An Efficient Approach for Web-Log Mining Using ART   S hantanu Sharma Computer Engineering National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra, Haryana, India to_shantanusharma@yahoo.com  Ma nish Varshney Computer Science and Engineering SSVIT Bareilly, UP, India to_manishvarshney@yahoo.com   Abst ract Information on the Web is growing dramatically Without a recommended system, the users may spend lots of time on the Web in finding th e information they are interested   th e W eb becomin g the mo s t  p o pula r media for collecting, sharing, and distributing inf ormation, it is very common for educational institutions, and organizations to develop Web-Based Training \(WBT\systems min in g in Web log known as Web-log mining or Web mining has been a hot spot of research work. Many Web mining methods based on association ru have b e en proposed. Data on the Web  is really unstructured, and implementation of association rule has some limitation. Overcome of these limitation can be done with neuro-fuzzy approach but without optimization. In this paper, we present a novel technique for Web-log mining using ART \(Adaptive Resonance Network\it with neuro-fuzzy approach  Keywords: ART \(Adaptive Resonance Network\, NeuroFuzzy, Web-log, Web-Mining, attention-subsystem, orienting subsystem, slow-learning, and fast-learning  I  I NTRO DUCTION  With the explosive development of Internet, data mining in Web log, which is called Web miningŽ, has been a hot spot of research work. The process of Web mining is to derive implied information of Web users behavior from huge Web data repositories W eb data usuall y exhi b i t s  the following characterist  the data  on t h e Web  is huge in amount, distributed, heterogeneous, unstructured and dynamic  Fig ure 1.  Basic Mining Techniques  W eb log mining belongs to Web usage mining, it discovers the mode of user visiting Web page by mining Web log, recognizes users faith degree, taste, satisfaction degree by analyzing the rules in the log, discovers potential users, enhances service compete capability of the Web site  h e r esul t s  of  Web log m ining can be applied to enhance Web services The main contribution of this paper is a Web-mining approach for Web-log analysis via introducing ART structure for huge, widely distributed, highly heterogeneous semi-structured, interconnected, evolving, hypertext information repository of World Wide Web. So, the Web sites automatically improve their organization and presentation by self-learning The paper is organized as follows: in Section 2, we describe previous work in field of Web-mining; in section 3 we discuss about Web-log; in section 4, we discuss about ART1 in detail with its algorithm flowchart, and proposed results; and finally in section 5, we focus on conclusion, and future-work II  P REV IOUS W OR K  Pr evious work in field of Web log mining is done using different techniques like simple search operation on Web log, clustering or categorization of Web log using some algorithms that organize information into groups based on similarity function or by using some predefined set of rules analyze the log \(discover knowledge\, and knowledge management The contribution of understanding Internet users behavior, and identification of relevant pattern is the benefit to predict, and prefetch Web object in Web cachin  intelligent Web caching architecture, capable of adapting its behavior on the basis of the access patterns of the client sheers. Such usage patterns, or models, are extracted from the historical access data recorded in log files, by means of data mining techniques Se m a nti c Web lo g m o del [3 SWLM based on ontologies to interpret properties of Web log, then computing the semantic distances of log concepts Hybrid Information Filtering Model [5 co llects u s er i n terest pages, constructs user interest model, and implements content-based filtering [5, 12 on the bas is of Web l o g  mining. Integer program [1 group s lo g r e gi s t er s f r o m  the same IP address, and ensuring the link structure of the site is followed in any constructed session. It does not construct the sessions one at a time but instead simultaneously constructs all sessions. Fuzzy Immunity Clonal Selection Neural Network [1  in which f uzzy associat i o n rule i s  extracted by the Immunity Clonal Selection Neural Network algorithm, after; rule set is applied on a dataset, and to 2010 International Conference on Education and Management Technology ICEMT 2010 196 97 8-1-4244-8618-2/10/$26.00  2010 IEEE 


evaluate working performance of the algorithm. The fuzzy multiset [12 i s adop ted t o ch ar acte r ize user s navi gation behavior, and to construct a multi fuzzy similar matrix to represent similarity between different users browsing behavior, which can reflect wholly the interest of Web user with the Web page-click rate, Web page viewing time, user's preference, and so on III  W EB L OG  A log from a Web server \(Web log\ contains records of users browsing activities, and is a potentially large source of data on customer preferences m po r tant i n f o r m at ion  of every sin gle ac ces s i s  r eco r ded as Web log entry by Web servers, including the URL requested, the source IP address, remote host name, log-name, user name, request status, bytes, and timestamp as   remote host remote hostname or IP address   log-name remote log-name of the user   user name user name with which the user has authenticated himself   date date, and time of the request   request exact request line as it came from the client   status HTTP status code returned to the client   bytes content-length of the document transferred Web mining techniques have been applied to extract usage patterns from Web log data. This process, known as Web usage mining, is traditionally performed in several st  to ac h ieve i ts goa l s  as  f o l l o w in g 1  Collection of Web data in an activity of recording Web-log in Web server 2  Preprocessing of Web data such as filtering crawlers requests, requests to graphics, and identifying unique sessions 3  Analysis of Web data is to discover interesting usage patterns or profiles 4  Interpretation/evaluation of the discovered profiles  Figure 2. Basic Structure of ART There are several general challenges [6 ass o ciated with  obtaining due results from the data. Firstly, extraneous information is mixed with useful one, for example log entries that record the request failures, page graphics, etc are irrelevant to our current analysis. Secondly, multiple server requests may be generated by a single user action Thirdly, multiple user actions may generate the same server request. Fourth, local activities \(for example browser navigation using back, and forward buttons\e not recorded IV  ART ART architecture models can self-organize in real time producing stable recognition while getting input patterns beyond those originally stored. ART is a family of different neural architectures. The most basic architecture is ART1 Carpenter, and Grossberg, 1987\ART1 can learn, and recognize binary patterns. ART2 \(Carpenter, and Grossberg 1987\ss of architectures categorizing arbitrary sequences of analog input patterns. ART is used in modeling such as invariant visual pattern recognition where biological equivalence is discussed in 1990 An ART system consists of two subsystems, an attention-subsystem and an orienting subsystem  fig. 2  The stabilization of learning, and activation occurs in the attention-subsystem by matching bottom-up input activation  and top-down expectation The orienting subsystem controls the attention-subsystem when a mismatch occurs in the attention-subsystem. In other words, the orienting subsystem works like a novelty detector A  Properties of ART An ART system has four basic properties 1  Self-scaling computational units The attentionsubsystem is based on competitive learning enhancing pattern features but suppressing noise 2  Self-adjusting memory search The system can search memory in parallel, and adaptively change its search order 3  Already learned patterns directly access their corresponding category 4  The system can adaptively ovulate attentional vigilance using the environment as a teacher. If the environment disapproves the current recognition of the system, it changes this parameter to be more vigilant B  ART-1 There are two models of ART-1, a slow-learning and a fast-learning one. The slow learning model is described by in terms of differential equations while the fast learning model uses the results of convergence in the slow learning model ART-1 is the first version of ART-based networks proposed by Carpenter, and Grossberg. The network was intended for unsupervised clustering of binary data. It has two major subsystems: attention-subsystem  and orienting subsystem. The attention-subsystem is a one layer neural network. It has D input neurons to learn D dimensional data and C output neurons to map C maximum clusters. Initially all output neurons are uncommitted. Once an output neuron 2010 International Conference on Education and Management Technology ICEMT 2010 197 


learned from a pattern, it becomes committed. The activation function is computed at all committed output neurons. The input, and output is connected by both topdown, and bottom-up weights C  Algorithm ART1 algorithm uses following parameters as    n number of components in the input vector   m: maximum number of clusters that can be formed   b ij bottom-up weights \(from F1\(b\ unit Xi to F2 unit Yj   t ji top-down weights \(from F2 unit Yj to F1 unit Xi    vigilance parameter   s: binary input vector \(an n-tuple   x: activation vector for F1 \(b\ layer \(binary   x: norm of vector x, defined as the sum of the components xi The algorithm of ART1 is as following  Step 0 Initialize parameters L > 1 0 <   1 Initialize weights 0 b ij 0\ < L / L- 1 + n t ji 0\1 Step 1 While stopping condition is false, do Steps 2-13 Step2. For each training input, do steps 3-12 Step 3. Set activation of all F2 units to zero Set activations of F 1 a\ units to input vector s Step 4. Compute the norm of s s s i  Step 5. Send input signal from F 1 a\e F 1 b layer X i  s i  Step 6. For each F2 node that is not inhibited If y j 1, then Y j  b ij  x i  Step 7. While reset is true, do step 8-11 Step 8. Find J such that y J  y j for all nodes j If y j 1, then all nodes are inhibited and this pattern                                                         can not be clustered Step 9. Recompute activation x of F 1 b X i  s i  t ji  Step 10. Compute the norm of vector x x =  x i  Step 11. Test for reset If x / s < , then Y j 1 \(inhibited node J If x / s  , then proceed to Step 12 Step 12. Update the weights for node j \(fast learning b ij new\L*x i L-1 + x t ji new i  Step 13. Test for stopping condition Algorithms parameters are initialized as following T ABLE 1  I NITIALIZATION OF A LGORITHM P ARAMETERS  Parameter Permissible Range Sample Value L L > 1  2  0 <   1  0.8 b i j  0 b i j 0\ < L / L … 1 + n  1 / 1 + n  t j i  t j i 0\= 1 1 D  Proposed Results If any Web-mining researches apply this ART1, then can easily obtained best result than any implemented Webmining techniques because of vigilance parameter, topdown, and bottom-up weights. This technique also generates clusters for all hours of a day \(fig. 4\, clusters for all days of a week, histogram analysis for hours-days within day-month respectively \(fig. 5 Also using ART, it is more beneficiary to minimize the number of steps in Web mining as compare to neuro-fuzzy approach. As neuro-fuzzy approach uses five major steps to produce the Web-usage pattern forecast, and Web-usage data analyzer; named Web-log data collection, data preprocessing, self-organizing map, Web-usage data cluster and fuzzy inference system \(fig. 6\t ART use only three steps as Web-log data collection, data preprocessing, and ART itself \(fig. 7  Figure 3. ART1 Algorithm   Figure 4. Hourly Analysis of Web-log using ART \(proposed 2010 International Conference on Education and Management Technology ICEMT 2010 198 


 Figure 5.  Histogram Hourly Analysis by ART \(proposed  V  C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE W ORK  Web log mining is the combination of Web technology and data mining technology. In this paper, we suggest adaptive analysis method for Web-log which helps in designing Web-sites, analysis human Web behavior Because of huge amount of Web-log, it is infeasible to classify them by hand, so by using ART model, we can analyze them in supervised learning Another variant of ART produces better result than this one. So, any one can pick this idea, and implement both, and can analyze their results. In future, ART can also be implemented with all previous techniques like semantic Web log, hybrid information filtering, fuzzy immunity clonal selection neural network, and fuzzy multiset to build Multi-pass ART, and provide more efficient result R EFERENCES  1  Sen Guo ,Yongsheng Liang , Zhili Zhang, and Wei Liu, Association Rule Retrieved from Web Log Based on Rough Set Theory,Ž Fourth International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery, 2007 2  Tsuyoshi Murata, and Kota Saito, Extracting Users' Interests from Web Log Data,Ž Proc. of IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference 2006 3  Chen Wu, Jun Dai, Qi-Feng Li, a nd Jun-Wu Zhu, A Semantic Clustering Algorithm Oriented to Web Log,Ž Proc. Fifth International Conference on Machine Learning a nd Cybernetics, Dalian, 13-16 August 2006, pp. 1566-1569 4  Yew-Kwong Woon, Wee-Keong, Ng Xiang Li, and Wen-Feng Lu Efficient Web Log Mining for Product Development,Ž Proce International Conference on Cyberworlds, 2003 5  Ling Yun, Wang Xun, and Gu Huamao, A Hybrid Information Filtering Algorithm Based on Distributed Web log Mining,Ž Third International Conference on Convergence and Hybrid Information Technology, 2008, pp. 1086-1091 6  Albert K W Wu, and C H Leung, Evaluating Learning Behavior of Web-Based Training \(WBT\using Web Log,Ž Proc. International Conference on Computers in Education, 2002 7  Areerat Songwattana, Mining Web logs for Prediction in Prefetching and Caching,Ž IEEE International Conference on Convergence and Hybrid Information Technology 2008, pp. 1006-1011  Figure 6. Neuro-Fuzzy Approach for Web Mining  Figure 7. Reduction of Stages on Neuro-Fuzzy after ART implementation  8  Francesco Bonchi, Fosca Giannotti, Giuseppe Manco, and Chiara Renso, Data Mining for Intelligent Web Caching,Ž 2001, pp. 599603 9  Zhang, Y., J.X. Yu, and J. Hou, Web Communities: Analysis and Construction,Ž Berlin Heidelberg, 2006 10  Zhenguo Chen, Web Log Mining Based On Fuzzy Immunity Clonal Selection Neural Net work,Ž IEEE 2007 11  Sutheera Puntheeranurak, and Hidekazu Tsuji, Mining Web logs for a Personalized Recommender Sys tem,Ž IEEE 2005, pp. 445-448 12  Suozhu Wang, Chunjie Xu, and Rui Wu, Clustering Method based on Fuzzy Multisets for Web Pages and Customer Segments,Ž Proc International Seminar on Business and Information Management 2008, pp.125-128 13  Robert F. Dell, Pablo E. Roman, and Juan D. Vel´asquez, Web User Session Reconstruction Using Integer Programming,Ž Proc IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence and Intelligent Agent Technology, 2008, pp. 385-388 14  J.D.Vel´asquez, and V. Palade, Adaptive Web Sites: A Knowledge Extraction from Web Data Approach,Ž IOS Press, Amsterdam, NL 2008 15  R. Cooley, B. Mobasher, and J. Srivastava, Web Mining Information and Pattern Discovery on the World Wide Web,Ž Proc Ninth IEEE International Conference Tools with AI, 1997, pp. 558567  2010 International Conference on Education and Management Technology ICEMT 2010 199 


 Fuzzy pattern cluster scheme for Breast  cancer datasets  414  VII   C ONCLUSION A ND F UTURE D IRECTION  Data clustering is a time consuming and complex task for large data sets. Transaction relationship is used in the pattern extraction and clustering process. This concept is applied in the simultaneous pattern extraction and clustering scheme The pattern extraction is carried out and clustering process is performed with the pattern relationship. Distance measure is the important issue in the clustering process. In the integrated system the distance measure is estimated for the patterns and transaction transfer process is done with the actual transactions The simultaneous pattern extraction and clustering system is implemented to cluster the breast cancer patient diagnosis records. The symptom details are collected from the UCI machine-learning repository. The system is tested with 1000 records in the interval of 200 records. The redundant records removal and incomple te records are correction operations are performed in the preprocessing stage. Pattern extraction, data clustering, pattern clustering and simultaneous clustering operations are tested. The pattern extraction is performed with different support and confidence level The system uses three metrics to analyze the performance of the simultaneous clustering scheme. They are memory, process time and fitness point. The simultaneous clustering scheme requires 40% more memory than the dataclustering scheme. The process time reduced 25% than the data clustering process. The fitness values show that the simultaneous clustering scheme produces more accurate clustering than data clustering scheme The simultaneous pattern extraction and clustering system is implemented to perform the clustering process in minimum time period. The association rule mining techniques are used to fetch frequent items. The pattern extraction process uses the frequent items. The data-clustering scheme is integrated with the pattern clustering mechanism. The system uses the patient diagnosis report for the testing process. The system can be enhanced with the following features: The integrated pattern extraction and clustering scheme is implemented with the K-Means clustering algorithm. The genetic algorithm can be used in the future development. The system can be enhanced to perform the pattern extraction and clustering process on image data collections. The current system is implemented as a stand-alone application. The simultaneous clustering algorithm can be updated for distributed environment R EFERENCES  1  Arun K.Pujari Data mining Techniques University Press, First Edition, 2001 2  Barry Devlin Data Warehouse Architecture to Implementation Addison-Wesley publications, 1997 3  Diana Lorentz Oracle 9i SQL reference Oracle Corporation, 2001 4  Tom Chau and Andrew K.C Pattern Discovery by by Residual Analysis and Recursive Partitioning IEEE 1999 5  Imielinski, T. Virmani, A. Abdoulghani, A. Datamine Application Programming Interface and Query Language for Database mining KDD-1996 6  Andrew K.C. Wong, Fellow, IEEE, and Gary C.L. Li Simultaneous Pattern and Data Clustering for Pattern Cluster Analysis IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data  Engineering, vol. 20, no. 7, July 2008 7  D. Chiu and A.K.C. Wong Multiple Pattern Associations for Interpreting Structural and Functional Characteristics of Biomolecules Information Science, vol. 167, nos. 1-4, pp. 23-29, 2004 8  Yang Wang High-Order Pattern Discovery and Analysis of DiscreteValued Data Sets presented to the University of Waterloo Canada 1997 9  Wai-Ho Au, Keith C.C. Chan Attribute Clustering for Grouping Selection, and Classification of Gene Expression Data IEEE 2005     Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques Kaufmann Publishers, 2001 A UTHORS B IOGRAPHY  D. Vanisri  has  received the Master of  Science in Mathematics in 2001 from Madurai Kamaraj University Then she completed her Master of Philosophy in Mathematics in the year 2003. She has presented many papers in national and international conferences and also guided many UG projects. She has published a paper in international journal. Now she is doing research in the field of Fuzzy clustering and rule mining at Mother Terasa Women’s University, Kodaikannal. Currently she is working as a Lecturer in the Department of Computer Technology and Applications, Kongu Engineerring College, Tamilnadu  Dr.C.Loganathan qualified basically with B.Sc and M.Sc in Mathematics in 1978 and 1980 respectively from Madras University and subsequently with M.Phil and Ph.D in Mathematics from Bharathiar University has served in various capacities as faculty member and Head of the Department of Mathematics at Kongu Engineering College, Perundurai for more than a decade. He is at present working as Principal, Maharaja Arts and Science College, Coimbatore. His unquenchable thirst for academic achievements had culminated in the publication of series of research papers, numbering more than 12 in the leading-referred national and international journals. As a research guide, he has produced many M.Phil and Ph.D candidates. He is a reviewer of many referred international journals. His areas of interest encompass Applied Mathematics, Control Theory, Numerical Methods Quantitative Techniques and Neural Networks. He has co-authored the books on “Quantitative Methods in Management, Engineering Mathematics I and Engineering Mathematics II      


 83 85 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 Classification Accuracy Coverage threshold The highest accuracy \(Confidence, conviction, Lift, CF Laplace Support   PS   All-confidence   Cosine    2 value   Confidence, conviction, Lift, CF   a Training accuracy 77 79 81 83 85 87 89 91 93 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 Classification Accuracy Coverage threshold The highest accuracy \(Laplace Laplace Support   PS   All-confidence   Cosine    2 value   Confidence, Conviction, Lift, CF   b Testing accuracy Fig 3 The classi“cation accuracies using different interestingness measures with N f  300  various measures and select the most appropriate measure leading to the increase of the classi“cation accuracy R EFERENCES  R Agra w al T  Imielinski and A Sw ami Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases In Proc of the ACM SIGMOD Intl Conf on Management of Data  pp 207-216 1993  B Liu W  Hsu and Y  Ma Inte grating Classi“cation and Association Rule Mining In Proc of the ACM Intl Conf on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  pp 80-86 1998  P  T an V  K umar and J Sri v asta v a  Selecting the Right Interestingness Measure for Association Patterns In Proc of the ACM Intl Conf on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  pp 32-41 2002  P  Lenca P  Me yer  B  V aillant and S Lallich On Selecting Inter estingness Measures for Association Rules User Oriented Description and Multiple Criteria Decision Aid European Journal of Operational Research  No 184 pp 610-626 2008  T  Eguchi K Hirasa w a  J  H u and N Ota A Study of Ev olutionary Multiagent Models Based on Symbiosis IEEE Trans on Systems Man and Cybernetics  Part B Vol.36 No.1 pp 179-193 2006  S Mab u K Hirasa w a and J Hu A Graph-Based Ev olutionary Algorithm Genetic Network Programming GNP and Its Extension Using Reinforcement Learning Evolutionary Computation  MIT Press Vol.15 No.3 pp 369-398 2007  K Hirasa w a  T  Eguchi J Zhou L Y u and S Mark on A DoubleDeck Elevator Group Supervisory Control System Using Genetic Network Programming IEEE Trans on Systems Man and Cybernetics PartC Vol.38 No.4 pp 535-550 2008  X Li S Mab u H Zhou K Shimada and K Hirasa w a   Genetic Network Programming with Estimation of Distribution Algorithms and its Application to Association Rule Mining for Traf“c Prediction In Proc of the ICROS-SICE Intl Conf  pp 3457-3462 2009  X Li S Mab u H Zhou K Shimada and K Hirasa w a   Genetic Network Programming with Estimation of Distribution Algorithms for Class Association Rule Mining in Traf“c Prediction to appear in Proc of the IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation CEC 2010  Barcelona Spain 2010  X Li S Mab u H Zhou K Shimada and K Hirasa w a   Genetic Network Programming with Estimation of Distribution Algorithms for Class Association Rule Mining in Traf“c Prediction to appear in Journal of Advanced Computational Intelligence and Intelligent Informatics  Vol 14 No 6 2010  R Agra w a l a nd R Srikant F ast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Large Databases In Proc of the 20th VLDB Conf  pp 487499 1999  N P a squier  Y  B astide R T a ouil and L Lakhal Disco v e ring frequent closed itemsets for association rules In Proc of Intl Conf on Database Theory  pp 398-416 1999  P  T a n a nd V  K u mar  Interestingness Measures for Association P atterns A perspective In Proc of KDD 2000 Workshop on Postprocessing in Machine Learning and Data Mining  2000  R J Bayardo and R Agra w al Mining the Most Interesting Rules In Proc of the ACM Intl Conf on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  pp 145-154 1999  I J Good The Estimation of Probabilities An Essay on Modern Bayesian Methods MIT Press 1965  P  Clark and R Boswell Rule Induction with cn2 Some recent improvements In Proc of the European Working Session on Learning  pp 151-163 1991  S Brin R Motw ani J D Ullman and S Tsur  Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data In Proc of ACM SIGMOD Intl Conf on Management of Data  pp 255-264 1997  G Piatetsk y-Shapiro Disco v e ry  A nalysis and Presentation of Strong Rules Knowledge Discovery in Databases  pp 229-248 MIT Press 1991  S Brin R Motw ani and C Silv erstein Be yond Mark et Bask ets Generalizing Association Rules to Correlations In Proc of the ACM SIGMOD Intl Conf on Management of Data  pp 265-276 1997  C Silv erstein S Brin and R Motw ani Be yond Mark et Bask ets Generalizing Association Rules to Dependence Rules Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  Vol 2 No 1 pp 39-68 1998  E Shortlif fe and B Buchanan A Model of Ine xact Reasoning in Medicine Mathematical Biosciences  Vol 23 pp 351-379 1975  E Omiecinski Alternati v e Interest Measures for Mining Associations IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 15 No 1 pp 57-69 2003  A Agresti Cate gorical Data Analysis John W ile y  Sons 1990 1974 


Capacity for analysis and synthesisŽ, Research skills Capacity to learn 4   Interpersonal skills LeadershipŽ, Interpersonal skillsŽ, Ability to communicate with non-expertsŽ, Oral and written communications in native languageŽ, Critical and self-critical capabilityŽ, Teamworking 5   Personal skills Ability to work autonomously Problem solvingŽ, Capacity to adapt to new situations Knowledge of a second languageŽ, Concern for qualityŽ, Will to succeedŽ, Elementary computing skillsŽ, Capacity for applying knowledge in practice Decision makingŽ, Project design and management Information management skills Table 7 shows the mean importance of each gr oup of competences by stakeholder group for the First Cycle Degree respondents. For the employers the personal skills are the most importance group followed by professional skills and interpersonal skills. The table confirms that employers rank internationalisation and entrepreneurship lowest. Academics agree with the order of the competence groups but rate all of them more strongly important than employers. Students also rank the competence groups in the same order but rate internationalisation slightly higher than employers and entrepreneurship very slightly lower Analysis of the level of development of the competenceas shows that there is good agreement that Professional skills are the best developed of the skill groups followed by Personal skills and Interpersonal skills. As with importance the Entrepreneurship and Internationalisation skill groups are developed the least. There is clearly a difference between the rated importance and level of development of these groups in that the Personal skills group is rated most important but the Professional skills group is developed the most. Other than that the general structure of the supply demand balance of the generic competences is quite well aligned V  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  The objective of this study was to apply the Tuning Methodology to the EIE discipline set to test the alignment between the views of the importance and level of development of sets of competences between students, academics and employers. The results of this study show that the Tuning Methodology is a useful tool for assessing alignment in these subjects  TABLE VII  MEAN IMPORTANCE OF EACH GROUP BY STAKEHOLDER  Competence Group Academic Employer Student Internationalization 2.86 2.63 2.79 Entrepreneurship 3.07 3.05 3.02 Interpersonal skills 3.23 3.09 3.06 Professional skills 3.36 3.29 3.13 Personal skills 3.44 3.30 3.29  In total 3,275 questionnaires have been collected from the stakeholder groups from a range of European countries. The number of responses from each c ountry is variable and a full by country analysis is not possible with the responses currently available, that said a range of analyses have been carried out Tests of the homogeneity of the responses across all countries show that there are country differences in some analyses and some of these are explored, others merit further investigation. Many of the analyses presented in this paper are aggregated results and therefore potentially suffer clustering problems. This too is a topic of further investigation The following is a summary of the key conclusions drawn from the analyses presented Consistent top of importance of the generic competences for all stakeholders is Problem solvingŽ. Second in the ranking for students is Elementary computing skillsŽ. Comparatively students under rate the importance of this skill, perhaps it is taken for granted in students than in academics and employers The results show employers value it more than students and this message could be communicated to students A number of gaps exist between the importance and level of development between the stakeholders. The largest gap is Knowledge of a second languageŽ and the evidence from the languages section suggests this view is strongly aimed at English The generic competences group into 5 sets with Personal skillsŽ rated consistently as the most important set. This is followed, in descending order of importance, by Professional skillsŽ, Interpersonal skillsŽ, InternationalisationŽ and EntrepreneurshipŽ. The smallest mean Internationalisation is just over midway between weakŽ and considerableŽ. Given the European Unions desire to see greater student and employee mobility across Europe, it is clear there is scope for scope for improvement in the value placed in this skill set by curriculum designers Curriculum designers and academics can take comfort in the finding that Professional skillsŽ are the best developed of the skill gr oups followed by Personal sk illsŽ and Interpersonal skillsŽ. This not only aligns with the views of employers but aligns with anecdotal evidence on the real purpose of EIE education programmes. That said there is a trend in a number of countries across Europe away from large firm employment towards a Small to Medium Sized Enterprise culture. Curriculum designers may wish to reflect on the fact that entrepreneurial skills are very low in the list and perhaps merit more attention and emphasis in the curricula In general the different stakeholders rate the importance and level of development on average differently. This difference has been taken into account in the conclusions drawn. The general unevenness in ranking reflects different perspectives and is, in itself not considered a major issue, of concern are the relative positions of competences and the relative gaps. In general and even allowing for this employers and academics tend to rate competences higher in importance than students and graduates a number of specific instances of differences are drawn out in section 8 73 


After the text edit has been completed, the paper is ready for the template. Duplicate the template file by using the Save As command, and use the naming convention prescribed by your conference for the name of your paper. In this newly created file, highlight all of the contents and import your prepared text file. You are now ready to style your paper; use the scroll down window on the left of the MS Word Formatting toolbar A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The authors acknowledge the funding provided by the European Union for this project and to the members of the project team for help in collecting questionnaires R EFERENCES   1  European Association for Education in Electrical and Information Enginering http://www.eaeeie.org  2  EIE-Surveyor project http://www.eie-surveyor.org  3  Tuning Report http://tuning.unideusto.org/tuningeu/index.php?option=content&task=vi ew&id=172&Itemid=205  4  Overview of the Bologna Process … Implementation in Europe in Electrical and Informaiton EngineetringŽ, ISBN 2-9516740-3-1, pp 542  74 


              


   


                        





