1  Abstract Warehouse management plays an important role in every manufacturing company. The inventory provides a buffer for the production plants. The Put-away process is one of the key activities in warehouse operations and has a significant impact on the overall performance of the warehouse. The put-away operation, if done effectively by the warehouse operators, helps the production plant to run smoothly. Warehouse management systems \(WMS\ assist the warehouse operators in managing the warehouse. However, the current WMS cannot fulfill the individual warehouse objectives. Due to this drawback warehouse operators have to rely solely on their knowledge and experience when doing the put-away process. As human beings are involved in the operation, mistakes and inconsistency cannot be avoided. Hence, as described in this paper, a RFID-based fuzzy storage assignment system \(R-FSAS\ has been developed to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of the put-away process by means of formulating feasible and tailor-made storage plans for products coming into a warehouse. Through using R-FSAS real-time warehouse operations are monitored by Radio Frequency Identification \(RFID\ technology, and a hybrid fuzzy association rule engine is adopted to formulate different storage plans. By applying R-FSAS in a manufacturing company, the overall results illustrate that R-FSAS enhances the efficiency of the put-away process in a warehouse Index Terms Warehouse Management; Put-away Operation RFID; Fuzzy Association Rule I I NTRODUCTION anaging the supply chain is one of the most complex and challenging processes in this global business world. The main objective of managing the complex supply chain is to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of processes in the chain so that the entire system can be cost effective and Manuscript received June 17, 2010. This work was supported by the Research Office of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University G. T. S. Ho is with the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong email: mfgeorge@inet.polyu.edu.hk K. L. Choy is with the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong corresponding author e-mail: mfklchoy@inet.polyu.edu.hk T. C. Poon is with the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong e-mail: 05902101r@polyu.edu.hk efficient. In the supply chain, a warehouse, which holds and stores goods, is an essential component for linking the chain partners. Warehousing provides a time and place utility for raw materials, work in process inventories and finished products According i cie n t perform a n ce of th e  w a reh o u s e i s on e  of the key success factors that help enterprises to maintain their competitive advantage. In order to provide high quality customer service and low cost operations, effective and efficient warehouse operations are necessary. This paper focuses on the Storage Location Assignment Problem \(SLAP of the put-away process in a warehouse. The SLA problem is how to assign incoming products to storage locations in storage departments/zones in such a way as to reduce material handling costs and improve space utilization [1 T h is is o n e o f th e m o st critical activities in warehouse operations. Without achieving optimal space utilization and low material handling costs, the warehouse operation will be hindered and the cost will be higher than necessary There are many different storage location assignment policies such as random, class-based, and dedicated storage, applied in current industrial practice. However, the current storage location assignment policies are incapable of providing timely and accurate decision support for the put-away process. This is because the policies rely heavily on warehouse operators knowledge and experience to formulate the policies manually As human error is inevitable, the manual process may lead to long put-away operation time and inaccuracy in assigning the SKUs to the right storage location B e sides, th ere are n o t many warehouse management systems \(WMS\ that support intelligent slotting \(storage location selection\ on the market  T h eref ore, a s y s t e m  w i t h realt i m e a n d au to m a tic d a ta retrieval features for the storage location assignment policies is badly needed Described in this paper is a RFID-based fuzzy storage assignment system \(R-FSAS\ that has been developed for solving the storage location assignment problem. The R-FSAS consists of three components. They are:- i\adio Frequency Identification \(RFID\nology in Data Collection Module DCM\uzzy Association Rule Extraction Algorithm FAREA\n the Storage Location Assignment Module SLAM\d iii\zzy Association Rule Container Module FARCM\he DCM visualizes the actual operation status in a warehouse. The captured information is stored in a centralized database and the aim of SLAM is to formulate feasible storage Providing decision support functionality in warehouse management using the RFID-based fuzzy association rule mining approach G. T. S. Ho, K. L. Choy, T. C. Poon M  


2 plans for incoming products. All the extracted fuzzy association rules from SLAM are then stored in the FARCM for further use. In this way, the objective of maximizing the efficiency of the put-away process is achieved This paper is divided into six sections. Section 1 is the introduction. Related studies are reviewed in Section 2. The design methodology of R-FSAS is illustrated in Section 3 while a case study in Curtain Products Manufacturing Limited is demonstrated in Section 4. Section 5 contains the results and a discussion of the findings. Finally, a conclusion about the use of the R-FSAS is drawn in Section 6 II L ITERATURE R EVIEW 2.1 Storage Location Assignment Problem \(SLAP According e S L A problem  is  h o w to ass i g n i n co ming  products to appropriate storage locations with minimum material handling cost and optimal space utilization. Storage affects the performance of the warehouse operation such as material handling cost, space utilization, and operating productivity. Many researchers suggest different approaches to solve the SLAP pro pos ed th e cu bep er o rder in dex C OI policy to minimize the long term order picking costs. COI is expressed as the ratio of storage space required \(cube\ SKU to the popularity \(frequency of storage or retrieval requests for the SKU\he COI policy ranks the SKUs from low to high The SKUs with the lowest COI are assigned to the lowest retrieval and storage cost storage addresses e ri f i ed t h at t h e  COI policy is optimal in minimizing the material handling costs in put-away strategy when these particular assumptions are met i.e. i\e objective is to minimize the long-term average order picking costs; ii\e travelling cost is dependent only on locations; iii\when dual command order picking is used, there is no dependence between the picked items in the same picking tour; iv\ routing policies are assumed for dual command order picking; and v\ the compatibility constraints would affect the storage location assignment. In addition, a computerized warehouse management system \(WMS\ is suggested, in order to facilitate the storage location assignment process. According to [6 e W M S sh o u ld b e ab le to 1  h e lp to an ticip ate t h e  problem areas, and major change in activity levels and patterns 2\onitor warehouse performance such as productivity inventory accuracy, storage density, and order cycle time; 3 simplify and smoothen warehouse operations by reliably optimizing and communicating transactions between warehouse operators and equipment; 4\ manage the inventory and material flows; 5\ide appropriate warehouse conditions \(temperature and humidity\trol and security access control\d 6\ for flexible groupings. However 7 po i n t e d o u t t h a t  v e r y  fe w  w a r e ho use  ma na ge me nt s y st e m s  and very few warehouses have the data, let alone the engineering and computer support to intelligently slot the warehouse and to keep the slotting aligned with the current warehouse activity profile.” Thus, additional technologies are necessary to assist the WMS or the warehouse operators to access the required qualitative data for the put-away process. In this paper, radio frequency identification \(RFID\ology and a fuzzy logic are proposed as being useful for solving the SLAP 2.2 Radio Frequency Identification \(RFID RFID is an automatic data capturing and searching technology which consists of an integrated circuit chip and an antenna. It is able to send, process, and store information by transmitting radio waves either from or to the RFID reader and antenna in a real-time mann e barcode techn o logy  R F ID technology is able to identify products at the item level, read without line of sight to the reader and operate in harsh environments such as under dirty, dusty and moist conditions 10   T h eref o r e, m a n y en terp r ises w o u l d lik e to th is tec h n o lo g y  in their own business as no line-of-sight on the tags is required even though it is much more expensive than barcode technology. This technology has been widely adopted in different business operations to identify, locate and track people, animals or assets. [11 u tilized RFID tech n o lo g y a n d  artificial intelligence technologies to collect dynamic and static logistics data in order to facilitate warehouse operations. [12  suggested implanting RFID tags into human teeth for human identification purposes s u g g e s t ed th e us e of RF ID to  capture the status of the mould while it is being manufactured 2.3 Fuzzy Logic and Fuzzy Association Rule Mining Data Mining \(DM\volves selecting, exploring, modeling and analyzing data in huge databases with an objective to uncover previously unknown yet useful associations, patterns and knowledge [14  Fuzzy set theory provides the mechanism for carrying out approximate reasoning processes when available information is uncertain, incomplete, imprecise, or vagu zz y s e ts d eal with the type of uncertainty that arises when the boundaries of a class of objects are not sharply defined and cope with the concept of “partial truth’, which can compensate for the deficiencies of classical mathematical models zzy lo g i c  enables the qualitative and inexact nature of human reasoning to be harnesse t ated t h at t h e u s e of  fu zz y log i c  w h ich  reflects the qualitative and inexact nature of human reasoning can enable expert systems to be more resilient. With fuzzy logic, the precise value of a variable is replaced by a linguistic description the meaning of which is represented by a fuzzy set Fuzzy logic is able to incor porate the human knowledge in system  s ed th e f u z z y log i c to s o lv e t h e dis t ribu ti on network reconfiguration problem t ated th a t  f u zz y lo gic can be used to solve the problems related to decision making with the aim of optimizing one or more objectives. Thus, this has proven that fuzzy logic can be used to meet the multi-objectives of put-away activity in warehouse operations Fuzzy Association Rule Mining \(Fuzzy AR-Mining\ is an even more powerful DM technique which is an integration of Fuzzy Sets and AR-Mining. It is practical to the real world applications as it can deal with fuzzy taxonomies which are characterized with vagueness Du e to th e g r eat ben e fits  brought by Fuzzy AR-Mining, it is widely applied in various areas such as business sector to boost profits a v e  proposed a process mining system using Fuzzy AR-Mining aims at discovering the hidden relationships in a supply chain network to support continuous quality improvement that allows greater customer satisfaction a v e pu t o u t an alg orit hm for discovering fuzzy periodic association rules in fuzzy periodic  


3 calendars. Internet providers may benefit by better understanding periodic client access behaviors and hence offer better services to them III M ETHODOLOGY When there are SKUs that need to be stored, the warehouse operators have to make a decision based on the Put-away Decision Tree on where the SKUs should be put. The Put-away Decision Tree consists of 4 major layers as shown in Figure 1  This means that the warehouse operators would have to go through the 4 layers before the location decision can be successfully made. The decision tree starts from the top with selection of the warehouse followed by selection of the storage zone, then the storage location and finally reaching the bottom layer, namely the tier selection. All these decisions are based on the operators’ knowledge and experience. Therefore, the put-away process is quite inefficient and time-consuming while the decisions are rather subjective and inconsistent, that is different operators may make different storage location decisions for the same SKU. Apart from this, as the put-away process relies heavily on manual operation, the operators responsible for such decision making would normally have to stick to the same task which leads to inflexible scheduling of operators and warehouse management Figure 1 - Put-away Decision Tree In order to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the put-away process, the RFID-based fuzzy storage assignment system \(R-FSAS\ is proposed Figure 2 illustrates the system architecture of R-FSAS. With this new system, the necessary data is collected and analyzed to extract the experts’ knowledge involved in the put-away process. Once the knowledge is extracted, it is stored in the form of fuzzy association rules These rules help determine a suitable storage location for the incoming SKU. Faster and more efficient storage location decisions can then be made without much human intervention The R-FSAS consists of three components which make this possible, namely \(i\llection Module, \(ii\rage Location Analysis Module \(SLAM\d \(iii\zzy Association Rule Container Module Figure 2 - System Architecture of R-FSAS i\llection Module To automate the put-away process, certain data must be first collected to analyze the hidden rules used to make such storage location assignment decisions. Data such as the features of the SKUs to be stored and their assigned storage locations are some of the necessary data which have to be collected beforehand Some examples of SKU features are their dimensions, weights loading values and popularity. All these are important in order to find out the relationship between the SKU features and the assigned storage location This data collection process is very time-consuming and error-inducing if it is done manually, so in order to facilitate this tedious process, RFID is introduced to help. With RFID technology, each SKU has a RFID tag attached to it which contains all the necessary information related to the corresponding SKU. When the SKUs arrive, their information can be easily collected as they pass through the gate where their RFID tags are scanned automatically. Apart from facilitating this data collection process, this procedure is also useful to the proposed automated put-away process as the details of each SKU are known before a suitable storage location is generated for it ii Storage Location Analysis Module \(SLAM After all necessary data are collected and stored; they are passed to the Storage Location Analysis Module \(SLAM\he SLAM is equipped with a Fuzzy Association Rule Extraction Algorithm \(FAREA\which helps analyze the data collected and extracts the hidden rules linking the SKU features and SKU storage location. The notation and the mechanism of FAREA  


4 are shown in Figure 4 and Figure 5 respectively Figure 4 – The Notation of FARCA The SLAM represents the extracted rules in the form of fuzzy association rules where the “IF” condition would be something about the SKU features while the “THEN” result would be something about the assigned storage location as shown in Figure 6  Figure 5 - Mechanism of FAREA iii Fuzzy Association Rule Container Module After the collected data have gone through the SLAM, a set of fuzzy association rules giving directions on how SKUs should be assigned to their storage locations is generated. These extracted fuzzy association rules are then stored in the Fuzzy Association Rule Container waiting to be used. The whole process above is repeated and looped before a set of comprehensive and practical rules can be generated and put into practice. However, once this is all done, the put-away process will no longer require labor to make the storage location assignment decisions. The whole process will be done automatically from passing the SKUs through the RFID gate, to reading the attached RFID tags, to generating their assigned storage locations. The put-away process can thus be enhanced in terms of its efficiency and accuracy  


5 Sample Fuzzy Rule 1 IF  Popularity is high AND Turnover is high AND Cube Movement is NOT low AND Pick Density is high THEN Golden zone is for the SKU  Sample Fuzzy Rule 2 IF Popularity is medium AND Turnover is medium AND Cube Movement is medium AND Pick Density is NOT medium THEN Silver zone is for the SKU Sample Fuzzy Rule 3 IF Popularity is low AND Turnover is low AND Cube Movement is NOT high AND Pick Density is low THEN Bronze zone is for the SKU Sample Fuzzy Rule 4 IF Loading height is low AND Loading length is short AND Loading width is short AND Loading weight is very low AND Loading cube is low AND Loading value is very low THEN Tier 4 is for the SKU Figure 6 - Sample of the Extracted Fuzzy Rule Sets IV CASE S TUDY Curtain Products Manufacturing Limited is a China based manufacturer. It provides multi-categories of products, such as window fashions, indoor and outdoor furniture, industrial tooling, machinery, and industrial components. Besides, it also provides industrial solutions to customers. It is set up with a highly vertical integration capability and is capable of undertaking product design, all kinds of tooling, plastic injection molding, aluminum extrusion, stamping, and wood based production. In addition, it has different kinds of surfacing capability such as powder coating, aluminum anodizing electrical plating, and lacquering. The size of the manufacturing plant is up to 45,000 m 2 and it employs around 500 skilled workers. Its total annual revenue is currently more than US$13 million. The company vision is to provide clients with valuable products and services at competitive cost and with a high degree of efficiency In the case company, there is a warehouse which stores the raw materials and semi-finished products. However, there is no computerized system in the warehouse to keep track of the SKUs. The warehouse operators pick up and store the SKUs according to their experience and daily practice. They may have difficulty in identifying the correct storage location for the incoming SKUs. Also, it takes the warehouse operators a long time to find and pick up the SKUs from the storage location and take them to the production plant. Thus, the put-away operation is inefficient. Customers require high quality products and a short lead time. The inefficient warehouse operation will disappoint customers since it may delay the delivery of the raw materials and semi-finished products to the production plants and cause interruptions to the production process Existing Workflow of the case company Figure 7 shows the current practice of handling the incoming SKUs in the case company. The current practice of handling the incoming SKUs starts with receiving the raw materials from suppliers. The supplier has to submit the delivery note to the warehouse manager and the manager will see whether the raw materials are required urgently such as in a case of emergency If those raw materials are needed urgently for production, they are delivered to the production material preparation area for temporary storage. If the need is not so urgent, then the raw materials will be delivered to the warehouse. Warehouse operators needs to check the quantity of the purchase order with what is written on the delivery note and then check the quality of the materials. When the materials do not pass the quality inspection, they are returned to the supplier. If the materials pass the quality inspection, the quantity of materials are checked by the warehouse operators. Any mistake in the quantity of materials ordered is reported to the purchasing department. If the quantity of materials is correct, the urgently needed materials are delivered to production plants immediately and those that are not so urgently needed are stored in the storage location. The warehouse manager has to decide where to store the incoming raw materials. Finally, the warehouse operators record the storage data Beside raw materials, semi-finished products are also stored in the same warehouse so as to achieve the benefits of mass production and avoid delay in the production process. The warehouse operators deliver the semi-finished products from the production plants to the warehouse. Then they check the quality and quantity of those semi-finished products. If all of them are correct, they are stored in a storage location and warehouse operators record the storage data. Otherwise, the semi-finished products are transferred back to the production plants. The warehouse manager also needs to decide where to store these semi-finished products The current practice of the case company is that the warehouse manager decides all the SLAP decisions based on his experience. When the storage location is found, the warehouse operators put the SKUs in that location and store them. The storage data are recorded by hand using a pen 


6 Figure 7 - Workflow of incoming SKUs in the case company In the storage location selection process, the physical parameters such as the dimensions, weight and product value of SKU Figure 8 play the dominant role. When the information of these parameters is available, the put-away decision can be made appropriately. However, assigning the incoming SKUs to the storage location in the warehouse is complicated as several factors are affect the put-away decision. The major issue is the material handling cost which depends on the travelling distance between the storage location and the entrance to the warehouse One of the objectives in warehouse management is to minimize the material handling cost i.e. to shorten the distance that SKUs have to be moved. Activities associated with the SKUs activities include popularity \(frequency of demand\rnover cube movement, and pick density, significantly influence the total material handling cost in the warehouse. For example when the SKUs have a high popularity, they should be stored in the most accessible zone in order to reduce the travelling distance and time. Therefore, the warehouse manager has to capture all the parameters of SKU activities and use his knowledge and experience to complete the task in an efficient way In selecting the tier level when placing pallets on racks for storing the incoming SKUs, the objective in this task is to minimize the damage and loss of the SKUs during the put-away and storage process. The safety of the warehouse operators is also important. They may easily get injured when they put a heavy item on a high level tier. In warehouse practice, storing the heavier SKUs in the higher tiers of the pallet racks makes it easier for damage to occur during the put-away process. The more expensive the SKUs, the greater the loss to the company if any damage is caused. Therefore, the warehouse manager needs to consider the weight and value of the SKUs when making the put-away decisions From the above problems and current practice of the case company, quality storage data are necessary in SLAP. However there is no advanced IT system in the company such as the WMS, vendor managed inventory \(VMI\terprise resource planning \(ERP\ystems. Data cannot be transmitted from one department to another. Warehouse managers cannot access the quality data from other departments. Hence, a central data warehouse is needed in the company Figure 8 - Some Examples of Parameters in the SLAP Experiment of R-FSAS In order to demonstrate the flexibility of the proposed methodology, a supplier delivery order is chosen and inputted into the R-FSAS. It is assumed that the purchasing department has ordered the raw materials from a supplier. The warehouse department receives the delivery order from the supplier. The no. of delivery order is 10032911. After the purchasing department enters the relevant data into the database by using RFID technology, the warehouse operators have to start to go through the procedure shown on the put-away decision tree. The warehouse operators can access the decision support data with the help of the Fuzzy Association Rule Container Module. They can get the critical information by selecting the storage location for that particular SKU, such as the loading length, loading width, loading height, loading weight and loading cube for that delivery order from the supplier Besides this, the warehouse operators can also view the decision support data including popularity, turnover, cube movement, pick density of the SKU for the storage location selection. These decision support data help the warehouse operators to select the most appropriate location \(golden zone silver zone or bronze zone\n order to select the tier level for the SKU, the warehouse operators have to know the loading height, loading length, loading width, loading weight , loading cube and loading value of that delivery order. These decision support data help the staff to choose the best tier level \(T1, T2 T3 or T4  


7 The fuzzy association rules extracted from the historical data will be stored in the Fuzzy Association Rule Container Module and used to suggest the put-away decisions for the case company. In the put-away decision, the fuzzy outputs need to be generated, i.e. storage location \(golden, silver or bronze zone and tier level \(tier 1, 2, 3 or 4\The parameters required to perform the put-away process are popularity, turnover, cube movement, pick density, loading height, loading length loading width, loading weight, loading cube and loading value The warehouse operators have to input these parameters into the fuzzy system to find out the best storage location and most suitable tier level for the delivery order V C ONCLUSION This research has proposed a hybrid technique that enjoys the advantages of RFID, fuzzy sets and association rule extraction to provide decision support functionality for improved warehouse management. The developed methodology is able to discover the hidden knowledge and in turn help with the strategic decision making process for solving storage location assignment problems. It also provides a way for firms to better understand the changing business landscape, while the main objective is to assist companies to achieve greater operational efficiency, more efficient managerial arrangements, greater end customer satisfaction and most importantly, superior overall company performance However, the disadvantage is that the proposed methodology may need much computational time to perform the tasks and a sound data collection and integration system has to be developed before the system can be implemented A CKNOWLEDGMENT The authors wish to thank the Research Office of The Hong Kong Polytechnic University for supporting the project R EFERENCES 1 G u J. X G o e t schal c kx  M a n d McG i n n is L  F   2 0 0 7    Re se ar ch o n  warehouse operation: A comprehensive review European Journal of Operational Research 177 1 – 21 2 xt on  J B   T h oma s  E  J a n d H e lmr e i c h  R  L  20 00  E rror s t re ss a nd teamwork in medicine and aviation: cross sectional surveys BMJ 320 745 749 3 L a m  C  H  Y   C h u n g  S  H   L e e  C  K   M   H o  G  T  S  a n d Y i p  T  K  T   2009\. Development of and OLAP Based Fuzzy Logic System for Supporting Put Away Decision International Journal of Engineering Business Management 1 55 – 60 4 e s k e t t, J  L   1 9 63 C ube p e r o r d e r inde x a ke y to  w a r e ho us e s t o c k  location Transportation and Distribution Management 3 27 – 31 5 a l l i na C. a n d L y nn, J   1 9 7 6    A ppl icat io n o f t h e Cu be p e r o r d e r  I n de x  Rule for Stock Location in a Distribution Warehouse Interfaces 7 37 – 46 6 o m p e l M. T   2 00 7 W a r e ho us e m a nag e m e nt a u to m a tio n an d  organization of warehouse and picking systems Berlin: Springer  7 F r az el le E. H   2 0 02 W o r l dclas s w a r e ho us i n g a n d m a te r i al  ha n d l i n g   New York : McGraw-Hill  8  Mo hs e n ia nRa d A  H  S h a h M a n s o ur i  V   W o ng V  W  S  S c ho be r  R   2010\. Distributed Channel Selection and Randomized Interrogation Algorithms for Large-Scale and Dense RFID Systems IEEE Transactions On Wireless Communications 9 1402 – 1413 9  C h al asa n i  S  Bo pp an a R 2 0 0 7   D a ta A r chi t e c t u r e s f o r RF I D  Transactions IEEE Transactions On Industrial Informatics 3 246 – 257 10 R a nky P  G   200 7  E n g i ne e r in g Man a g e m e nt – F o cus e d RF I D Mo de l Solutions IEEE Engineering Management Review 35 20 – 30 11  C h o w H  K  H   C h o y K   L  L e e  W  B a n d L a u K  C  2 0 06  D e sig n o f  a RFID case-based resource management system for warehouse operations Expert Systems with Applications 30 561 – 576 12 T h e v isse n P  W P o e l m a n G C o o m an M  D  P u e r s R a n d W i l l e m s  G   2006\. Implantation of an RFID-tag into human molars to reduce hard forensic identification labor. Part I: Working principle Forensic Science International 159 S33 – S39  T r ap p e y  A  J   C  L u  T  H F u  L  D 200 7   Develop m en t of an intelligent agent system for collaborative mold production with RFID technology Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing 25 42 – 56 14 S h aw M J S u br am a n iam   C T a n G  W W e lg e  M E  2 00 1   Knowledge management and data mining for marketing Decision Support Systems 31 127 – 137 15 N g u y e n  H  T  a n d W a l k e r  E  A   2 0 0 6   A  F i r s t C o u r s e i n F u z z y  L o g i c   Boca Raton, FL: Chapman & Hall/CRC  16 P h am D  T  a n d P h a m P   T  N   1 99 9 A r tif i c ial I n te l l i ge nce in  Engineering International Journal of Machine Tools & Manufacture 39 937 949  W a n g  L  X 1 994  A d a p t i v e F u z z y S y s t em s a n d C o n t rol: Des i gn a nd Stability Analysis Englewood Cliffs, N.J.:PTR Prentice Hall   K i n g R T  F    R a dh a  B  a nd Ru gh oopu th  C  S  2 0 0 4   A fu zzy  L o gi c Controlled Genetic Algorithm for Optimal Electrical Distribution Network Reconfiguration Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE, International Conference on Networking, Sensing & Control, Taipei, Taiwan, 577–582, March 23, 2004   Pet r ovi c  D  D u en a s  A   Pet r ov i c  S  2 007  Dec i s i o n Supp ort T ool for  Multi-objective Job Shop Scheduling Problems with Linguistically Quantified Decision Functions Decision Support Systems 43 1527 – 1538 20  Che n  G W e i, Q   2 0 02  F u z z y  as s o cia tio n r u l e s an d the e x te nde d m i n i ng  algorithms Information Sciences 147 201 – 228 21 L a u  H   C  W   H o  G  T  S   Z h a o  Y   C h u n g  N  S  H   2 0 0 9    Development of a process mining system for supporting knowledge discovery in a supply chain network International Journal of Production Economics 122  176 – 187  L ee  W  J  J i a n g, J  Y. L ee S J   2 008   Mi ni n g fu zz y p e ri od ic  a s s o c i a t ion rules Data & Knowledge Engineering 65 442 – 462  T  C    Ch oy  K  L  a n d L a u  H.C  W   2 0 0 9  Des i gn of a R F I D  case-based logistics resource management system for order-picking in warehouse Expert Systems with Applications 36 8277 – 8301  


        


9 Appendix Fig 6: Forest Cover Types of the U.S. \(Source. USGS National Atlas of US Summary of Forest Cover Type Data Type Multivariate Abstract The forest cover type for 30 x 30 meter cells obtai ned from US Forest Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS\ data Data Characteristics The actual forest cover type for a given observatio n \(30 x 30 meter cell\ was determined from US Fores t Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS data Independe nt variables were derived from data originally obta ined from US Geological Survey \(USGS\ and USFS data. Data is in raw form \(not scaled\ and contains binary \(0 or 1 columns of data for qualitative independent variables \(wilderness areas and soil types Summary Statistics Number of instances observations 581012 Number of Attributes 54 Attribute breakdown 12 measures, but 54 columns of data \(10 quantitativ e variables, 4 binary wilderness areas and 40 binary soil type variables Missing Attribute Values None 43 


   C4.2 Open GL has excellent documentation that could help the developer learn the platform with ease C4.3 Developer has very little ex perience in working with Open GL platform  For our case study, alternative B i.e. Adobe Director was the most favorable alternative amongst all the three. It catered to the reusability criteria quite well and aimed at meeting most of the desired operational requirements for the system   6. CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK  The main contribution of this paper is to develop an approach for evaluating performance scores in MultiCriteria decision making using an intelligent computational argumentation network. The evaluation process requires us to identify performance scores in multi criteria decision making which are not obtained objectively and quantify the same by providing a strong rationale. In this way, deeper analysis can be achieved in reducing the uncertainty problem involved in Multi Criteria decision paradigm. As a part of our future work we plan on conducting a large scale empirical analysis of the argumentation system to validate its effectiveness   REFERENCES  1  L  P Am g o u d  U sin g  A r g u men ts f o r mak i n g an d  ex p lain in g  decisions Artificial Intelligence 173 413-436, \(2009 2 A  Boch m a n   C ollectiv e A r g u men tatio n    Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning 2002 3 G  R Bu y u k o zk an  Ev alu a tio n o f sof tware d e v e lo p m en t  projects using a fuzzy multi-criteria decision approach Mathematics and Computers in Simualtion 77 464-475, \(2008 4 M T  Chen   F u zzy MCD M A p p r o ach t o Selec t Serv ice  Provider The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy 2003 5 J. Con k li n  an d  M. Beg e m a n   gIBIS: A Hypertext Tool for Exploratory Policy Discussion Transactions on Office Information Systems 6\(4\: 303  331, \(1988 6 B P  Duarte D e v elo p in g a p r o jec ts ev alu a tio n sy ste m based on multiple attribute value theroy Computer Operations Research 33 1488-1504, \(2006 7 E G  Fo rm an  T h e  A n a l y t ic Hier a rch y P r o cess A n  Exposition OR CHRONICLE 1999 8 M. L ease  an d J L  L i v e l y  Using an Issue Based Hypertext System to Capture Software LifeCycle Process Hypermedia  2\(1\, pp. 34  45, \(1990 9  P e id e L i u   E valu a tio n Mo d e l o f Custo m e r Satis f a c tio n o f  B2CE Commerce Based on Combin ation of Linguistic Variables and Fuzzy Triangular Numbers Eight ACIS International Conference on Software Engin eering, Artificial Intelligence Networking and Parallel Distributed Computing, \(pp 450-454 2007  10  X  F L i u   M an ag e m en t o f an In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  Network for a Web-Based Collaborative Engineering Design Environment Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems,\(CTS 2007\, Orlando, Florida May 21-25, 2007 11 X. F L i u   A n In ternet Ba se d In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  System for Collaborative Engineering Design Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems pp. 318-325\. Las Vegas, Nevada 2006 12 T  M A sub jec tiv e assess m e n t o f altern ativ e m ission  architectures for the human exploration of Mars at NASA using multicriteria decision making Computer and Operations Research 1147-1164, \(June 2004 13 A  N Mo n ireh  F u zzy De cisio n Ma k i n g b a se d o n  Relationship Analysis between Criteria Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society 2005 14 N  P a p a d ias HERMES Su p p o rti n g A r g u m e n tative  Discourse in Multi Agent Decision Making Proceedings of the 15th National Conference on Artifical Intelligence \(AAAI-98  pp. 827-832\dison, WI: AAAI/MIT Press,  \(1998a 15  E. B T riantaph y llo u   T h e Im p act o f  Ag g r e g atin g Ben e f i t  and Cost Criteria in Four MCDA Methods IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol 52, No 2 May 2005 16 S  H T s a u r T h e Ev alu a tio n o f airlin e se rv ice q u a lity b y  fuzzy MCDM Tourism Management 107-115, \(2002 1 T  D W a n g  Develo p in g a f u zz y  T O P S IS app r o ach  b a sed  on subjective weights and objective weights Expert Systems with Applications 8980-8985, \(2009 18 L  A  Zadeh  F u z z y Sets   Information and Control 8  338-353, \(1965  152 


                        





