Context-Aware Ubiquitous Musafir        Abstract Population using Mobile phones and Mobile applications is increasing every day. Emergence of Cloud Computing and advances in Wireless Communication technologies has changed the dynamics of mobile applications by providing Scalable On-Demand High Available Infrastructure at minimal cost with zero maintenance and empowered with faster data transfer. Enterprises have started to develop Cloud based mobile applications that can target 
their Customers who are on the move. This paper presents a Cloud based Context Aware mobile application that targets Travel, Healthcare, Education and Retail Enterprises and their Users. Machine Learning techniques such as Association rules were used to analyze the mobile end user data on the Cloud towards predicting the services preferred by the End User  I  INTRODUCTION  Marriage of Cloud computing and Emerging Wireless Technologies could ensure Pervasive Access and help towards Seamless Scalability, Zero Maintenance, Fault Tolerance, Minimal Infrastructure and On-Demand delivery of various Vital services such as Healthcare, Education and 
Shopping/Business experiences s has a t r emendo u s  impact on Information and Communication Technologies ICT\ which could eventually bridge the ‘Digital Divide and specifically enables an innovative way to deliver ubiquitous services. We had developed a service platform entitled “Pervasive Cloud” on which various applications can be developed  Thes e a pplications could require high computing power, or could be database applications where huge amount of data has to be stored and accessed Pervasive Cloud is based on convergence of emerging technologies such as Cloud and Mobile computing and could be used to provide inexpensive solutions with minimal infrastructure  Our Application ‘Musafir’ which has been deployed on 
the “Pervasive Cloud” empowers the People-On-The-Move and provides context aware Travelling support, which at present is being extended to Education, Healthcare and Shopping applications. ‘Musafir’ is a Rich Internet Mobile application which runs on a Mobile Internet Device \(MID or in general, any Mobile device and would be able to connect to a Public Cloud at Real Time.  ‘Musafir’ enables an End User \(a\ Context Aware Business Application that could assist Consumers for their Travel Needs. \(b\To register Health Complaints and receive proper Diagnosis and Medicine \(c\ccess to Educational Videos \(d\os of various Retail products to understand and estimate the 
quality of the products and the location they are available   II  MUSAFIR  A  Context Aware Travel Assistant Owing to the personalized nature of services, context aware applications could be developed to target personal travel [3 n t ex t a w are ap p l icatio n s are u s u a ll y b u ilt b y a  set of manually defined rules which can define user behavior for varying context or user defined preferences This could lead to inaccuracies and hence improper services. Machine learning empowered context aware application can improve the accuracy of such service discoveries. Bayesian network could be used to develop an 
intelligent engine, as this could address context aware problems by analyzing historical activity \(behavioral log of individual persons e as on i n g cou l d al s o be us ed t o  the study context in an ubiquitous environment [5 T h e  prominence of context aware application is steadily growing with the advent of mobile devices and other wearable wireless sensors Indeed there was a lot of research literature available towards context awareness in an ubiquitous environment [6-8 o w e v e r w h e n  w e t a l k  about context awareness it mostly focuses on personalized services and it is well known that the number of end-users 
is also a constantly increasing factor. Scalability could well be an issue if the data collected for such an application is too large. ‘Cloud Computing’ could be of help in such a scenarios  Musafir employs Association Rules [9 to w a r d s Co nte x t  Awareness, and could be used by End User/ Consumers or by Travel Service Providers to facilitate travel of their customers. Association rules find association or relationships among large sets of data. These rules are Dr.G.Subrahmanya VRK Rao Global Technology Office Cognizant Technology Solutions Chennai, India Email subrahmanyavrk.rao@cognizant.com 
Dr. Karthik Sundararaman Global Technology Office Cognizant Technology Solutions Chennai, India Email karthik.sundararaman@cognizant.com Jinka Parthasarathi Global Technology Office Cognizant Technology Solutions Chennai, India Email parthasarathi.jinka@cognizant.com Prashant Parekh Retail Tech Consulting Group Cognizant Technology Solutions Chennai, India Email prashant.parekh@cognizant.com 
2010 IEEE Conference on Open Systems \(ICOS 2010 
978-1-4244-9192-6/10/$26.00 ©2010 IEEE 
91 


Probabilistic in nature and provide results of Data Mining in the form of ‘if-then statements’. Appropriate rules are selected from the set of all possible Rules, Constraints on various measures of Significance and Interest. Association rules have often been used to perform Market Basket Analysis successfully. In this study we had used Apriori Algorithm of the Association rules to determine Traveler’s preference  We had used a part of the Public Mobile User Data set that was provided by the MIT media La w h i c h consisted of User Profiles, Cell Tower ID and their Daily Routines etc. These details were stored in a Database which we hosted on a Public Cloud. In order to understand the usage of the said Datasets for a Travel based application we had prepared a detailed travel record for each of the mobile user. The dataset we developed for user travel was divided into different categories viz. Very Frequent /Often Rare Travelers according to user Profile. Travel records consisted of their preferred mode of travel viz flight, train bus or own car, journey date, their mobile and IMEI number. System context View of Musafir is shown in figure 1    Fig. 1. System Context View of Musafir  Client End Form for the Mobile End User was developed using JAVA / J2ME for Services, which have Push Buttons for Services, an End User may require \(figure 2a   Fig. 2a. End User Form for Musafir’s Travel Module  The End User clicks on the ‘Travel’ button and fills in the details \(see figure 2b  Fig. 2b. Travel Service Form  End User’s IMEI Number, Mobile Number, Time of Request and Place of request and other filled details would be sent to the JAVA Servlet running on the Cloud. Study was only concentrated on mobile phones whose IMEI number could be extracted aps h ot v i e w o f  trav el  database used in the study is shown in figure 2c. The Servlet first executes SQL queries to extract History details about the Mobile user based on IMEI and Mobile Number A temporary table, which consists of travelling patterns of a particular person, is formed and Aprori algorithm is applied on the resultant temporary table. The algorithm will extract rules based on the history details and would provide probabilities for mode of travel of a particular person as 
92 


illustrated in figure 2d. Mode of travel that has the highest probability would be chosen and send to the person who initiates the travel request. Mobile screen shot of the response to the travel request is shown in figure 2e   Fig. 2c. Snapshot view of travel record database   Fig. 2d. Results of running Apriori Algorithm on the travel database for a particular person 
93 


 Fig. 2e. Response from Servlet on the Cloud after processing End User request  End User would then be able to view his choice on their mobile  screen. Once the End User confirms the Mode of Travel, a list of schedules of Preferred Mode of Travel from Source to Destination with all the details is retrieved and shown on the Mobile Screen of the End User \(figure 2f\d User can then book for the Travel   Fig. 2f.  List of Flights from source to destination with details of Discounts   One of the main objectives of context aware applications is to discover service accordi ng to the user’s preference Web has transformed so much that many enterprises provide certain services like Map, RSS, product search etc as API \(Application Programming Interface\which can be invoked by general users. These API’s could be very useful for a traveler. For example a Map service can help to locate a place or provide driving directions from a place to another. In Musafir we had used the Map Service AP  to help the end user by  providing the Driving Direction from source to destination\ if they opt for driving their own Transport / Car \(figure 2g\usafir provides a separate servlet to address this. This servlet has two functions viz. \(a\ap service API \(b\PI function provided by a 3 rd party bulk Short Message Service \(SMS  service  provider  Once the end user indicates to the servlet that they prefer driving their own transport, Map Service API is invoked to get the driving directions for the travel and the link to page is sent as an SMS using the SMS API function to the users mobile phone    Fig. 2g. Map showing the Driving Direction between the Source and Destination  The two Servlets mentioned above are actually connected to a MySQL database table called ‘journeydet’ present in the Cloud. Once the user confirms the bookings travel details of the users along with their mobile number, IMEI number, date of journey, source and destination of journey mode of journey etc are stored in a table ‘journeydet’. This will help in eliminating static rules and the dataset for Apriori algorithm will have an improved support such that it can provide more accurate results based on the Dynamic Database details   A small automated program \(procedure\ould run at the start of everyday.  It has three main functions \(a\earch function, which is basically a SQL query to select details Mobile number, source and destination of travel\f those who are travelling on that particular day from journeydet table \(b\voke weather service AP d f i n d o u t t h e  respective weather conditions for each of the identified 
94 


destination \(c\API which would then send the respective weather information to the corresponding mobile numbers. This information would help to facilitate the travel arrangements of the end user  B  Healthcare, Education and Shopping Modules  End User forms \(figure 3a\were developed based on Flex Technology which would facilitate Rich User Experience. User can fill in the Health Complaints and submit the details to the Cloud. A third party API which facilitates SMS to a Mobile device was integrated with the Servlet program.  Once the Database \(on the Cloud\ is updated with the Health complaints, the API can trigger an alert to a registered expert Physician    Fig. 3a. End User entering the health complaints  Physicians were provided with a mobile application which would help them to assess the Patient’s Health Complaints from the Cloud database [2 P h y s ician  u p  o n  analyzing the case,  can submit their Diagnosis and Prescription details to the Cloud Database seamlessly which would send an SMS alert to the patient who filled in the Complaint. This application also empowers the End User to transfer ECG and images to the Cloud which could also be viewed by the Physician \(figure 3b    Fig. 3b. Physician’s view of the ECG signal of a Patient retrieved from the Cloud Education Module of Musafir empowers an End User to select and watch Videos relating subjects of their interest The typical End User could be any consumer and specifically academic community around the world.  The videos will be streamed from the Cloud \(figure 4 Performance of such an application depends on bandwidth of the network and type of communication technology used. In our lab environment we were able to upload a  5MB file to the Cloud in roughly around 2minute 30 seconds to 3 minutes and the time taken to download the file / stream the file from the same is around 1 minute 30 seconds to 2 minutes considering the connection speed to be a maximum of 512KBPS DSL Connection     Fig. 4. Educational Videos that could be accessed by a Touch Screen interface  Shopping module of Musafir enables an End User Consumer, to watch Demos related to various Retail Products, to understand the Location of their availability their Price and to store their personalized shopping choices in a ‘Shopping Cart’, which could connect to a Billing/Credit Card System \(figure 5    Fig. 5. Demos of Retail products available at a particular location Security is a major concern for web based applications where there is a possibility of a large number of users Having realized the sensitivity of datasets we are trying to address security issue by using 128 byte Advanced Encryption Standard \(AES\gorithm on the datasets  
95 


For each application there would a set of administrators and end users. Hence a role based access to the database is also being studied and implemented. We are currently working towards making Healthcare, Education and Shopping modules more ‘intelligent’ by making them ContextAware  III  CONCLUSION  Musafir was targeted towards Healthcare, Retail, Travel Education /Content Management Business Groups and its Users. The application provides \(a\ervasive learning access through videos and On-Demand Education \(b Empowers Online Shopping and Business On-the-Move \(c Real Time and Pervasive Primary Health Care Service \(d Context aware Travel Solution  IV  REFERENCES 1  G Subrahmanya VRK Rao, Jinka Parthasarathi, S. Karthik and GVN Appa Rao, “Implementation of Virtulization Oriented Architecture – A Healthcare Case Study”. IT Revolutions 2008, LNICST 11 proceedings, Springer 2  G Subrahmanya VRK Rao,Karthik Sundararaman,Jinka Parthasarathi, Dhatri – A Pervasive Cloud Initiative for Primary Healthcare Services – Proceedings of IEEE-ICIN 2010, Berlin 3  Cheverst, K., Davies, N., Mitchell, K., Friday, A., Efstratiou C.: Developing a contextaware electronic tourist guide: some issues and experiences. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(The Hague, The Netherlands, April 01 - 06, 2000\. CHI '00 ACM Press. \(2002 4  Masaki Matsudaira, Kyoko Hoshikawa, Kohei Taki “Context Awareness and Its Applications”, Oki Technical Review April 2008/Issue 212 Vol.75 No.1,94-97                    5  Donghai Guan, Weiwei Yuan, Seong Jin Cho, Andrey Gavrilov, Young-Koo Lee, and Sungyoung Lee* “Devising a Context Selection-Based Reasoning Engine for ContextAware Ubiquitous Computing Middleware” UIC 2007 LNCS 4611, pp. 849–857, 2007 6  Dey, A.K., Abowd, G.D., Salber, D.: A Conceptual Framework and a Toolkit for Supporting  the Rapid Prototyping of Context-Aware Applications. J. of HumanComputer Interaction \(HCI\ 16, 97–166 \(2001 7  Hong, J.I., Landay, J.A.: An Infrastructure Approach to Context-Aware Computing. J. Human-Computer Interaction HCI\, London, UK, 287–303 \(2001 8  Shafer, S.A.N., Brumitt, B., Cadiz,J.J.: Interaction Issues in Context-Aware Interactive Environments. J. HumanComputer Interaction \(HCI\, London, UK, 363–378 \(2001 9  Zijian Zheng, Ron Kohavi, Llew Mason, “Real world performance of association rule algorithms  Proceedings of the seventh ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining  San Francisco California, Pages: 401 – 406,Year of Publication: 2001,ISBN:1-58113-391-X 10  N. Eagle, A. Pentland, and D. Lazer \(2009\, "Inferring Social Network Structure using Mobile Phone Data Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 106\(36 pp. 15274-15278 11  http://mobilepit.com/10/how-to-get-imei-number-in-j2mejavame.html 12  http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/examples/d irections-simple.html 13  http://weather.weatherbug.com/desktop- weather/api.html 14  Christof Paar, Jan Pelzl, "The Advanced Encryption Standard", Chapter 4 of "Understanding Cryptography, A Textbook for Students and Practitioners". Springer, 2009  
96 


        


        


9 Appendix Fig 6: Forest Cover Types of the U.S. \(Source. USGS National Atlas of US Summary of Forest Cover Type Data Type Multivariate Abstract The forest cover type for 30 x 30 meter cells obtai ned from US Forest Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS\ data Data Characteristics The actual forest cover type for a given observatio n \(30 x 30 meter cell\ was determined from US Fores t Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS data Independe nt variables were derived from data originally obta ined from US Geological Survey \(USGS\ and USFS data. Data is in raw form \(not scaled\ and contains binary \(0 or 1 columns of data for qualitative independent variables \(wilderness areas and soil types Summary Statistics Number of instances observations 581012 Number of Attributes 54 Attribute breakdown 12 measures, but 54 columns of data \(10 quantitativ e variables, 4 binary wilderness areas and 40 binary soil type variables Missing Attribute Values None 43 


   C4.2 Open GL has excellent documentation that could help the developer learn the platform with ease C4.3 Developer has very little ex perience in working with Open GL platform  For our case study, alternative B i.e. Adobe Director was the most favorable alternative amongst all the three. It catered to the reusability criteria quite well and aimed at meeting most of the desired operational requirements for the system   6. CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK  The main contribution of this paper is to develop an approach for evaluating performance scores in MultiCriteria decision making using an intelligent computational argumentation network. The evaluation process requires us to identify performance scores in multi criteria decision making which are not obtained objectively and quantify the same by providing a strong rationale. In this way, deeper analysis can be achieved in reducing the uncertainty problem involved in Multi Criteria decision paradigm. As a part of our future work we plan on conducting a large scale empirical analysis of the argumentation system to validate its effectiveness   REFERENCES  1  L  P Am g o u d  U sin g  A r g u men ts f o r mak i n g an d  ex p lain in g  decisions Artificial Intelligence 173 413-436, \(2009 2 A  Boch m a n   C ollectiv e A r g u men tatio n    Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning 2002 3 G  R Bu y u k o zk an  Ev alu a tio n o f sof tware d e v e lo p m en t  projects using a fuzzy multi-criteria decision approach Mathematics and Computers in Simualtion 77 464-475, \(2008 4 M T  Chen   F u zzy MCD M A p p r o ach t o Selec t Serv ice  Provider The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy 2003 5 J. Con k li n  an d  M. Beg e m a n   gIBIS: A Hypertext Tool for Exploratory Policy Discussion Transactions on Office Information Systems 6\(4\: 303  331, \(1988 6 B P  Duarte D e v elo p in g a p r o jec ts ev alu a tio n sy ste m based on multiple attribute value theroy Computer Operations Research 33 1488-1504, \(2006 7 E G  Fo rm an  T h e  A n a l y t ic Hier a rch y P r o cess A n  Exposition OR CHRONICLE 1999 8 M. L ease  an d J L  L i v e l y  Using an Issue Based Hypertext System to Capture Software LifeCycle Process Hypermedia  2\(1\, pp. 34  45, \(1990 9  P e id e L i u   E valu a tio n Mo d e l o f Custo m e r Satis f a c tio n o f  B2CE Commerce Based on Combin ation of Linguistic Variables and Fuzzy Triangular Numbers Eight ACIS International Conference on Software Engin eering, Artificial Intelligence Networking and Parallel Distributed Computing, \(pp 450-454 2007  10  X  F L i u   M an ag e m en t o f an In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  Network for a Web-Based Collaborative Engineering Design Environment Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems,\(CTS 2007\, Orlando, Florida May 21-25, 2007 11 X. F L i u   A n In ternet Ba se d In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  System for Collaborative Engineering Design Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems pp. 318-325\. Las Vegas, Nevada 2006 12 T  M A sub jec tiv e assess m e n t o f altern ativ e m ission  architectures for the human exploration of Mars at NASA using multicriteria decision making Computer and Operations Research 1147-1164, \(June 2004 13 A  N Mo n ireh  F u zzy De cisio n Ma k i n g b a se d o n  Relationship Analysis between Criteria Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society 2005 14 N  P a p a d ias HERMES Su p p o rti n g A r g u m e n tative  Discourse in Multi Agent Decision Making Proceedings of the 15th National Conference on Artifical Intelligence \(AAAI-98  pp. 827-832\dison, WI: AAAI/MIT Press,  \(1998a 15  E. B T riantaph y llo u   T h e Im p act o f  Ag g r e g atin g Ben e f i t  and Cost Criteria in Four MCDA Methods IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol 52, No 2 May 2005 16 S  H T s a u r T h e Ev alu a tio n o f airlin e se rv ice q u a lity b y  fuzzy MCDM Tourism Management 107-115, \(2002 1 T  D W a n g  Develo p in g a f u zz y  T O P S IS app r o ach  b a sed  on subjective weights and objective weights Expert Systems with Applications 8980-8985, \(2009 18 L  A  Zadeh  F u z z y Sets   Information and Control 8  338-353, \(1965  152 


                        





