Proceedings of the International Conference on Communication and Computational Intellig ence ñ 2010 Kongu Engineering College, Perundurai, Erode, T.N.,India.27 ñ 29 December,2010.pp.410-414  410  Fuzzy Pattern Cluster Scheme for Breast  Cancer Datasets D.Vanisri 1 C.Loganathan 2  1 Kongu Engineering College Erode 638052, India 1 vanisri_raja@rediffmail.com 2  Maharaja Arts and Science College Coimbatore, Tamilnadu, India 2 clogu@rediffmail.com  Abstract 
Data mining techniques are used for the knowledge discovery process under the large data set environment Clustering techniques are used to group up the relevant data sets Hierarchical and partitioned clustering techniques are used for the clustering process. The clustering process is the complex task with high process time. The pattern extraction scheme is applied to find frequent item sets. Association rule mining techniques are applied to carry out the pattern extraction process. The pattern extraction scheme and the clustering scheme are integrated in the 
simultaneous pattern extraction and clustering scheme. The clustering process is improved with pattern comparison and transaction transfer process. The simultaneous clustering scheme is implemented to analyze the cancer patient diagnosis reports The cluster accuracy is represented using the fitness values. The system is enhanced with the K-means clustering algorithm. Fuzzy clustering used to optimize the system    Keywords   Datamining, document clustering, pattern cluster, pattern disc overy, data cluster  
I  I NTRODUCTION  The clustering techniques are used to group up the transactional data based on the similarity values. The pattern extraction methods are used to find out similar patterns in the transactional data sets. The system integrates the pattern extraction scheme with clustering method to improve the clustering process. The simultaneous clustering scheme uses the pattern and the transactional data for the clustering process. The partitioned clustering technique is enhanced in the system. The association rule mining technique and clustering technique are integrated in the simultaneous clustering process. The system is designed with the following 
objectives   To maintain the patient diagnosis reports for the breast cancer patients  To correct the noisy records using the data preprocessing techniques  To apply the query based techniques to remove the redundant records  To use the aggregation based method to correct incomplete records  To use apriori algorithm to extract association rules To extract patterns from the frequent item set values  To perform data clustering using the transactional data sets  To prepare pattern clusters using the patterns 
 To carry out simultaneous clustering using the patterns and transactional data  To find the fitness values for cluster accuracy measurement process  To conduct a study to find out the performance of the clustering algorithms The simultaneous pattern extraction and clustering system is designed to perform the pattern extraction and clustering process in an integrated manner. The system reduces the process time for clustering process. Generally the data clustering and pattern extraction operations carried out separately. This system integrates the pattern extraction and 
clustering tasks to reduce the process time and improve the clustering accuracy. The breast cancer data sets are used in the system. The symptoms and their severity levels are maintained in the database. The symptom and their indication values are maintained as quantitative values The system uses the association rule mining techniques and clustering techniques for the mining process. The pattern extraction is done using the association rule mining techniques. The frequent items are extracted using the priory algorithm. The patterns are extr acted from the frequent items The clustering algorithm is used to group up the transaction data based on similarity value. The system performs three type 
of clustering tasks. They are data clustering, pattern clustering and simultaneous clustering operations[8 T h e d a ta clu s teri n g  tasks group the transaction data in the actual data set. The pattern clustering tasks is applied on the extracted patterns The K-means clustering algorithm is used for the data clustering and pattern clustering process The simultaneous clustering mechanism uses the patterns and actual transactional data. The K-means clustering algorithm is modified to perform the simultaneous clustering process. The K-means clustering algorithm uses the same data 


Proceedings of the International Conference on Communication and Computational Intelligence ñ 2010   411  values for the similarity computation and cluster assignment process. The modified K-means clustering algorithm uses the pattern information for the distance measure process and uses the associated transactional data for cluster assignment process. In this case minimum patterns are used for the comparison process but a set of transactional data are assigned into the corresponding cluster. The system also performs a preprocessing task to clean the data set from noisy records The simultaneous clustering process uses more memory than data clustering technique. The process time is very low. The clustering accuracy is very high The simultaneous pattern extraction and clustering technique is developed to improve the performance of the clustering system. The system uses the breast cancer patient diagnosis report for the clustering process. The pattern extraction and clustering process are integrated in the system  II  M OTIVATION  The major contributions of this work are summarized as follows 1  A simultaneous pattern and data clustering method is proposed. It is able to cluster not only patterns but also their associated data while making the relation between patterns and data explicit 2  Since the effectiveness of a pattern-clustering algorithm is highly dependent on the distance measures between patterns and their associated data in this work, several distance measures are proposed and their relations to existing common measures are studied. The key component of the proposed approach is the simultaneous pattern and data clustering. If it is able to cluster patterns and the associated data effectively in the divide phase, the subsequent analysis of individual clusters in the conquer phase will become simpler and more effective and can be conducted using existing wellstudied techniques III  R ELATED W ORK  Data mining, the extraction of hidden predictive information from large databases  is a powerful new technology with great potential to help companies focus on the most important information in their data warehouses 1 Data mining tools predict future trends and behaviors, allowing businesses to make proactive, knowledge-driven decisions Data warehousing represents an ideal vision of maintaining a central repository of all organizational data. Centralization of data is needed to maximize user access and analysis   Information is the backbone of any organization. An effective information system should be able to provide information to those in need of it at any time that they need 3  Data is an externally valuable corporate resource affecting productivity, profitability and strategic decisions, and any community of each importance requires planning from top management.  Data mining has attracted a great deal of attention due to the wide availability of huge amounts of data and the imminent need for turning such data into useful information [4 Association rule mining for multiple database management Systems have continually evolved from primitive file systems to sophisticated and  powerful relational and object oriented models 5 Present day systems implement  various  constructs in  the form of query optimizing modules, event-condition action rules to trigger events of interest and other mechanisms that have made their use imperative in most applications Clustering is the process of grouping the data into clusters with high intra-cluster similarity and low inter-cluster similarity. There are several clustering techniques: partitioning methods, hierarchical methods, density-based methods, gridbased methods, and model based methods. The basic difference between classification and clustering is that classification is a supervised learning method, which assumes predefined class labels, while clustering is an   unsupervised learning method that does not assume any knowledge of classes The effectiveness of clustering mainly depends on the distance measure, several distance measures between patterns and their associated data are proposed. Once pattern clusters and their associated data cluste rs are obtained, each of them can be further analyzed individually h is paper pres en ts a  knowledge exploratory method using multiple pattern associations to conjecture structural and functional characteristics of bimolecular[7   T o u n c o v er q u alitati v e a n d  quantitative patterns in a data set is a challenging task for research in the area of machine learning and data analysis Due to the complexity of real-world data, high-order patterns or event associations, in addition to first-order class-dependent relationships, have to be acquired[8 A n attrib u t e c l u s teri n g  method which is able to group genes based on their interdependence so as to mine meaningful patterns from the gene expression data. a small pool of selected genes can be used to build classifiers with very high classification rate From the pool, gene expressions of different categories can be identified [9  IV  P ROBLEM D ESCRIPTION  A  Pattern Discovery Concepts  Today, a primary challenge in data mining and knowledge discovery is to discover interesting relationships from data sets The basic idea of PD can be illustrated by a simple XOR  problem with three binary variables A, B and C for C = A B Suppose that the user want to check whether or not the occurrence of a compound event |A = T,B = T;C = F\ is just a random happening. Given the observed frequency of occurrences o of the compound event, if the system could estimate its expected frequency of occurrences e under the random assumption, the system knows whether it is random or not by checking the difference \(o ñ e\ch a notion is formulated as a hypothesis test. A compound event is called an event association pattern or simply a pattern if the 


 Fuzzy pattern cluster scheme for Breast  cancer datasets  412  difference \(o ñ e\ is significant enough to indicate that the compound event is not a random happening PD is a useful tool for categorical data analysis. First, the patterns produced are easy to understand for those who are not data mining experts. Hence, it is widely used in business and commercial applications. Second, it assumes very little knowledge about the data from the users. Thus, when the users do not have any a priori knowledge about a data set, PD is a good starting point for exploring the data set. Third correlation relationship often reveals useful information hidden in the data. Finally, the discovered patterns provide an alternative perspective for further analysis of the data B  Pattern Analysis Using the discovered patterns, the user can conduct inference such as classification. The classifiers built from association patterns are known as associative classifiers which may be easier to understand than conventional classifiers. In addition, there is no systematic and objective way of combining fragments of information from individual patterns to produce a more generalized form of information Since there are too many patterns, it is difficult to use them to further explore or analyze the data. Hence, the problem of too many patterns limits the usefulness of PD In non-fuzzy or hard clustering, data is divided into crisp clusters, where each data point belongs to exactly one cluster In fuzzy clustering, the data points can belong to more than one cluster, and associated with each of the points are membership grades which indicate the degree to which the data points belong to the different clusters C  S  The FCM algorithm is one of the most widely used fuzzy clustering algorithms. This techni que was originally introduced by Professor Jim Bezdek in 1981. The FCM algorithm attempts to partition a finite collection of elements X   into a collection of c fuzzy clusters with respect to some given criterion Given a finite set of data, the al gorithm returns a list of c cluster centers V, such that V i =1, 2, ... , c and a partition matrix U such that U i =1, ..., c, j =1,..., n where is a numerical value in [0, 1 tha t te lls t h e de g r e e to w h ic h  the element belongs to the i-th cluster The following is a linguistic description of the FCM algorithm which is implemented Fuzzy Logic The functions that implement this algorithm can be found in the Clustering.m file Step 1: Select the number of clusters c \(2 c n\, exponential weight 1  itial partition matrix and the termination criterion Also, set the iteration index l to 0 Step 2: Calculate the fuzzy cluster centers i=1, 2, ..., c} by using  Step 3: Calculate the new partition matrix by using i=1, 2 c Step 4: Calculate the new partition matrix      If  then set l = l + 1 and go to step 2. If then stop V  M ATERIALS A ND M ETHODS  A.. Pattern- Induced Data Clusters A simultaneous pattern and data clustering method is presented. To begin with, the notion of pattern induced data clusters is introduced. It relates patterns to the set of compound events containing them and makes the relation between patterns and their associated data explicit It can be used as a natural threshold for stopping a clustering algorithm. It is not possible cluster two rules patterns together if dR > 1, since there is more dissimilarity than similarity between the two patterns. It has been reported that distance / similarity measures based on matched samples such as dT and dG work fairly well for clustering similar patterns, because they go back to the samples where the patterns / rules share or differ. However, these measures do not give special consideration to the attributes where the patterns share or differ. As an illustration, consider the two pairs of patterns j i s j s i x x   r i r j and r ij bear the same meaning. C i C j s the number of attributes matched by   j i s j s i x x  but not by  i j s i s j x x  That is, ci = |s i s j and c j  s j s i Let c ij be the number of attributes matched by both i s i x and j s j x That is, c ij s i   s j   The system measures d T d G and dR will yield the same value for the two pairs of patterns, since r i r p r j r q  and r ij r pq However, it seems more reasonable to consider that i s i x and j s j x are more similar, since they share certain attributes \(c ij 0 This motivates to introduce the notion of pattern induced data cluster I\(i\ \(6\, which consider both the sets of matched samples and matched attributes. In Figure.1, the four highlighted rectangles are actually the induced data clusters I\(i\\(j\I\(p\, and I\(q\. In addition, when two data clusters say, I\(i\nd I\(j\erged, the compound events in the upper right and bottom left corner regions are added into the merged data cluster. The corner regions are defined by I \(i/j\ = {x s   x | x  m\(i\m\(j\, s = s j s i 6 I \(j/i s  x | x  m\(j\ / m\(i\, s = s i s j 7 where W r and W c are the weights of the samples and the attributes, respectively. If w r w c 1, d RC 1, again, can be used as a natural stopping criterion. The number of matched samples and matched attributes are equally important.   w r and w c are set to 0.5 One problem of the measure d RC is that it does not consider the variation within the data clusters. The measures including d T d G d R and d RC discussed so far are designed to measure the distance among patterns This allows us to analyze pattern clusters via their associated data clusters by using standard analysis techniques 


Proceedings of the International Conference on Communication and Computational Intelligence ñ 2010   413  A simple technique is introduced for effectively analyzing individual data clusters. On the other hand, knowing which set of patterns induces which data clusters allows users to use understandable patterns for interpreting and validating the data clusters. In view of this, it is desirable to simultaneously cluster patterns and data and keep their relations explicit. To obtain good data clusters the variations could be minimized A common measure of variation/uncertainty for discretevalued data is entropy   log     s I x s x P x P I H s   8 where P\(x s he joint probability distribution of x s and I is the abbreviation of I\(1 . . . n However, the number of parameters in estimating P\(x s exponential. For s binary variables, it is of order O\(2 s nce, it is impractical to estimate P\(x s y due to the lack of data in most real-world problems. To reduce the number of parameters, this approach adopts a naive assumption that the attributes are conditionally independent given a data cluster. The joint entropy is then estimated by summing up the entropy of individual attributes     s i I x x x i i s s i x P x P I H    log     9 where s is the attribute index set of I. P\(x i he probability of x i in I and is estimated by  I o x P i x i     10 where i x o is the observed frequency of x i in I, and I is the number of  compound  events in I  The computation complexity of H\(I\ \(9\ O\(|I| |S|\. Since s is usually much smaller than |I|, the complexity could be O\(|I|\, which is linear. All constant clusters have zero entropy For example H\(I\(1\nd H\(I\(2\. When merging patterns x 1 3,4,5,6 and x 2 7,8,9,10 the entropy of the merged data cluster increases indicating that the variation / uncertainty of the clusters increases due to the merging. Note that H\(I\ is bounded as 0  H\(I  i  s log m i where m i is the number of possible values of the ith attribute. Hence, H\(I\ \(9\ be normalized     s i i m I H I H log   11  Methods can be applied to analyze the data clusters without being heavily affected by noises and the unrelated data. Essentially, once patterns and data are clustered by pattern clustering in the divide phase, any data analysis techniques can be applied to the obtained data clusters in the conquer phase. A simple technique is proposed for discovering subgroups in a data cluster. To measure the interdependence between attrib utes, a Normalized Mutual Information measure R ij between attributes X i and X j was introduced        j i H j i MI R ij   12 where MI\(i,j\d HI\(i,j\he mutual information and joint entropy between X i and X j respectively. The higher the dependence between attributes X i and X j the higher the MI|i value. R ij 1 if X i and X j are totally dependent, and R ij 0 if they are independent. One advantage of using the normalized mutual information is that a hypothesis test can be formulated to test for the significance of attribute dependence. Two attributes X i and X j are interdependent if    2  1   1  2 j i H I m m R j I ij     13 Otherwise, the two attributes are false To account for the overall significant dependence of an attribute X i with other attributes, the system introduces the sum of normalized interdependency redundancy SR|I| of X i  with other attributes X j for all j, j i, in the data cluster  Thus          N j i j ij R i SR   14 where N  is the set of \(i,j\bute pairs satisfying \(13\. Based on SR\(i\imple recursive algorithm is proposed. A subgrouping tree is used to discover subgroups in a data VI  R ESULTS A ND D ISCUSSIONS  The patient diagnosis data is collected from the UCI machine learning data sets. It is benchmark data set used for data mining researches. The data set has noisy records Redundant and incomplete records are referred as noisy records. Patient identification number and diagnosis details for 10 symptoms of breast cancer are maintained for each patient The data set is provided in University of California Irvin research institute. The data sets are presented in text format  Fitnes s point Analys is Data clus te r Vs Fuzzy clus ter 0 50 100 150 Trans actions Fitness point Fuzzy cluster Data cluster Fuz z y clus ter 69 70 75 83 82 Dat a clus ter 38 42 40 45 43 200 400 600 800 1000   Fig 1. Fitness Point Analysis -3 Clusters 


 Fuzzy pattern cluster scheme for Breast  cancer datasets  414  VII   C ONCLUSION A ND F UTURE D IRECTION  Data clustering is a time consuming and complex task for large data sets. Transaction relationship is used in the pattern extraction and clustering process. This concept is applied in the simultaneous pattern extraction and clustering scheme The pattern extraction is carried out and clustering process is performed with the pattern relationship. Distance measure is the important issue in the clustering process. In the integrated system the distance measure is estimated for the patterns and transaction transfer process is done with the actual transactions The simultaneous pattern extraction and clustering system is implemented to cluster the breast cancer patient diagnosis records. The symptom details are collected from the UCI machine-learning repository. The system is tested with 1000 records in the interval of 200 records. The redundant records removal and incomple te records are correction operations are performed in the preprocessing stage. Pattern extraction, data clustering, pattern clustering and simultaneous clustering operations are tested. The pattern extraction is performed with different support and confidence level The system uses three metrics to analyze the performance of the simultaneous clustering scheme. They are memory, process time and fitness point. The simultaneous clustering scheme requires 40% more memory than the dataclustering scheme. The process time reduced 25% than the data clustering process. The fitness values show that the simultaneous clustering scheme produces more accurate clustering than data clustering scheme The simultaneous pattern extraction and clustering system is implemented to perform the clustering process in minimum time period. The association rule mining techniques are used to fetch frequent items. The pattern extraction process uses the frequent items. The data-clustering scheme is integrated with the pattern clustering mechanism. The system uses the patient diagnosis report for the testing process. The system can be enhanced with the following features: The integrated pattern extraction and clustering scheme is implemented with the K-Means clustering algorithm. The genetic algorithm can be used in the future development. The system can be enhanced to perform the pattern extraction and clustering process on image data collections. The current system is implemented as a stand-alone application. The simultaneous clustering algorithm can be updated for distributed environment R EFERENCES  1  Arun K.Pujari Data mining Techniques University Press, First Edition, 2001 2  Barry Devlin Data Warehouse Architecture to Implementation Addison-Wesley publications, 1997 3  Diana Lorentz Oracle 9i SQL reference Oracle Corporation, 2001 4  Tom Chau and Andrew K.C Pattern Discovery by by Residual Analysis and Recursive Partitioning IEEE 1999 5  Imielinski, T. Virmani, A. Abdoulghani, A. Datamine Application Programming Interface and Query Language for Database mining KDD-1996 6  Andrew K.C. Wong, Fellow, IEEE, and Gary C.L. Li Simultaneous Pattern and Data Clustering for Pattern Cluster Analysis IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data  Engineering, vol. 20, no. 7, July 2008 7  D. Chiu and A.K.C. Wong Multiple Pattern Associations for Interpreting Structural and Functional Characteristics of Biomolecules Information Science, vol. 167, nos. 1-4, pp. 23-29, 2004 8  Yang Wang High-Order Pattern Discovery and Analysis of DiscreteValued Data Sets presented to the University of Waterloo Canada 1997 9  Wai-Ho Au, Keith C.C. Chan Attribute Clustering for Grouping Selection, and Classification of Gene Expression Data IEEE 2005     Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques Kaufmann Publishers, 2001 A UTHORS B IOGRAPHY  D. Vanisri  has  received the Master of  Science in Mathematics in 2001 from Madurai Kamaraj University Then she completed her Master of Philosophy in Mathematics in the year 2003. She has presented many papers in national and international conferences and also guided many UG projects. She has published a paper in international journal. Now she is doing research in the field of Fuzzy clustering and rule mining at Mother Terasa Womenís University, Kodaikannal. Currently she is working as a Lecturer in the Department of Computer Technology and Applications, Kongu Engineerring College, Tamilnadu  Dr.C.Loganathan qualified basically with B.Sc and M.Sc in Mathematics in 1978 and 1980 respectively from Madras University and subsequently with M.Phil and Ph.D in Mathematics from Bharathiar University has served in various capacities as faculty member and Head of the Department of Mathematics at Kongu Engineering College, Perundurai for more than a decade. He is at present working as Principal, Maharaja Arts and Science College, Coimbatore. His unquenchable thirst for academic achievements had culminated in the publication of series of research papers, numbering more than 12 in the leading-referred national and international journals. As a research guide, he has produced many M.Phil and Ph.D candidates. He is a reviewer of many referred international journals. His areas of interest encompass Applied Mathematics, Control Theory, Numerical Methods Quantitative Techniques and Neural Networks. He has co-authored the books on ìQuantitative Methods in Management, Engineering Mathematics I and Engineering Mathematics II      


 83 85 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 Classification Accuracy Coverage threshold The highest accuracy \(Confidence, conviction, Lift, CF Laplace Support   PS   All-confidence   Cosine    2 value   Confidence, conviction, Lift, CF   a Training accuracy 77 79 81 83 85 87 89 91 93 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 Classification Accuracy Coverage threshold The highest accuracy \(Laplace Laplace Support   PS   All-confidence   Cosine    2 value   Confidence, Conviction, Lift, CF   b Testing accuracy Fig 3 The classiìcation accuracies using different interestingness measures with N f  300  various measures and select the most appropriate measure leading to the increase of the classiìcation accuracy R EFERENCES  R Agra w al T  Imielinski and A Sw ami Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases In Proc of the ACM SIGMOD Intêl Conf on Management of Data  pp 207-216 1993  B Liu W  Hsu and Y  Ma Inte grating Classiìcation and Association Rule Mining In Proc of the ACM Intêl Conf on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  pp 80-86 1998  P  T an V  K umar and J Sri v asta v a  Selecting the Right Interestingness Measure for Association Patterns In Proc of the ACM Intêl Conf on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  pp 32-41 2002  P  Lenca P  Me yer  B  V aillant and S Lallich On Selecting Inter estingness Measures for Association Rules User Oriented Description and Multiple Criteria Decision Aid European Journal of Operational Research  No 184 pp 610-626 2008  T  Eguchi K Hirasa w a  J  H u and N Ota A Study of Ev olutionary Multiagent Models Based on Symbiosis IEEE Trans on Systems Man and Cybernetics  Part B Vol.36 No.1 pp 179-193 2006  S Mab u K Hirasa w a and J Hu A Graph-Based Ev olutionary Algorithm Genetic Network Programming GNP and Its Extension Using Reinforcement Learning Evolutionary Computation  MIT Press Vol.15 No.3 pp 369-398 2007  K Hirasa w a  T  Eguchi J Zhou L Y u and S Mark on A DoubleDeck Elevator Group Supervisory Control System Using Genetic Network Programming IEEE Trans on Systems Man and Cybernetics PartC Vol.38 No.4 pp 535-550 2008  X Li S Mab u H Zhou K Shimada and K Hirasa w a   Genetic Network Programming with Estimation of Distribution Algorithms and its Application to Association Rule Mining for Trafìc Prediction In Proc of the ICROS-SICE Intêl Conf  pp 3457-3462 2009  X Li S Mab u H Zhou K Shimada and K Hirasa w a   Genetic Network Programming with Estimation of Distribution Algorithms for Class Association Rule Mining in Trafìc Prediction to appear in Proc of the IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation CEC 2010  Barcelona Spain 2010  X Li S Mab u H Zhou K Shimada and K Hirasa w a   Genetic Network Programming with Estimation of Distribution Algorithms for Class Association Rule Mining in Trafìc Prediction to appear in Journal of Advanced Computational Intelligence and Intelligent Informatics  Vol 14 No 6 2010  R Agra w a l a nd R Srikant F ast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Large Databases In Proc of the 20th VLDB Conf  pp 487499 1999  N P a squier  Y  B astide R T a ouil and L Lakhal Disco v e ring frequent closed itemsets for association rules In Proc of Intêl Conf on Database Theory  pp 398-416 1999  P  T a n a nd V  K u mar  Interestingness Measures for Association P atterns A perspective In Proc of KDD 2000 Workshop on Postprocessing in Machine Learning and Data Mining  2000  R J Bayardo and R Agra w al Mining the Most Interesting Rules In Proc of the ACM Intêl Conf on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  pp 145-154 1999  I J Good The Estimation of Probabilities An Essay on Modern Bayesian Methods MIT Press 1965  P  Clark and R Boswell Rule Induction with cn2 Some recent improvements In Proc of the European Working Session on Learning  pp 151-163 1991  S Brin R Motw ani J D Ullman and S Tsur  Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data In Proc of ACM SIGMOD Intêl Conf on Management of Data  pp 255-264 1997  G Piatetsk y-Shapiro Disco v e ry  A nalysis and Presentation of Strong Rules Knowledge Discovery in Databases  pp 229-248 MIT Press 1991  S Brin R Motw ani and C Silv erstein Be yond Mark et Bask ets Generalizing Association Rules to Correlations In Proc of the ACM SIGMOD Intêl Conf on Management of Data  pp 265-276 1997  C Silv erstein S Brin and R Motw ani Be yond Mark et Bask ets Generalizing Association Rules to Dependence Rules Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  Vol 2 No 1 pp 39-68 1998  E Shortlif fe and B Buchanan A Model of Ine xact Reasoning in Medicine Mathematical Biosciences  Vol 23 pp 351-379 1975  E Omiecinski Alternati v e Interest Measures for Mining Associations IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 15 No 1 pp 57-69 2003  A Agresti Cate gorical Data Analysis John W ile y  Sons 1990 1974 


Capacity for analysis and synthesisé, çResearch skills Capacity to learn 4   Interpersonal skills Leadershipé, çInterpersonal skillsé, çAbility to communicate with non-expertsé, çOral and written communications in native languageé, çCritical and self-critical capabilityé, çTeamworking 5   Personal skills Ability to work autonomously Problem solvingé, çCapacity to adapt to new situations Knowledge of a second languageé, çConcern for qualityé, çWill to succeedé, çElementary computing skillsé, çCapacity for applying knowledge in practice Decision makingé, çProject design and management Information management skills Table 7 shows the mean importance of each gr oup of competences by stakeholder group for the First Cycle Degree respondents. For the employers the personal skills are the most importance group followed by professional skills and interpersonal skills. The table confirms that employers rank internationalisation and entrepreneurship lowest. Academics agree with the order of the competence groups but rate all of them more strongly important than employers. Students also rank the competence groups in the same order but rate internationalisation slightly higher than employers and entrepreneurship very slightly lower Analysis of the level of development of the competenceas shows that there is good agreement that Professional skills are the best developed of the skill groups followed by Personal skills and Interpersonal skills. As with importance the Entrepreneurship and Internationalisation skill groups are developed the least. There is clearly a difference between the rated importance and level of development of these groups in that the Personal skills group is rated most important but the Professional skills group is developed the most. Other than that the general structure of the supply demand balance of the generic competences is quite well aligned V  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  The objective of this study was to apply the Tuning Methodology to the EIE discipline set to test the alignment between the views of the importance and level of development of sets of competences between students, academics and employers. The results of this study show that the Tuning Methodology is a useful tool for assessing alignment in these subjects  TABLE VII  MEAN IMPORTANCE OF EACH GROUP BY STAKEHOLDER  Competence Group Academic Employer Student Internationalization 2.86 2.63 2.79 Entrepreneurship 3.07 3.05 3.02 Interpersonal skills 3.23 3.09 3.06 Professional skills 3.36 3.29 3.13 Personal skills 3.44 3.30 3.29  In total 3,275 questionnaires have been collected from the stakeholder groups from a range of European countries. The number of responses from each c ountry is variable and a full by country analysis is not possible with the responses currently available, that said a range of analyses have been carried out Tests of the homogeneity of the responses across all countries show that there are country differences in some analyses and some of these are explored, others merit further investigation. Many of the analyses presented in this paper are aggregated results and therefore potentially suffer clustering problems. This too is a topic of further investigation The following is a summary of the key conclusions drawn from the analyses presented Consistent top of importance of the generic competences for all stakeholders is çProblem solvingé. Second in the ranking for students is çElementary computing skillsé. Comparatively students under rate the importance of this skill, perhaps it is taken for granted in students than in academics and employers The results show employers value it more than students and this message could be communicated to students A number of gaps exist between the importance and level of development between the stakeholders. The largest gap is Knowledge of a second languageé and the evidence from the languages section suggests this view is strongly aimed at English The generic competences group into 5 sets with çPersonal skillsé rated consistently as the most important set. This is followed, in descending order of importance, by çProfessional skillsé, çInterpersonal skillsé, çInternationalisationé and Entrepreneurshipé. The smallest mean çInternationalisation is just over midway between çweaké and çconsiderableé. Given the European Unionês desire to see greater student and employee mobility across Europe, it is clear there is scope for scope for improvement in the value placed in this skill set by curriculum designers Curriculum designers and academics can take comfort in the finding that çProfessional skillsé are the best developed of the skill gr oups followed by çPersonal sk illsé and Interpersonal skillsé. This not only aligns with the views of employers but aligns with anecdotal evidence on the real purpose of EIE education programmes. That said there is a trend in a number of countries across Europe away from large firm employment towards a Small to Medium Sized Enterprise culture. Curriculum designers may wish to reflect on the fact that entrepreneurial skills are very low in the list and perhaps merit more attention and emphasis in the curricula In general the different stakeholders rate the importance and level of development on average differently. This difference has been taken into account in the conclusions drawn. The general unevenness in ranking reflects different perspectives and is, in itself not considered a major issue, of concern are the relative positions of competences and the relative gaps. In general and even allowing for this employers and academics tend to rate competences higher in importance than students and graduates a number of specific instances of differences are drawn out in section 8 73 


After the text edit has been completed, the paper is ready for the template. Duplicate the template file by using the Save As command, and use the naming convention prescribed by your conference for the name of your paper. In this newly created file, highlight all of the contents and import your prepared text file. You are now ready to style your paper; use the scroll down window on the left of the MS Word Formatting toolbar A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The authors acknowledge the funding provided by the European Union for this project and to the members of the project team for help in collecting questionnaires R EFERENCES   1  European Association for Education in Electrical and Information Enginering http://www.eaeeie.org  2  EIE-Surveyor project http://www.eie-surveyor.org  3  Tuning Report http://tuning.unideusto.org/tuningeu/index.php?option=content&task=vi ew&id=172&Itemid=205  4  Overview of the Bologna Process Ö Implementation in Europe in Electrical and Informaiton Engineetringé, ISBN 2-9516740-3-1, pp 542  74 


              


   


                        





