html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">  1 Diagnostic Enhancements for Air Vehicle HUMS to Increase Prognostic System Effectiveness Romano Patrick  Matthew J. Smith  Bin Zhang*, Carl S. Byington  George J. Vachtsevanos  Romeo Del Rosario     Impact Technologies, LLC 200 Canal View Blvd Rochester, NY 14623 Phone: \(585 romano.patrick, matthew.smith carl.byington}@impact-tek.com Electrical and Computer Engr Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, GA 30332-0250 Phone: \(404 bin.zhang@gatech.edu gjv@ece.gatech.edu  U.S. Army Research Laboratory AMSRD-ARL-SE-RE 2800 Powdermill Rd Adelphi, MD 20783-1197 romeo@arl.army.mil  Abstract  A major objective of Health and Usage Monitoring Systems \(HUMS based part replacement to performing maintenance actions based on evidence of need. While existing HUMS capability has demonstrated progress, the ability to diagnose component faults in their early stages is limited. This is due in part to sensitivity to signal noise, variations in environmental and operating conditions, and underutilization of prognostic techniques. Using the representative example of the fan support bearing in the oil cooler of the UH-60 helicopter, this paper discusses key areas to improve fault detection methods for health monitoring of a damaged helicopter transmission component. These include: \(1 tools, \(2 indicators/features, \(3 feature levels, and \(4 Bayesian estimation framework. Results illustrating the effectiveness of these techniques are presented for fielded UH-60 bearing vibration data and laboratory test results.1 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION.................................................................1 2. DIAGNOSTIC ENHANCEMENTS AND HEALTH BASED PROGNOSTICS.......................................................................2 3. OIL COOLER BEARING FAULTS.......................................2 4. APPROACH........................................................................4 5. DIAGNOSTICS AND FUSION RESULTS...............................6 6. AN ARCHITECTURE FOR THE INTEGRATION OF DIAGNOSTICS AND PROGNOSTICS .......................................8 CONCLUSIONS ....................................................................11 REFERENCES ......................................................................11 BIOGRAPHY ........................................................................12 1. INTRODUCTION In recent years, the U.S. Army has witnessed various helicopter component failures that are currently driving the need for improved health monitoring and fault prediction that will be implemented under the broader initiative for Condition Based Maintenance \(CBM 1 1978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1608, Version 7, Updated January 6, 2009 Department of Defense, known as CBM+. The fault diagnosis and failure prognosis problem for critical helicopter parts/components has been addressed over the years via a variety of model-based and data-driven approaches. Research in this area has focused primarily on the analysis of vibration data and the derivation of condition 


the analysis of vibration data and the derivation of condition indicators, component seeded fault testing and detection/identification of incipient failures. Existing hardware/software health monitoring systems, such as VMEP [1] and IMD-HUMS [2], collect vibration and other pertinent flight regime data, carry out data pre-processing and attempt to detect a fault condition using condition indicators derived via data processing algorithms. These technological developments have led to the collection of onaircraft data and off-board failure analysis studies. They form a valuable component of the knowledge base and data warehousing capabilities required to build an effective CBM+ system. However, with prognosis an underdeveloped element of CBM and Prognostic and Health Management \(PHM remaining useful life of failing components have been limited in number and scope. It is desirable to have a systematic methodology that integrates elements of sensing data analysis, condition indicator selection and extraction fault diagnosis and failure prognosis into a single platform that may be ported to Health and Usage Monitoring Systems HUMS laboratory test platforms, use of prerecorded aircraft data corresponding to known operating conditions, and ultimately, deployment onboard fielded aircraft To specifically address the need for improved fault detection and failure prediction methods, the Army Research Laboratory, Impact Technologies, LLC, and the Georgia Institute of Technology are currently working collaboratively to develop, test and evaluate modular software components that provide enhancements to diagnostic systems already in service, as well as add failure prognosis capabilities for critical Army aircraft components This work is being carried out as part of the three-year  Air Vehicle Diagnostic and Prognostic Improvement Program   AVDPIP software components to complement existing Army HUMS systems so as to provide the Army with tools and an 2 architecture that support the CBM+ goals of improving readiness, safety, and maintainability of assets. Use of these technologies should warn operators and field commanders of impending failure conditions and assist maintainers in optimizing aircraft repair, maintenance and overhaul practices With design of an effective prognostic system as a primary objective, the AVDPIP program is developing what is here referred to as  health based  prognostic algorithms. These algorithms attempt to prognosticate the Remaining Useful Life \(RUL damaged, albeit still functional. The operation of a health based prognostic system will always be preceded by diagnostic operations, and the assessment of remaining life can be performed only after the current health state has been determined and upon establishing the amount of damage present in a degrading component. This is in contrast to performing what we refer to as  usage based  prognostics where the state of the component is not regarded before predicting life remaining. The operation of a usage based prognostic system will typically only take into account the amount of time a component has been operating and the conditions to which it has been subjected throughout that time, thus making at any given instant a worst-case-scenario analysis of the amount of life  consumed  up to that point and determining life remaining from the difference to an amount of life predetermined by design 2. DIAGNOSTIC ENHANCEMENTS AND HEALTH BASED PROGNOSTICS In general, a CBM program calls for transitioning from time based part replacements to performing maintenance upon evidence of need. This requirement is more wholly fulfilled 


evidence of need. This requirement is more wholly fulfilled by the joint operation of diagnostic and health based prognostic systems. For the U.S. Army  s CBM+ plan there is interest in implementing fault detection and PHM algorithms that eliminate use of  time before overhaul   TBO retirement schedules of certain mechanical components in vehicles. Clearly, the first step in reducing dependency on TBO definitions is to implement effective fault detection technologies. It is widely documented how detecting serious faults in a variety of rotorcraft components before they fail completely is possible, most notably utilizing vibration based diagnostics in aircraft HUMS. Arguably, however the ability of some techniques to diagnose component faults in their early stages in vehicle drive systems is limited, and as will be discussed below, this limitation presents an opportunity to implement advanced detection techniques Another means to support the elimination of TBO-based maintenance decisions is the implementation of health based prognostics. However, the task of prognosis is often underrepresented in the field, partly because effective health based prognostic systems require more robust and reliable diagnostics of incipient faults than is sometimes available The ability of diagnostic systems to detect early-stage faults is limited to some extent by the sensitivity of data processing, fault detection, root cause classification to signal noise, specific component fault modes, and variations in environmental and operating conditions \(such as loads speeds, flight regimes, etc  potential to improve vehicle health monitoring algorithms such that they become more insensitive to signal noise and to changes in environmental/operating conditions. Since early detection is a key requirement for the implementation of effective prognostic algorithms, techniques that can mitigate the effects of noise and environmental/operating conditions, as well as perform fault identification, pose themselves as a prerequisite for making prognostic technologies more ubiquitous. This paper reviews a number of these techniques. Some of the enabling technologies include: \(1 useful fault information from raw sensor data, \(2 and extraction of optimum condition indicators/features, \(3 fusion of data at the sensor and feature levels, and \(4 Bayesian estimation techniques to manage uncertainty and meet strict accuracy, precision and reliability performance metrics 3. OIL COOLER BEARING FAULTS A representative example of the challenges described above is given by a fan support bearing of the oil cooling subsystem of the H-60 series of helicopters currently in service for the U.S. Army. The oil cooler bearings were selected as the component of focus for this study due to their criticality and the potential availability of data collected from a variety of helicopters in service. In addition, these components have been previously studied and their diagnosis has been deemed to be of interest [4 The transition from time-based \(using TBO definitions condition-based maintenance for this bearing is of interest due to the criticality of the component and the relatively high incidence of replacements and faults [5]. A key enabling factor of the safe transition to effective CBM can clearly result from the implementation of a bearing life prognostic system. However, as mentioned earlier, to be most effective, the operation of such a prognostic system must be preceded by, and integrated with, enhanced diagnostic algorithms capable of detecting a fault in its early stages of development. These diagnostic operations should perform robustly even in the presence of the multiple kinds of disturbances affecting data acquired by HUMS sensors The oil cooler is a core component of the H-60 tail rotor drive train assembly whose primary function is to cool the 


drive train assembly whose primary function is to cool the helicopter transmission lubricant while transmitting power to the tail rotor drive shaft through the oil cooler shaft. It sits in the downdraft of the main rotor wash, and uses a fan to force air through a radiator for efficient cooling. The tail rotor drive train consists of a drive shaft that transfers 3 torque from the main transmission to the oil cooler drive shaft and then to a series of drive shaft sections and the intermediate gear box before propelling the tail rotor gear box. This arrangement is shown in Figure 1 The Oil Cooling System The components of the oil cooler, illustrated in Figure 2, are centered on a splined shaft supported at the front by two shielded cartridge bearings, and in the rear by a viscous damper bearing. The oil cooler fan assembly consists of a multi-bladed rotor housed inside a concentric stator. The shields of the bearings contain the grease supply and protect this latter against contaminants such as dust and debris  Figure 2. H-60 oil cooler components Fault analysis of the oil cooler carries high relevance since a failure to effectively regulate drive train temperature may eventually lead to expansion and freezing of the drive shaft and catastrophic power loss on the tail rotor. Although there is potential for the heavily-loaded splined oil cooler shaft to develop cracks, the components most prone to failure are the shielded cartridge bearings supporting the cooling fan These are deep-groove, grease-packed ball bearings for standard mobility applications, with an inner bore diameter of approximately 2 inches and 10 balls, and are specified to ABEC-1. A pair of identical bearings \(fore/aft the fan shaft of the oil cooler assembly Bearings with heavily contaminated grease and exhibiting corrosion on the raceways, balls and cage surfaces have been found in the field in multiple instances \(see, for example, [5 Grease breakdown and wash-out are also fault modes of concern. Figure 3 illustrates some of these fault modes  Figure 3. Oil cooler bearing failure potential: debris ingestion \(left right Once it was determined that the fore fan support bearing was a failure-prone component susceptible to water-based Figure 1. H-60 drive train assembly \(From  Technical Manual, Aviation Unit and Intermediate  Maintenance for Army Models UH60A, UH60L, and EH60A Helicopters  U.S. Army TM 1-1520-237-23-4, May 29, 1998 4 corrosion, the Army translated the OEM  s 5-year life specification to a 2000-hour life limit. Nevertheless, it is believed that such a number is overly conservative, since operating temperatures drive out water vapor, and failure is unlikely under the observed corrosion conditions and the support of the back bearing. Still, with no substantial backing of this claim, the Army is concerned with the prospect of having to service a multiplicity of platforms as the 2000-hour life limit approaches. Due to the prospects for life extension,, there is great potential benefit in the development of a reliable monitoring and condition assessment system for the oil cooler bearings Bearing Fault Effects and Monitoring The phenomenon of rolling contact fatigue has been long known to be a leading contributor to the failure of rolling element bearings. This failure mode is instigated by the cycling loading profile generated by the Hertzian contact forces rotating circumferentially about the ball/raceway during bearing motion. The resulting sub-surface stress cycles eventually lead to the flaking away of raceway material referred to as  spalling  Once a spall is present on the bearing raceway, the continued stress cycles will result in the loss of additional material and growth of the spall 


in the loss of additional material and growth of the spall Once a raceway spall reaches a size deemed harmful to the safe, reliable operation of the system, the bearing is said to be failed Previous bearing studies and practical usage experience have indicated that the presence of raceway surface corrosion can greatly accelerate the spalling process. The accepted physical explanation for this effect is that the formation of corrosive pitting on the raceway provides an ideal location for spall initiation. It is also very likely that the brittling effects of corrosive degradation accelerate the rate of spall growth. The combined corrosive/fatigue degradation of roller bearings is a failure mode of great interest in bearing systems that are exposed to environmental conditions such as moisture and humidity that instigate the corrosive process Helicopter drive train and accessory bearings are particularly susceptible to this failure mode, and the H-60 oil cooler fan bearings are no exception. These components can operate in highly corrosive environments, and events like salt water induction or depot washdowns can lead to high levels of corrosive degradation. There is the potential for this corrosion to contribute to the early spalling and eventual failure of the bearing. As mentioned earlier, this component has been deemed a good candidate for the study and development of bearing diagnostic enhancement technologies and health based prognostics, and the failure mode described above is the focus of this paper The fault modes of the oil cooler bearing described have been shown to be detectable through vibration analysis [6 The predominant sensing scheme consists of accelerometers mounted on the oil cooler housing. Vibration data for bearing fault detection consists of time series of accelerometer readings. When a spall has initiated, bearing specific frequencies associated with the location of the defect are excited. However, for the case of corrosion, it is expected that multiple frequencies, or even wideband excitation, will be present. The amplitude and time duration of the defect frequency are expected to be indications of defect severity. Various features or condition indicators both in the time and frequency domain, are expected to serve as a means for detecting these faults, in agreement with standard vibration based bearing health monitoring 4. APPROACH As described earlier, to arrive at an architecture that offers reliable fault detection and accurate assessments of the remaining useful life of the components, enhanced diagnostic and prognostic algorithms must be implemented The AVDPIP program is focusing on developing a set of software components that provide diagnostic enhancements and failure prognosis algorithms. The effectiveness of these components will be tested initially on diagnosing and prognosticating damage on oil cooler bearings. Although these developments are currently ongoing, this paper reports on progress made and some preliminary results. The results were derived from two kinds of data: \(1 aircraft data provided by the U.S. Army, and \(2 vibration data generated by Impact Technologies through its in-house high-speed bearing test rig A hybrid and systematic approach to sensing, data processing, fault feature extraction, fault diagnosis, and failure prognosis has been utilized with the two vibration data sets. The system architecture contains generic components/algorithms building on model based and data driven methodologies that will eventually be transferable to other critical helicopter systems/components, as illustrated in Figure 4 While a specific example was used to demonstrate the developments and achievements of the base period of performance of AVDPIP, the algorithms and methodologies for performing enhanced feature extraction and fusion 


developing and combining data-driven and model-based approaches for system health assessments, and managing uncertainty, will be transferable to a wide variety of components and platforms Collection and Assessment of Component Data One of the initial tasks that the AVDPIP team performed was the search for data adequately characterizing a system operating at fault. Table 1 lists the different characteristics sought in the data to ensure that the data was adequate and representative. The data listed can be classified in two types: system configuration and use data \(contained in clear cells of the table contained in 5 colored cells obtain data that meets all the listed characteristics. Different sources of data will meet different requirements in the list This paper places focus on two of the available data sets that meet most of the listed requirements The first data set of interest corresponds to the vibration signals of an oil cooler fan support bearing from an H-60 helicopter in recent service. The bearing vibration exhibited abnormal, increasing levels on multiple condition indicators calculated by the VMEP HUMS system. The bearing was eventually replaced \(in June of 2007 logistics records of the U.S. Army The second data set of focus in this paper corresponds to vibration data collected from a bearing test rig. This data corresponds to an industrial bearing exhibiting a progressing spall. This bearing is being considered as a surrogate for illustrative purposes, since it provides sufficient data to illustrate some of the techniques discussed in the present document Diagnostic Enhancement Algorithms The main goal of the AVDPIP program is not to develop an entirely new diagnostic system, but rather to develop techniques that can be utilized by the Army to improve the performance of their diagnostic systems already in use. The techniques listed below were thus implemented and have been used to obtain the results of the corresponding sections  ImpactEnergy  Shock Pulse Amplification software utilizing a multi-step signal processing routine prior to feature extraction that increases the visibility of shock-pulse events indicative of specific bearing faults, thus uncovering frequency spectrum peaks that are otherwise hidden in the broadband spectrum, and allowing for detection of faults in their incipient state  Table 1. Data characteristics of interest to characterize oil cooler bearing faults. The data in cells with an asterisk also colored Background and specifications Operational Maintenance and field records Vibration data General characteristics of oil cooler Installation and operation characteristics loads, speeds lubrication, etc Bearing maintenance practices replacement inspection/tests 


inspection/tests lubrication cleaning, etc Vibration data specifications frequency, sensor type preprocessing done, units Mechanical configuration of oil cooler and bearings including basic geometry and loads Typical operating environmental conditions and possible variations  Fault/failure incidence rates for bearings and sub-components Data to tie vibration data to records of use/maintenance to assess bearing operating conditions \(e.g helicopter No bearing serial Design data and specifications of bearings materials capacity lubricant, etc Characteristics and locations of sensors accels tachometer and mounting techniques Maintenance actions relating to usage records e.g., events triggering maintenance and correspondence to specific usage records Vibration data for different accelerometer positions, health conditions \(healthy bearings and different faults and operating regimes Bearing models variants used 


variants used and their differences History of use of individual bearings operating regimes environments etc Usage and logistics data removals repairs, etc and operating conditions of individual components Supporting measurements load, temperature tachometer, etc Figure 4. Overview of the technical approach of the AVDPIP program Time Present MTTF Prediction X Confid Pf X% Precision Hazard Lines Hazard Lines 1.0  Raw data Datadriven CI  s Fusion Physics-offailure mechanisms Modelbased CI  s Damage progression mechanisms Diagnostics current health state Prognostics future health state Usage operating conditions 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5TSA of Vibration Experience FMECA RCM 6  Use of an Active Band Selection \(ABS maximizes fault detection by using techniques to identify the best regions of the broadband spectrum to perform fault frequency demodulation \(potential system resonances  Feature fusion techniques to combine multiple feature values into a single indicator that maximizes fault class separation, increases fault detection confidence and simplifies threshold metrics  Sensor fusion techniques to combine the vibration signatures of multiple sensors to decrease the effects of random noise and increase visibility of subtle signs of fault  A methodology to detect as early as possible with 


 A methodology to detect as early as possible with specified degree of confidence and prescribed false alarm rate an anomaly or novelty \(incipient failure  5. DIAGNOSTICS AND FUSION RESULTS The techniques discussed above were applied to two bearing vibration datasets. The first dataset was obtained from an H-60 rotorcraft that experienced an oil cooler related event occurring around the 2006 to 2007 timeframe Unfortunately the available maintenance information did not provide specific indication of the motivation for this action. Since this rotorcraft data example lacks ground truth information as to the nature of the fault and the aircraft data only includes one sensor, results from a second bearing dataset are presented to further demonstrate the techniques reviewed in this paper. Such second dataset was generated on an experimental test stand using a surrogate bearing with data from three accelerometers H-60 Dataset The ImpactEnergy  software package was applied to the H-60 dataset. A full feature set was calculated that included statistical time domain metrics and frequency domain energy based quantities. For the purpose of comparison, a set of conventional features were derived using the raw vibration data prior to the data processing operations. One such set is here reported, with other exhibiting comparable results. Figure 5 provides feature trend plots for an inner race fault frequency of both the conventional broadband and ImpactEnergy conditioned vibration data. Note that all feature values have been normalized on a 0-1 scale. The feature plots clearly demonstrate a generally increasing trend of feature values with a larger jump in magnitude experienced in mid 2006. The feature values obtained after the ImpactEnergy processing experience lower levels of variance than those from the conventional domain. This effect is most clearly observed in the earlier, presumed healthier data While the exact location and nature of the event that instigated the vibration signature change is unknown, the inner race fault frequency provided a clearer trend than any of the other component frequencies \(outer race, ball pass cage by the short duration of the time samples available, it is unclear if this fault frequency response is due to a fault condition located on the inner race or merely a general increase in the energy recorded by the accelerometer  Figure 5. Inner Race Trends for H-60 Vibration Data Surrogate Test Bearing Dataset The dataset obtained from a test rig in house at Impact Technologies provides the opportunity to better demonstrate some of the diagnostic enhancements presented in this paper. The data corresponds to bearing vibration signals for tests with damage progression \(run to failure with a naturally occurring spall.  Four blocks of data with varying spall sizes are available for 3 different sensors.  A total of 8 one-second-long vibration snapshots were analyzed for each of the four blocks. The data has ground truth information that can be used to identify baseline incipient fault, and progressed fault data. Also, the presence of multiple accelerometers provides an opportunity to implement sensor fusion techniques The Active Band Selection \(ABS the bearing vibration data. In Figure 6 the feature results for the ABS algorithm are presented for a range of potential carrier frequencies. The analysis identified six potential frequencies to use for the center frequency of the ImpactEnergy demodulation process. System knowledge was used to eliminate four of these that were known to be in regions where noise was likely to distort feature extraction results. The leading candidate of the remaining frequencies 23.5 kHz, was used for all ImpactEnergy feature extraction 


23.5 kHz, was used for all ImpactEnergy feature extraction 7  Figure 6. ABS Feature Results In this case, the fault was clearly identified as a spall located on the inner race of the bearing. Therefore, the inner race fault frequency would be expected to be a key piece of evidence for fault detection. Figure 7 provides the inner race fault feature trends obtained for the conventional and ImpactEnergy spectra  Figure 7. Effect of IE Processing on Detection Again, all feature values are normalized on a 0-1 scale While the conventional feature provides good indication of the progressed fault condition, the resulting detection threshold results in several cases of false alarms and missed detection. The feature value trend obtained after the signal processing process provides clear separation of the baseline incipient fault and progressed fault classes. As illustrated in the trend plot, thresholds can be created for this feature that provide fault detection without error as well as a fault severity assessment To further improve the performance of the inner race feature, feature fusion was used to combine the three best performing features into a single health index. Due to the small number of data samples available to refine the fused feature, a simple linear projection was created using principal component analysis \(PCA linear algebra reduces data dimensionality while retaining the most critical information. The resulting fused feature Figure 8 classes than is observed in the inner race feature alone  Figure 8. Fused Feature Trend Plot Finally, sensor fusion was attempted to further enhance the fault response of the inner race feature. The bearing test rig collects sensor data in three locations. Two of these measurements are taken in close proximity to the test specimen. The third accelerometer is located far from the test specimen in close proximity to another bearing. It is not expected that this distant accelerometer would provide useful information about subtle faults present in the test bearing. All features presented so far were derived from the radial sensor near the specimen. To demonstrate sensor fusion, three techniques: beamforming, principal component analysis and the SUMPLE algorithm were applied to the time domain data from the two closest accelerometers [8 The resulting feature trends obtained from data derived from each fusion technique are presented in Figure 9. The inner race feature extracted from the radial sensor only is provided for reference purposes   Figure 9. Inner Race Feature Sensor Fusion Results The results show that there was no observed benefit from sensor fusion using any of the three techniques. In this case the information gained from the axial sensor does not provide additional evidence of the fault condition. Note that the beamforming and SUMPLE results display the undesirable effect of a slight increase in feature variance These results demonstrate that the benefit of sensor fusion is 8 highly dependent on the quality of the information obtained from each individual sensor, and if not done carefully can actually decrease the usefulness of the extracted features 6. AN ARCHITECTURE FOR THE INTEGRATION OF DIAGNOSTICS AND PROGNOSTICS Figure 10 depicts an architecture for advanced detection and prognosis. In this architecture, sensor measurements and operational parameters are input in real time. Data is preprocessed to reduce the effect of noise, before computing condition indicators or features indicative of a component  s 


condition indicators or features indicative of a component  s health Using the features and a model describing the component  s degrading state, fault detection and failure prognostic algorithms based on particle filtering are applied [7 Statistical analysis is implemented to evaluate the probability of a fault being present. When the fault is detected with a given confidence level, the prognostic algorithm is activated to predict the remaining useful life RUL only a convenient compromise between data-driven and model-based techniques, but also the means to evaluate performance with statistical indices. Moreover, the particle filtering based algorithm provides a means to deal efficiently with nonlinear and non-Gaussian noise. The nonlinear dynamic state model described by \(1     1 ,1 2 ,2 2 1 ,2 1   1  1       1 0 , if 1 0 0 1  0 1 , else 0 0 0 d d b d d c c d c T T T b T d d c x t x t f n t x t x t x t x t x t t y t x t v t x x f x x x x          1 where fb is a non-linear mapping, xd,1 and xd,2 are Boolean states that indicate normal and faulty conditions respectively. The paramter xc is the continuous-valued state that represents the fault dimension, w\(t t mean Gaussian noise signals, n\(t identically distributed \(i.i.d time-varying model parameter that describes the propagation of the fault dimension under a fatigue stress dependent on the loading profile that is being applied to the specimen under consideration This approach provides a recursively updated estimate of the probability for each fault condition considered in the analysis. These estimated probabilities may activate alarm 


analysis. These estimated probabilities may activate alarm indicators if they exceed appropriate thresholds for the probability of detection \(typically 90% or 95 particularly useful approach when the normal operation of a system is defined through a dynamic state-space model. It is  Sensor Data 0 5 1 1 5 2 Preprocessing Fault Detection 50 100 150 200 250 3 3.5 4 4.5 PF Detection Routine: GAG =246 50 100 150 200 250 0 0.5 1 Probability of Failure 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 0 2 4 x 10-3 Type I Error = 5%. Type II Error =1.9577 Fisher Discriminant Ratio =12.1834 Operating conditions and inputs Diagnostic Model  1   1    Features    d b d c t d c t d c x t f x t n t x t f x t x t t t h x t x t v t     Features &amp performance Feature Extraction 0 1 00 2 00 30 0 400 500 6 00 70 0 80 0 9 00 100  In terp o la t io n  o f fe a tu re  va lue  w ith  no is e In terp o la t io n  o f fe a tu re  vla ue s nap s h ot  w ith  gro un d t ru th  da ta Prognostic Model 1  Failure Prognosis Figure 10. Proposed architecture for the integration of diagnostics and prognostics 9 also important to note that this diagnostic framework allows for estimation of each of the system  s continuous-valued states as a probability density function \(pdf computed at the moment of fault detection, and provided as initial conditions to the prognostic routines, thus giving a suitable insight to the inherent uncertainty in the prediction problem When a fault is detected, the prognostic algorithm is activated. Prognosis may be understood as the result of the procedure where long-term \(multi-step  


procedure where long-term \(multi-step  describing the evolution in time of a fault indicator  are generated with the purpose of estimating the remaining useful life \(RUL approaches related to prognosis may be found in the literature. Few of them, however, offer appropriate tools for real-time estimation of the RUL as a continuous function of time A two-level procedure has been developed to address the failure prognosis problem. This procedure intends to reduce the uncertainty associated with long-term predictions by using the current state pdf estimate and a nonlinear dynamic state-space model. In the first level, p-step ahead predictions are generated based on an a priori estimate, adjusting their associated probabilities according to the noise model structure. A second level uses these predictions and the definition of critical thresholds to estimate the RUL pdf also referenced to as the time-to-failure pdf When the prognosis algorithm is implemented, the pdf of fault detection is used as the initial pdf to run the prognostic algorithm. The model for prognosis is developed using a Paris Law realtionship. For the bearings in focus, a fault is modeled as a quantified surface area of defect, denoted as D, such that nDC dt d D D    0          2   which states that the rate of defect growth is related to the instantaneous defect area D under a steady operating condition. C0 and n are material dependent coefficients. In discrete time form, we have     3 Results with Surrogate Bearing Data The following results are applied to the surrogate bearing data set only, since the fault size \(ground truth for this data set. As indicated earlier, 32 vibration snapshots are present in this data set, with 16 baseline \(healthy points and eight points from each of two \(spall Hence, 32 feature values are generated. To run failure prognosis, artificial data in-between these data points must be generated. The available vibration data correspond to different service hours. From these points, we interpolate the data according to service time in terms of minutes. This way, enough data points can be generated to run the failure prognosis algorithms. Figure 11 shows the ground truth data and times of available vibration snapshots. Interpolation of the ground truth points is used to assign spall sizes to the vibration snapshots. Figure 12 shows the time-based interpolation of feature values. From these two interpolations, we can estimate the expected feature values corresponding to different fault sizes and generate a feature progression curve as shown in Figure 13 Results of Failure Prognosis Since the data is interpolated in terms of minutes, the RUL expectation and 95% confidence interval are also given in minutes. Long-term predictions are provided after fault is detected and using the current estimate for the state pdf as initial condition. Results are depicted in Figure 14 through Figure 16 Figure 14 shows the minute at which the fault is detected Before this time instant, the prognostic routines are disabled. As soon as the fault is detected, the pdf estimates at that time are used as the initial conditions for the prognostic routines, as shown in Figure 15. When a new measurement comes in, the prognostic algorithms will provide an estimate of the remaining useful life. Figure 16 shows the result at the 350th minute The comparison between actual time-to-failure and estimated time-to-failure is shown in Figure 17. The red vertical line is the time at which the system fails, while the black line is the actual time-to-failure. The magenta line is 


black line is the actual time-to-failure. The magenta line is the expected value of the estimated pdf and the blue line is defined as the lower bound of the 95% \(just-in-time window around the expected value [9   Figure 11. Timeline showing ground truth points and interpolated spall sizes for available vibration snapshots 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.1 Time \(min Sp a ll S iz e  m m 2  Interpolation of spall size groundtruth spall size snapshot with data available 10  Figure 12. Interpolation of fault dimension and feature vector  Figure 13. Interpolation of fault dimension according to feature values  Figure 14. Diagnostic result when a fault is detected  Figure 15. Initial prognostic estimation right after the fault is first detected  Figure 16. Failure prognosis at the 350th minute of bearing operation 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 R e m a in in g Li fe  m in  


 Current Time \(min  Healthy Failure Expected Just-in-time line Actual Remaining Life  Figure 17. Results of failure prognosis 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 Time \(min Sp al l S iz e  m m 2 Interpolation of spall growth according to feature values 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 Time \(min Fe a tu re V a lu e    Interpolation of feature value with noise Interpolation of feature vlaue snapshot with ground truth data 11 CONCLUSIONS This paper shows that enhancements to diagnostic techniques are desirable as well as attainable additions to Health and Usage Monitoring Systems \(HUMS particularly in the case of rotorcraft component monitoring Enhancements like those presented support CBM efforts primarily in two ways: reduce the sensitivity of diagnostic processes to both signal noise and variations in environmental and operating conditions, and improve the performance of detection systems as well as the task of fault identification \(e.g., severity quantification instantiation of reliable prognostics Representative examples, motivated by the interest of the U.S. Army in transitioning from time-based \(using TBO definitions drive train bearing, illustrates the potential benefits of 


pursuing an integrated approach to diagnostics and prognostics, combining technologies for enhanced data preprocessing, advanced diagnostic-support algorithms, fusion at the sensor/feature levels, and an adequate framework for false alarm mitigation and uncertainty management. An architecture for achieving such integration is presented, with emphasis on supporting a robust performance of diagnostics operations, even in the presence of such kinds of disturbances as those observed in data acquired by HUMS vibration sensors. The present study also gives relevance to seeded fault because the technologies discussed can integrate knowledge about damage mechanism interactions or physics-of-failure models, as well as make use of multiple-sensor and multiple-feature data sets representative of known fault conditions For this reason, the team behind this project is evaluating a potential opportunity to perform a series of tests on rotorcraft drive train bearings with varying fault severities and under multiple, though realistic, operating conditions Such tests are being planned to provide algorithm/model validations, as well as diagnostic/prognostic performance assessments, in support of providing the U.S. Army with technologies that make detection systems more robust allow for the implementation of prognostics, and extend the useful life of drive train components. Component degradation testing thus remains as future, follow-up work to the research reported in this document ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work has been partially supported with a cooperative agreement by the Army Research Laboratory under contract number W911NF-07-2-0075. In addition to the primary authors, we would like to thank government and contractor representatives from organizations supporting the Army Utility \(Blackhawk Estes, Mr. Carlos Rivera, and Dr. Jon Keller. This work has also benefitted greatly from consultations with other Army Research Laboratory and NASA Glenn researchers such as Dr. Timothy Krantz, Dr. David Lewicki, Dr. Harry Decker Dr. Hiralal Khatri, Mr. Ken Ranney and Mr. Kwok Tom REFERENCES 1] Branhof, R.W., Grabill, P., Grant, L., and Keller, J.A  Application of Automated Rotor Smoothing Using Continuous Vibration Measurements  American Helicopter Society 61st annual forum, Grapevine, Texas June 1  3, 2005 2] Dora, R., Wright, J., Hess, R., and Boydstun, B  Utility of the IMD HUMS in an Operational Setting on the UH60L Blackhawk  American Helicopter Society 60th annual forum, Baltimore, Maryland, May 7  10, 2004 3] Zakrajsek, J.J., Dempsey, P.J., et al  Rotorcraft Health Management Issues and Challenges  NASA report TM  2006-214022. February, 2006 4] Suggs, D.T., and Wade, D.R  Vibration Based Maintenance Credits for the UH-60 Oil Cooler Fan Assembly  American Helicopter Society, CBM Specialists Meeting, Huntsville, Alabama, February 13 2008 5] Baker, C., Marble, S., Morton, B.P., and Smith, B.J  Failure Modes and Prognostic Techniques for H-60 Tail Rotor Drive System Bearings  IEEEAC paper #1122 IEEE, 2007 6] Keller, J.A., Branhof, R., Dunaway, D., and Grabill, P  Examples of Condition Based Maintenance with the Vibration Management Enhancement Program   American Helicopter Society 61st Annual Forum Grapevine, Texas, June 1  3, 2005 7] Zhang, B., Sconyers, C., Byington, C.S., Patrick, R Orchard, M.E., and Vachtsevanos, G.J  Anomaly Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of 


Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of Unanticipated Faults  International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management, Denver, Colorado October 6-9, 2008 8] Byington, C.S., Watson, M., Lee, H., and Hollins, M  Sensor-level Fusion to Enhance Health and Usage Monitoring Systems  American Helicopter Society, 64th Annual Forum, Montreal, Canada, April 29-May 1, 2008 9] Engel, S.J., Gilmartin, B.J., Bongort, K., and Hess, A  Prognostics, the Real Issues Involved With Predicting Life Remaining  Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, Montana, March 18-25, 2000 12 BIOGRAPHY Romano Patrick is a Project Manager at Impact Technologies. He received a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology specializing in model-based machine health diagnostics and prognostics. He also holds an MBA from Georgia Tech and degrees from U Texas, Arlington and U. Panamericana, Mexico. With career focus on interdisciplinary integration of technologies, his recent work involves practicable diagnostics/prognostics design for complex systems, such as rotorcraft drive trains Past experience includes automation and design for a variety of industrial and government sponsors \(DARPA, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, etc and program coordination at U. Panamericana, and some entrepreneurial R&amp;D Matthew J. Smith is a Senior Project Engineer at Impact Technologies. During his tenure with Impact, Matthew has performed multiple efforts pertaining to bearing vibration analysis, diagnostic and prognostic system development, and experimental study of faulted system reponse and fault progression. Previously, as a research assistant at Penn State and the NASA Glenn Research Center, Matthew performed experimental and analytical oil-free bearing analyses Matthew received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from The Pennsylvania State University. His research interests include: prognostic health assessment for bearing and actuator systems, grease degradation modeling and fault classifier development Bin Zhang received his Ph.D. degree from Nanyang Technological University, Singapore in 2007. He received his BE and MSE degrees from Nanjing University of Science and Technology, China, in 1993 and 1999, respectively. He is a senior member of IEEE. From 2005 to present, he has been a Post-Doc with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta GA His current research interests are fault diagnosis and failure prognosis, systems and control, digital signal processing learning control, intelligent systems and their applications to robotics, power electronics and various mechanical systems Carl S. Byington is a Professional Engineer and the Director of Systems Engineering at Impact Technologies. He directs R&amp;D in pursuit of advanced, automated systems health management for land-based, shipboard, and airborne machinery for military and commercial customers. He is Chairman of the Machinery Diagnostics &amp; Prognostics Committee of ASME and a member of IEEE, AIAA, SAE and AHS. He has a BS degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and an MS in Aeronautical Engineering from George Washington University, and has published over 60 papers, book chapters, magazine and journal articles related to diagnostics and prognostics technologies George Vachtsevanos is Professor Emeritus at the Georgia Institute of Technology and also serves as the Chief Scientist at Impact Technologies, LLC. He directed the Intelligent Control Systems laboratory at Georgia Tech for the past 28 years where faculty and students are conducting research in fault diagnosis/prognosis and fault-tolerant control of engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial 


engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial processes, neurotechnology and cardiotechnology, and unmanned systems. His research work has been sponsored by government and industry and has published over 250 technical papers in his area of expertise. He is the lead author of a book on "Intelligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis of Engineering Systems" published by Wiley in 2006. He is the recipient of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Activities award and the ECE Distinguished Professor award Romeo de la Cruz del Rosario, Jr. is the Chief of the Electronics Technology Branch at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. He also serves as the Army Technology Objective ATO P&amp;D Operational Readiness and Condition Based Maintenance He received the B.E.E. degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and the M.S.E. and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Since 1991 he has been an engineer at the Harry Diamond Laboratory then U.S Army Research Laboratory working in several areas including high power microwave technology characterization &amp; modeling of heterostructure RF devices and fabrication and failure analysis of electron devices and circuits  pre></body></html 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





