   1 COTS Implementation of a Sensor Planning Service GetFeasibility Operation - Interim Status #2 David Kaslow Analytical Graphics, Inc 200 Valley Creek Blvd Exton, PA 19341 610-981-8205 dkaslow@agi.com  Abstract 227This paper reports on the progress of the design and implementation of a Web-based Sensor Planning Service \(SPS DescribeTasking and GetFeasibility operations for optical and radar Earth imaging spacecr aft.  The design is founded on Analytical Graphics CO TS Components capabilities and Standard Object Catalog \(SOC The SOC is a community-driven library of spacecraft with accurate and thorough descripti 
ons of mission capabilities Each SOC entry consists of a searchable description and an STK scenario containing the spacecraft and its imaging payloads Progress is also reported on the design and implementation of interactions between a FireSat SysML model and AGI Components.  The FireSat system consists of users, mission satellites, communications satellites, and ground stations The SysML model is used to carry out trade studies of system design, performance, and cost  AGI Components provides accessibility and coverage metrics 1  2  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I 
NTRODUCTION 1  2  S ENSOR P LANNING S ERVICE 3  3  COTS  SPS  U SE C ASE 4  4  S TANDARD O BJECT C ATALOG D ATA AND 
O BJECTS 6  5  COTS  SPS  P ROTOTYPING 9  6  F IRE S AT S YS ML   AGI  C OMPONENTS I NTERFACE   P ROTOTYPING 9 
 7  C URRENT S TATUS AND F UTURE P LANS 12  8  C ONCLUSIONS 14  R EFERENCES 1\4  B IOGRAPHY 14  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS 14 
 1  I NTRODUCTION  Figure 1 is an overview of the two subjects of this paper 
200  SysML modeling of a FireSat satellite system The Open Geospatial Consortium \(OGC 256 Web Enablement \(SWE\itiative, described in Section 2 
200  Web-Based Commercial Off the Shelf Sensor Planning Service \(COTS SPS 1   1 978-1-4244-7351-9/11 26.00 \2512011 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1264, Version 3, Updated January 10, 2011  
provides a collection of standards for interacting with a network of Web-connected sensors and sensor systems 
200  Sensor Planning Service 200  Sensor Observation Service 200  Sensor Alert Service The OGC SPS operations include 200  GetCapabilities 200  DescribeTasking 200  GetFeasiblity 200  Submit \(tasking 200  DescribeResults \(of tasking The Prototype COTS SPS, based on the OGC SPS and described in Section 5, is made up of the following operations 200  
Spacecraft Capabilities Request and Response 
200  Tasking Definition Request and Response 200  Acquisition Feasiblity Request and Response The use-case for the COTS SPS is in Section 3 The COTS SPS uses the Standard Object Catalog \(SOC described in Section 4, as a source of optical and radar imaging satellite models The imaging payload descriptions includes spectral coverage if optical, operating ba nd if radar, and resolution Also included are the field of view and field of regard which are used by AGI components to determine feature of interest access and coverage metrics SysML modeling of a hypothetical FireSat satellite system is described in Section 6 
 


   2  COTS Web-Based Sensor Planning Service \(SPS AGI Standard Object Catalog \(SOC Existing Optical Radar Satellites Imaging Payload Characteristics and Models  Request and Response GetCapabilities DescribeTasking GetFeasibility  AGI Components COTS Capabilities  OCG Sensor Web Enablement Initiative Standards for Interacting with Web-Connected Sensors  Interface  FireSat Satellite System SysModel  Detect, Identify and Monitor Forest Fires SysML Modeling Trade Studies  AGI  Components  COTS Capabilities  Setup of Scenario Elements Mission Satellites and Payloads Relay Satellites and Ground Stations Features of Interest e.g. Continental U.S Request and Response Feature Accessibility and Coverage  Interface Similar Schema Figure 1. Overview of the Two Subject Areas of this Paper The subject areas have a commonality in the use of AGI Components and satellite/ payload schema 
 


   3 SysML is a domain-specific modeling language for systems engineering that can accommoda te the integration of an engineering model\222s inputs and outputs The FireSat system consists of users, mission satellites communication satellites, and gr ound stations.  The FireSat SysML model interacts with AGI Components to carryout trade studies on FireSat system elements.  The interaction consists of 
200  SysML model setup of a FireSat scenario elements cache within the interf ace to AGI Components 200  SysML model accessibility a nd coverage requests for selected scenario elements 200  AGI Components assessibity and coverage responses The two subjects of this paper have in common the use of Analytical Graphics COTS Components capabilties to determine feature of interest access and coverage metrics Additionally, the schema used to communicate imaging payload capablities between the FireSat SysML model and AGI Compoents is based on the SOC schema for describing imaging payloads The COTS SPS is based on the mission satellites and imaging residing in the SOC.  FireSat modeling is based on mission satellites and imaging payloads characterized by the user specifying modeling parameters The COT SPS determines coverage of a single mission satellite.  The FireSat modeling accommodates specifying a chain of space-ground assets needed for coverage determination 2  S ENSOR P LANNING S ERVICE  Sensor system architecture and design is transitioning from project-unique specifications to open-source specifications This supports the sharing and integration of sensor tasking and observations.  This also enables the development of COTS capabilities The transition to open-source specifications is enabled by the OGC  SWE initiative that provides a collection of standards for interacting with a network of Web-connected sensors and sensor systems.  The sensors can be: 1\xed or mobile, 2\3 environmental, scientific, or surveillance The OGC standards cover: 1\scovery of sensors and sensor capabilities, 2\ planning and tasking of sensors, and 3\oring, discovery, and retr ieval of sensor observations Figure 2 is an overview of the OGC Sensor Web Services Sensor Planning Services SPSs capabilities for Users, including: 1\ discover sensors and receive sensor descriptions, 2 formulate and determine the feasibility of a collection task, and 3\ submit a collection task and locate the results.  Each SPS operation has request and response components. The User sends a request message to the service and the service returns a response message Sensor Observation Services \(SOSs\rovide the capability for Users to discover and receive sensor descriptions and to request, filter, and retrieve sensor observations.  The filtering can be on time, sensor, or phenomenon.  The sensor observations can be retrieved from an observation repository or streamed realtime from a sensor.  There is also the capability for Sensor Management Systems to register and to publish sensor observations to the SOSs Sensor Alert Services \(SASs\rovide the capability for Users to discover sensor alerts and to register for and receive sensor alert messages. An alert is a notification that a certain observation event occurre d at a feature of interest There is also the capability for Sensor Management Systems to register and to publish observation event messages to the SASs Users discover SPSs, SOSs, and SASs via a series of registries Figure 3 shows the flow of SPS messages as specified in OGC 07-014r3, Sensor Planning Service Implementation Specification [1 The GetCapabilities operation provides a list of sensor IDs and a description of each se nsor, including the phenomena that can be measured, the region the sensor operates in or can be tasked to observe, and the location of a detailed description of the sensor The DescribeTasking operation provides the input parameters list needed by the GetFeasibility and the Submit operations The GetFeasibility operation provides an evaluation of the feasibility of accomplishing the co llection task: feasible, not feasible, and not feasible but alternatives available.  The evaluation can be as simple as checking the validity of the inputs or as complicated as modeling the collection activity The Submit operation provides the collection tasking request to the Data Provider \(DP\ The DescribeResultAccess operation provides the User with information as to how and where to retrieve the collection data There are also operations for statusing, updating, and canceling a tasking request 
 


   4 The SPS documents include a description of SPS operations, parameter defin itions and encodings, XML schema, and example XML documents.  The XML schema provides the structure of the data passed between the User and the SPS.  The XML documents are the instantiation of the schema For example, the User populates a GetFeasibility-Request XML document according the GetFeasibility schema and sends the document to the SPS.  The SPS receives and parses the XML document, determines collection feasibility populates a GetFeasibility-Response XML document, and sends the document to the User 3  COTS  SPS  U SE C ASE  This section is the use-case for a COTS SPS Operation Section 5, an overview of the COTS SPS prototype provides the approach to determining the feasibility of a collection task AGI Components is a family of low-level class libraries that provide access to specific analy tical and 3D visualization capabilities.  Dynamic Geometry Library provides modeling of time and position for accura te vehicle propagation and sensor modeling. Additionally, the library provides algorithms to compute position, orientation, and intervisibility intervals between land sea, air, and space assets The Spatial Analysis Library enables component users to compute asset coverage of gridded regions and timedynamic platforms The COTS GetFeasibility operation accommodates geometrical and temporal collection tasking requirements The GetFeasibility operation does not implement a detailed ground coverage simulation, such as modeling an imaging payload that is configured on an image-by-image basis for a range of quality collections, nor does it attempt to model multiple overlapping ground coverage images.  This level of GetFeasibility simulation is best provided by the individual DPs User Registries SPS SOS SAS Sensor Observation Service Sensor Observation Repository Sensor Alert Service SPS Capabilities Sensor Descriptions Tasking Description Tasking Feasibility Sensor Tasking Sensor Observation Availability Sensor Planning Service Sensor Management System Sensor Tasks Sensors Sensor Commands Sensor Observations Figure 2. Overview of Sensor Web Services Sensor Web Enablement initiative discovery of sensors and capabilities - planning and tasking of sensors - storing, discovery and retrieval of sensor observations 
 


   5 Data Provider Sensor Planning Service  User  Update: Response Update: Request Cancel: Response Cancel: Request GetStatus: Response GetStatus: Request DescribeResultAccess: Response DescribeResultAccess: Request DescribeTasking: Request Sensor ID DescribeTasking: Response Submit Request Input Parameters GetFeasibility GetCapabilities: Request GetCapabilities: Response Organization providing service Operations provided Sensor IDs available for tasking Descriptions of sensors GetFeasibility: Response GetFeasibility: Request Sensor ID   - Input Parameters Submit: Response Submit: Request Sensor ID   - Input Parameters  Data Exchange by way of XML Documents In accord with Sensor Planning Service Application Specification OGC 07-014r3 Which contains Description of Operations Parameter Definitions Implementations and Encodings UML Class Diagrams XML Notations XML Schema Normative Ref Example XML Informative Ref Figure 3. Flow of SPS Messages XML document interchanges - User generates requests Sensor Planning Service generates responses  
 


   6 The benefit of a COTS GetFeasibility operation is that the first level of interaction with a DP can be common to all DPs.  The User populates one set of common XML documents that is applicable to each participating DP in order to produce an initial list of potential sensors Otherwise, the User would populate sets of XML documents, with each set unique to each DP.  Once a short list of sensors has been down-selected from the initial list the User populates a set of XML documents unique for each DP for a final selection of sensors This COTS GetFeasibility operation can support DPs that have implemented SPSs and those that have not, as illustrated in Figure 4 A User interacts with the CO TS SPS to discover a list of candidate DPs that have the potential of satisfying a particular collection task: DP#2, DP#4, DP#5, DP#7 DP#10, and DP#12.  Based on the Determine Feasibility Results provided by the COTS SPS,  DP#2 is not selected due to insufficient ground resolution and  DP#4 is not selected due other DPs having nearer-term access DP#5 and DP#7 have implemented SPSs.  The User interacts with DP#5 to formulate a collection task and to determine feasibility but does not select DP#5 since the DP is not able to incorporate the collection task into a near-term schedule.   The User interacts with DP#7 and submits a collection task after finding satisfactory collection feasibility and scheduling opportunity DP#10 and DP#12 have not implemented SPSs.  The User submits orders to both DPs.  The User specifies task acquisition time to DP#12 in order to force desired acquisition conditions reported by the COTS SPS 4  S TANDARD O BJECT C ATALOG D ATA AND O BJECTS  The first step in designing a COTS SPS is a Proof of Concept-Sensor Planning Serv ice \(PoC-SPS\includes the design and implementation of a Standard Object Catalog SOC\and the design and prototyping of the work flow of the functionality needed for the COTS implementation of an SPS The SOC is a community driven library of spacecraft with accurate and thorough descripti ons of mission capabilities Each SOC entry consists of a searchable description and STK objects.  The SOC entry also provides the reference sources for the spacecraft descriptions The objects are components of AGI\222s mission modeling capabilities.  Examples of object s are scenarios, spacecraft and imaging payloads.  The scenario, the highest level object, contains other objects and is the outline for a series of actions that can be visualized Figure 5 illustrates 
200  Generating XML documents that contain spacecraft descriptions and STK object parameters 200  Building STK objects and populating the SOC 200  Making the objects availabl e to the PoC-SPS and to STK 200  Making the objects and data in the XML documents available to external users There are three sources of XML documents 200  Automatically generated from a spacecraft staging data base populated by a SOC data team engineer 200  Manually populated by an data team engineer 200  Manually populated by an external user and approved by a data team engineer The spacecraft schema is the driving specification.  It defines the structure of the XML document template and the staging data base.  The template also defines the population of the staging data into the XML document The main spacecraft schema elements for optical and radar imaging spacecraft are 200  Spacecraft Classification 200  Launch Information 200  Mission Life 200  Spacecraft Orbit 200  Spacecraft Platform 200  Optical Payload Operations 200  Radar Payload Operations 200  References The spacecraft schema also has elements for navigation and communication satellites The Spacecraft Classification element includes NORAD catalog number, name, alternate names, and country of origin. The Optical Payload Operations element includes agility, spectral coverage, scene size, and ground resolution. The Radar Payload Operation element includes radar operating band, scan modes, scene sizes, and ground resolutions.  Examples of radar scan modes are spotlight and scan SAR The STK object parameters include field of views and field of regards for optical and radar imaging payloads The field of view is derived from the imaging payload footprint and the spacecraft nomin al altitude.  The field of regard is based on the agility of the spacecraft and imaging payload 
 


   7  Figure 4. Application of COTS GetFeasibility Operation COTS GetFeasibility operation can support data providers that have implemented SPSs and those that have not User DP#4 Not selected - Other DPs have nearer-term access DP#2 Not selected - Insufficient ground resolution DP#5 SPS Enabled Not selected - Cannot schedule until out-days Formulate Collection Task Determine Feasibility DP#7 SPS Enabled Selected Discover Sensors Formulate Collection Task Submit Task DP#10 No SPS Selected Submit Order DP#12 No SPS Selected - Within acquisition times that force desired acquisition Scheduling: Final selection and tasking / order is through services of individual DPs Submit Order COTS SPS Planning: One-stop-shopping for creating list of candidate spacecraft / sensors Discover Sensors Formulate Collection Task Determine Feasibility Standard Object Catalog  
 


   8 Satellite Took Kit Plug-In Standard Object Catalog STK Objects Object Build PoC SPS SOC Web Site XML Docs Browser Search Results Comments Internet User Generate XML Document Spacecraft Staging Database Spacecraft Database Record to XML Document Translator Manually Populate Staging Database Data Team Populate XML Document Submit for Approval Review Feedback Reconcile User Data Team Manually Populate XML Document Spacecraft Schema Spacecraft XML Template Data Team Figure 5. Population of and Acce ss to Standard Object Catalog The SOC is a community driven library of spacecraft with accurate and thorough descriptions of mission capabilities 
 


   9 The imaging payload field of view and field of regard are used by the mission modeling capabilities to determine feature of interest access and coverage metrics 5  COTS  SPS  P ROTOTYPING  Figure 6 is an overview of the prototype work flow functionality needed for a COTS implementation of the GetCapabilities, DescribeTasking, and GetFeasibility operations of an SPS Data exchanges between a User and an SPS are specified by a schema.  The prototype em ploys Spacecraft Capabilities Tasking Definition, and Acquisition Feasibility schema They are not intended to be one-off versions of the GetCapabilities, DescribeTasking, and GetFeasibility schema.  They are sparse schemas that support the design of the data exchanges needed for employing AGI mission modeling capabilities The sparse schema is used for the first prototyping steps The schema will be brought in to compliance with the SPS Implementation Specification in the final steps of prototyping SpacecraftCapabilities The Spacecraft Capabilities Reque st schema, illustrated in Figure 6, consists of Country and Payload Type elements These are the elements define d in the spacecraft schema\222s Spacecraft Classification and Pa yload Operations elements If the User does not specify a country, the search will include all countries.  The Payload Type can be Optical Imager or Radar Imager.  If a Payload Type is not specified the search will include both imagers The User populates the Spacecraft Capabilities Request XML document and sends it to the PoC-SPS where it is received and parsed.  The PoC-SPS searches and retrieves Spacecraft Classification and Pa yload Operation data from the SOC, populates the Sp acecraft Capabilities Response XML document, and sends it to the User AcquisitionFeasibility The User receives and pars es the Spacecraft Capabilities Response XML document and selects the applicable spacecraft and imaging payloads.  The User populates the Acquisition Feasibility Request XML document and sends it to the PoC-SPS where it is received and parsed The Acquisition Feasibility Request schema, illustrated in Figure 6, contains Spacecraft Pa yload Pairing, Feature of Interest, and Acquisition Constraints The request also includes the radar scan mode from Radar Payload Operation element if th e imager is a Radar Imager A Feature of Interest is defined by a ground point A full set of acquisition constraints includes geometric temporal, environmental, and quality. Examples of acquisition constraints for an Op tical Imager are: geometric slant range elevation angle range, temporal - time of day interval, environmental - solar elevation angle range, and quality - ground sample resolution range The PoC-SPS does not incorporate ground sample resolution since it requires knowledge of the detector configuration.  For example, an optical detector would require, at a minimum, detector focal length and pixel width.  However, a User can select an imaging payload based on its ground sample resolution provided in the Spacecraft Capabilities Response XML document The PoC-SPS receives and processes the Acquisition Feasibility Request.  The spacecraft payload pairing is used to retrieve the payload field of regard from the SOC and the spacecraft orbital elements from CelesTrak, the authoritative source of NORAD or bital elements.  Then the AGI Components are activated to determine the Acquisition Feasibility Response The payload field of regard is used instead of the field of view because it corresponds to the in-track and cross-track range that the payload could be pointed The Acquisition Feasibility Response sequence contains a number of acquisition interval start and stop times and corresponding acquis ition geometry The PoC-SPS populates the AcquisitionFeasibilityResponse XML document and provides it to the User The User can request Acquisition Feasibility Responses from a number of potential DPs and select the DP that best satisfies the User needs 6  F IRE S AT S YS ML   AGI  C OMPONENTS I NTERFACE P ROTOTYPING  The interaction between the SPS operations and AGI Components is the basis of the interaction between a FireSat SysML model and AGI Components SysML is a domain-specific modeling language for systems engineering.  SysML is an extension of a subset of Unified Modeling Language \(UML\L is used to specify visualize, construct, and document the artifacts of an objectoriented software-intensi ve system.  SysML can accommodate the integration of an engineering model\222s inputs and outputs within the SysML component 
 


   10 Data Exchange Specified by Schema  OGC specifies a XML data exchange But data exchanges could be APIs  Spacecraft Capabilities Request  Country Imaging Payload Type - Optical, Radar Spacecraft Capabilities Response  Spacecraft Names and Descriptions Payload Names and Capabilities Acquisition Feasibility Request  Feature of Interest and Acquisition Constraints Spacecraft Payload Pairing Acquisition Feasibility Response  Access Intervals  PoC SPS   Orbits  Standard Object Catalog  AGI Components  Catalog Interface  Components Interface  User  Discover Sensors Formulate Collection Task Determine Feasibility  Data Exchange  Spacecraft Capabilities Request Response Acquisition Feasibility Request Response Figure 6. Work Flow Functionality Proof of Concept Prototype for a COTS SPS Sparse schemas are initially used to establish concepts for data exchange and interaction 
 


   11 The SysML model is of a hypothetical FireSat system - a space-based system for det ecting, identifying, and monitoring forest fires.   It is derived from the description in Space Mission Analysis and Design Third Edition, by Wiley J. Larson and James R. Wertz \(editors modeling is an International Council of Systems Engineering \(INCOSE\odel Based System Engineering MBSE\ilot project One of the goals of the FireSat MBSE pilot project is to develop an interface between the FireSat SysML model and STK/AGI Components The FireSat system consists of users, mission satellites communications satellites, and ground stations.  The SysML model is used to carryout trade studies of system design performance, and cost   The FireSat SysML model is created with MagicDraw 256  from No Magic and uses ParaMagic\231 from InterCAX to carry out trade studies.  Para Magic integrates Microsoft Excel, MATLAB 256 Simulink 256 and Mathematica into MagicDraw SysML models.  InterCAX is prototyping the SysML interface with AGI Components Figure 7 is an overview of how a FireSat SysML model could interact with AGI Components to carry out trade studies on FireSat system elements There are two types of interactions.  The first is a setup of the scenario elements cache c ontaining candidate spacecraft imaging payloads, relays, and ground stations.  These candidate elements are populated from the FireSat system elements pool.  This pool contains all of the FireSat elements and variations under consideration. The second interaction is a series of elements selections, accessibility queries, and coverage queries The accessibility and coverage data returned by AGI Components are used to assess FireSat measures of effectiveness.  Examples ar e area covered, revisit time memory margin, and power margin The accessibility and coverage data are also used to assess FireSat resource usage strategies, e.g 
200  Communication link availability for command uplink telemetry downlink, and image downlink 200  Memory used for image storage versus memory freed up by downlink during and after imaging 200  Power used for image collection and downlink versus power replenished during sunbathing and normal operations The current prototyping of the interaction between the FireSat SysML model and AGI Components is confined to the data exchange interface of Figure 8 200  Scenario Elements Initialization 200  Accessibility Chain Request and Response 200  Feature Coverage Request and Response The spacecraft orbit is modeled w ith the standard set of six orbital elements.  The imaging payload is modeled with rectangular or conic field of view half angles and a direction of pointing in the spacecraft re ference frame.  The field of view is modeled, instead of the field of regard, since it represents the extent of the coverage capability at any instance of time. The field of regard represents the potential coverage Accessibility chains are used to determine time intervals of accessibility through a string of serially linked scenario elements As an example, take a chain consisting of a feature of interest, a mission spacecraft, a relay spacecraft, and a ground station.  The chain capability determines the intervals of time that the missi on spacecraft is in view of the feature of interest and the rela y and, at the same time, the relay is in view of the ground station.  In view means that the lines of sights between th e elements satisfy viewing constraints A feature of interest, an imaging payload on a mission spacecraft, a relay spacecraft, and a ground station chain is more restrictive since line of si ght to the feature of interest must be within the imaging payload field of view. The satellite can image the feature of interest and downlink the image through the relay satellite during these intervals of time The feature of interest can be a point or an area.  An area is defined by a set of latitude, longitude, and altitude vertices connected by straight lines.  The AGI Components coverage capability fills in the area with grid points with a user defined spacing The user also selects among the following figure of merits for area coverage 200  Area covered, i.e. square kilometers 200  Percent of area covered 200  Area covered in each time interval 200  Minimum, maximum, and average response times 200  Minimum, maximum, and average revisit times 
 


   12 The response time is a measure of the time between a request for coverage of an area grid point and the time at which coverage is achieved The revisit time is a measure of the intervals during which coverage of a grid point is not provided, also known as coverage gaps 7  C URRENT S TATUS AND F UTURE P LANS  The SOC is currently populated with Earth observation navigation, communications and technology development spacecraft as well as ground facilities that support spacecraft launch and operations The SOC contains 59 Earth observation satellites from 20 countries.  There are 44 optical imaging satellites with a total of 116 operating modes, and 15 radar imaging satellites with a total of 66 operating modes.  An optical operating mode is a combination of sensor, spectrum projected field of view, and ground resolution.  Examples of radar operation modes are spotlight, stripmap, and scanSAR The schema has been defined for the User - PoC-SPS data exchange of Figure 6 and the Discover Sensors capability has been prototyped as A pplication Programming Interface API\e next step is to prototype all the capabilities as both as API and XML document interfaces Then, the XML document inte rface will be brought into compliance with the SPS Impl ementation Specification The prototyping of FireSat SysML and AGI Components interaction is taking place in geographically separated facilities: AGI in Exton, Pennsylvania and InterCAX in Atlanta, Georgia.  XML documents were exchanged by email during the initial prototyping.  Current prototyping incorporates program-to-program automatic exchange of XML documents, with all the prototyping at InterCAX Future prototyping will include an API passing of data The InterCAX approach to the design and implementation of FireSat SysML model and AGI Components interaction is addressed in reference 2 Figure 7. Trade Study Interaction of a FireSat SysML Model and AGI Components The FireSat SysML model intera cts with AGI Components to carryout trade studies of system design, performance, and cost Measures of Effectiveness Power Margin Revisit Time Area Covered Memory Margin Candidate FireSat SysML Model Prototype  Elements Selection Accessibility Coverage Queries Elements Setup Data Analysis Memory Usage Comm Usage Coverage Roll-Up Power Usage FireSat System Elements Pool Candidate Interface to AGI Components  Scenario Elements Cache AGI Components Cache Interface Components Interface 
 


   13  Data Exchange Specified by Schema  Data exchanges could be XML documents or APIs   Scenario Elements Initialization  Spacecrafts: Names & Orbits      - Imaging Payloads: Names & Patterns Feature of Interests: Names, Types, Boundaries & Viewing Constraints Geostationary Relay Satellites: Names and Longitudes Ground Stations: Names & Locations Scenario Start & Stop Times Feature Coverage Request  Feature of Interest Name Spacecraft & Payload Names Figure of Merit Request Feature Coverage Response  Coverage by Area and by Percent Min, Max & Average Response Time Min, Max & Average Revisit Time Coverage by Time Interval Accessibility Chain Request  Scenario Elements Accessibility Chain Response  Accessibility Interval Start & Stop Times  SysML Model Interface Prototype  Setup System Elements Determine Accessibility Determine Feature Coverage  Interface Prototype to AGI Components   Scenario Elements Cache  AGI Components  Cache Interface  Components Interface  Data Exchange  Scenario Elements Accessibility Request / Response Feature Coverage Request / Response Figure 8. Prototype Data Exchange Between FireSat SysML Model and AGI Components The data exchange will be enhanced to meet user needs 
 


   14 The schema has been defined for the FireSat SysML and AGI Components interaction of Figure 8.  The Setup System Elements and Determine Feature Coverage capabilities have been prototyped.  The next step is to prototype all the capabilities as both API and XML document interfaces 8  C ONCLUSIONS  An SPS providing a COTS GetFeasibility operation will make it easier for Users to discover sensors that fulfill their needs.  A COTS common inte rface will provide the User with one well-known set of operations for the initial discovery of candidate sensors A final selection of sensors can be carried out using the SPS operations of the individual DPs Additionally, an SPS server c ontaining a catalog of sensors can be created to provide the Users with one-stop-shopping for the initial discovery of candidate sensors The operations being developed now are for optical and radar sensors, but are extensible to Earth observation scientific sensors The design and implementation of the Magic Draw and ParaMagic FireSat SysML model interaction with AGI Components will be refined a nd then extended to other SysML tools The FireSat SysML model interaction with AGI Components proof of concept is also intended to provide the blueprint for the design and implementation of other types of SysML modeling of space based missions R EFERENCES   Docum e nt 07-014r3 at  http://www.opengeospatial.org   M a nas B a jaj, \223SLIM A C o l l a borat i v e, M odel B a sed Systems Engineering Work space for Next-Generation Complex System\224, 2011 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings, March 5-12, 2011 B IOGRAPHY  Dave Kaslow is Director, Product Data Management at Analytical Graphics, Inc.  He has thirty-seven years of experience in both the technical and management aspects of developing ground mi ssion capabilities He is also the editor of Spacecraft Digest www.stk.com/scdigest which tracks current and future spacecraft and spacecraft missions He is co-author of \223Defining and Developing the Mission Operations System\224, \223Activity Planning\224, \223FireSat\224 and 223Spacecraft Failures and Anomalies\224 in Cost-Effective Space Mission Operations He is also the author and co-author of papers for the International Council on Systems Engineering \(INCOSE Annual International Symposiums and for the IEEE Aerospace Conference A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The author gratefully acknowledges the prototyping support of colleague Sam Gilbert  
 


Eds Amsterdam: North Holland, 1997 19]  Kiger, J.I. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in the Design of Menu-Driven Interfaces," International Journal of Man-Machine Studies \(20 20]   Miller, D.P. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in Hierarchical Computer Menus," Human Factors Society 1981, pp. 296-300 21]  Newman, W. M. and Lamming, M. G., Interactive system design, Cambridge, MA, Addison-Wesley, 1995 22]  Nielsen, J. "Usability Engineering at a Discount International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction Elsevier Science, Boston, 1989, pp. 394-401 23]  Nielsen, J. Usability Engineering, Acad. Press, 1993  24]  Nielsen, J., ?Heuristic evaluation,? in J. Nielsen and R. Mack \(eds Wiley &amp; Sons, 1994  25]  Nielsen, J., ?Usability metrics:  Tracking interface improvements,? IEEE Software, Nov 1996, pp. 12-13 26]  Nielsen J www.useit.com/papers/heuristic/heuristic_list.html, 2002 27]  Nielsen, J. and Mack, R., Usability inspection methods, John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc., 1994 28]  Niemela, M., and Saariluoma, P. "Layout Attributes and Recall," Behaviour &amp; Information Technology \(22:5 2003, pp 353-363 29]  Norman, K.L. The Psychology of Menu Selection Ablex Publishing Corporation, Norwood, NJ, 1991 30]  Norman, K.L., and Chin, J. "The Effect of Tree Structures on Search in a Hierarchical Menu Selection System," Behavior &amp; Information Technology \(7 51-65 31]  Perlman, G. http://edgarmatias.com/faq/G/G-1.html 2000 32]  Reiterer, H.,  Oppermann, R. Evaluation of User Interfaces: EVADIS II -- A Comprehensive Evaluation Approach. In Behaviour and Information Technology, 12 3 33]  Schenkman, B.N., and Jonsson, F.U. "Aesthetics and Preferences of Web Pages," Behavior &amp; Information Technology \(19:5 34]  Shackel, B., ?Usability ? context, framework definition, design and evaluation,? in Human Factors for Informatics Usability, edited by Shackel, B. and Richardson, S. J., Cambridge:  Cambridge University Press 1991, pp. 21-38 35]  Shneiderman, B., "Designing trust into online experiences,? Communications of the ACM, December 2000, pp. 57- 59  36]  Shneiderman, Ben, Designing the User Interface Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction Reading, Mass., Addison-Wesley, 1986, 1987c 37]  Somberg, B.L. "A Comparison of Rule-Based and Positionally Constant Arrangements of Computer Menu Items," CHI and GI 1987, ACM, New York, New York 1987, pp. 255-260 38]  Vredenburg, K., et. al "A Survey of User-Centered Design Practice," SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, ACM, Minneapolis, Minnesota 2002, pp. 471-478 39]  Weiss, E., and Nielsen, J. "Heuristic evaluation, a system checklist, usability analysis &amp; design," Xerox Corporation 40]  Wharton, C., et. al,  ?The cognitive walkthrough method:  A practitioner?s guide,? in Nielsen, J., Mack, R Usability Inspection Methods, John Wiley &amp; Sons, 1994 41]  Whitefield, A., Wilson, F., and Dowell, J. "A Framewokr for Human Factors Evaluation," Behavior &amp Information Technology \(10:1 


42] Yu, B.-M., and Roh, S.-Z. "The Effects of Menu Design on Information-Seeking Performance and User's Attitude on the World Wide Web," Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology \(53:11 2002, pp 923-933 43]Zaphiris, P., and Mtei, L. "Depth vs. Breadth in the Arrangement of Web Links," 1997, p. Available online http://otal.umd.edu/SHORE/bs04 44]  Zaphiris, P., Shneiderman, B., and Norman, K.L Expandable Indexes vs. Sequential Menus for Searching Heirarchies on the World Wide Web," Behavior &amp Information Technology \(21:3 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


and Improving IT Governance through the Balanced Scorecard", Information Systems Control Journal, 2 70] Van Grembergen, W., De Haes, S., and Guldentops E., "Structures, Processes and Relational Mechanisms for IT Governance" in: Van Grembergen, W. \(Ed for Information Technology Governance,  Idea Group Publishing, 2004, 1-37 71] Wagner, H.-T., A resource-based perspective on IT business alignment and firm performance - Theoretical foundation and empirical evidence, ibidem, Stuttgart, Germany, 2007 72] Wagner, H.-T. and Weitzel, T., "IT Business Alignment as Governance Tool for Firm-Internal Relationship Quality: A Longitudinal Case Study",  41th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-41 Island, Hawaii, 2008 73] Webb, P., Pollard, C., and Ridley, G., "Attempting to Define IT Governance: Wisdom or Folly?",  39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Kauai, Hawaii, 2006 74] Zahra, S.A. and George, G., "The Net-Enabled Business Innovation Cycle and the Evolution of Dynamic Capabilities", Information Systems Research, 13\(2 147-150 75] Zmud, R.W., "Building relationships throughout the corporate entity" in: Elam, J., Ginzberg, M., Keen, P., and Zmud, R.W. \(Eds mission, the framework, the transition,  1988, Washington 1988, 55-82   Appendix  Table 5. Used indicators All items have been evaluated by using a 5-point Likert scale ranging from ?strongly agree? to  strongly disagree ID Item References Executive support \(ES ES1 The IT unit is sufficiently represented in our bank  s executive board. [18 ES2 Top management actively supports interplay between business and IT Strategic Alignment \(SA SA1 I am familiar with the IT strategy. [55 SA2 The IT strategy is accurately aligned with the business strategy. [22, 54, 55, 63 SA3 The IT strategy is documented. [17, 54 Governance Mechanisms \(GM GM1 There are explicit incentives rewarding good interaction with the IT unit. [51 GM2 The back office is proactively involved into IT planning. [17, 26, 55 GM3 There is a specific organizational unit or function to improve the communication be-tween  the IT and the back office 17, 26 Operational Alignment \(OA OA1 There is mutual trust and respect between IT unit and the back office. [13, 46, 64 OA2 IT and the back office regularly consult each other. [13, 17, 19 OA3 There are meetings on a regular basis between IT and back office for identifying business process improvements 17, 26, 55  OA4 There is extensive communication between IT unit and back office. [15, 17, 26 OA5 IT employees are able to interpret business related problems and develop solutions. [13, 60  64 Process Performance \(PP PP1 The configuration of our credit process allows us to sustain a competitive advantage in the  relevant market 36 PP2 The configuration of our credit process allows us to differentiate us from the competi-tors  in the relevant market 36, 42 PP3 Compared to our competitors, the operational efficiency of our loans process is higher. [23  27 PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  


PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  5 much worse 71 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





