 Creation of Web based Tutor to Enhance Student Learning of Normalization Harjeet Kaur Dept. of Computer Science and Engg Lovely Profesional University Phagwara, India harjeet.kaur@lpu.co.in   Vinay Chopra Dept. of Computer Science and Engg DAVIET Jalandhar, India vinaychopra222@yahoo.co.in  Abstract Relational database is an important subject area in computer science curriculum. Data normalization is one of the topics which is invariably found in database courses offered in different universities. To-date teaching-learning experience indicates that students find it difficult to understand the concepts of normal forms to obtain smaller well-structured relations. Very few commercial design tools are available to assist students in learning Normalization. Consequence is a big challenge for educators, in both, teaching as well as motivating students in learning Data base Design.  This paper presents the design of an web based tutor to assist learning normalization by resolving different issues in teaching database design. To reveal the effectiveness and positive impact of the tutor on studentês perception, the paper is supported by the result of a survey made for assessing the performance of students on the tutor keywords- Database Normalization, Teaching Methods Learning Support, Web based Tutor I   I NTRODUCTION  Databases are a fundamental area of study in information and computer sciences courses. One of the main topics included in a prescription for a database course is data normalization. Normalization plays a vital role in both the theory and the practice of database design. The designers of database would normally be graduates majoring in computer science or information systems. Lack of understanding of basic concepts related to normalization and data design have a negative impact on student understanding of more complex topics which in turn hinders student achievement Until recently, traditional classroom methods of teaching supported by the textbook techniques have been used to enable students to do data normalization. However, now with the advances in software development and the power of the Internet to make available online learning resources students have the opportunity to choose from alternative teaching learning tools and techniques. It will be interesting and informative to find out about the development of web based tutor for teaching students data normalization and compare its effectiveness in facilitating learning with those of traditional classroom textbook teaching methods This paper reports on a project exploring the potential of online learning tutor for supporting the teaching of basic concepts in designing of database systems and for enhancing the learning experience. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 covers issues in teaching databases and methods of resolution. Section 3 presents the overview of design and implementation of the web based tutor for learning normalization. The original abstract algorithms are omitted from this paper due to extensive coverage in the literature. Section 4 illustrates research design and data collection procedure. The effectiveness of the web-based tutor is evaluated and interpreted in this section, and section 5 concludes the paper with proposed future enhancements II  I SSUES IN T EACHING D ATABASE N ORMALIZATION AND THEIR R ESOLUTION  When teaching databases, it has been found that students have problems in understanding some important concepts in normalization. For instance while applying normal forms to their database design students sometimes are unable to identify candidate keys, they may not be able to understand the theory of dependency correctly, and they may miss certain decomposition and get poorly designed relations containing redundancies. With suitable practice and assimilation we imagine these skills will be acquired, but interestingly, one of the skills companies consider to be most lacking in new IT graduate recruits is database design Relational-database normalization is a theoretical approach for structuring a database schema and it is very well developed. Unfortunately, theory is not yet understood well by practitioners. Major contributing factors behind this are 1  Traditional class room teaching environment 2  Lack of clarity and inaccuracies that persist in the presentation of some basic database concepts in textbooks 3  And, unavailability of good online visual tools which could aid the students during the learning process of relational database normalization  The Traditional Teaching Model based on the traditional lecture format, in and of itself, is a big issue. The professor stands in front of the students and presents information. Lectures are used to discuss the various theories. Students rely on the professor to present the important concepts. Lab time usually occurs on a different day than the lecture. Therefore, there is a delay between learning new concepts and applying them. Lab assignments may not be related to lecture examples. And, it's not uncommon for students to become bored or frustrated. In a _____________________________________ 978-1-4244-5265-1/10/$26 00 ©2010 IEEE 
 


classroom of twenty to thirty students, there are going to be several students with differing learning styles and academic strengths and weaknesses. Some students learn better by visual means, others will learn better with auditory means and still others are going to learn better with a hands-on approach. It is virtually impossible for a single teacher to accommodate all methods of teaching and learning. And woe to the teacher who has a couple of students who present themselves as "problem students," a student who is difficult to manage or who disrupts the classroom is also going to take away time that the teacher could be using to help with one-on-one time with his or her students A number of excellent textbooks on dependency theory already exist. Nevertheless, although textbooks can offer very good coverage of the material on dependency theory they offer only limited forms of interactivity and limited scope for students to test their own understanding of database design principles. Many textbooks provide no practical exercises and, even when they do, these exercises are often limited in size and sophistication. Moreover textbooks that do provide exercises do not necessarily provide çsolutionsé, so students cannot determine whether they were able to çsolveé the problems. The lack of clarity in defining the terms tables, relations, and normal form in textbooks is another potential source of confusion. Several database design concepts and techniques are commonly presented ambiguously in textbooks and are problematic for students Commercial DB design tools do not serve our purpose of teaching normalization and require high level programming skills. According to Mitrovic \(2002  educational systems offer several advantages like minimizing the problems of hardware and software compatibility and distributing software to individual users As such the students can access web-enabled tutors from anywhere at any time. Apparently, the best advantage of this method seems to be its flexibility. It would also imply that students would take responsibility for their learning. Some students may find it less intimidating to work with a machine than with people. The machine will not get tired of repeating something and the possibility of negative reactions that may emanate from a human teacher does not exist. When students use this method, the teacher may be more available to attend to their problems on individual basis. In order for online learning to be successful, teachers as well as learners must take on new roles in the teaching-learning relationship, and faculty must be willing to release control of learning to the students. As a result, the quality, quantity, and patterns of communication students practice during learning are improved III  D ESIGN OF W EB BASED N ORMALIZATION T UTOR  A  Architecture of Web Based Normalization Tutor Figure I illustrate the architecture of Web Based Normalization Tutor. Due to the fact that web-enabled educational systems are becoming the dominant type of systems available to students, we designed our tutor as a web-based application. In addition to this, web-based systems offer several advantages in comparison to standalone systems. They minimize the problems of distributing software to users and hardware and software compatibility. It is a centralized Tutor, performing all tutoring function on server side, where database of users comments and assignment are present. The client-side solution consists of an application which runs entirely on the user's computer within a browser. All implementations have been done using .net frameworks, ASP.net, C# with MS SQL Server as backend Student needs to login to the tutor first, in order to create his/her own space. Otherwise he will be able to practice on ready-made assignments only. Different options provided to a student include, creation of new assignments, loading of existing assignment, checking solutions to evaluate his or her own work and finally getting the correct solution of the problem given. Beside exercise solving, student can post and view comments to present his or her perception on the usability of the tutor B  User Interfaces and a  Learning Session In this section we briefly introduce how a student session starts in given web-based Tutor Figure II shows the overview of the most important part of the user interface The lack of user-friendly UI can often lead to unpopularity of the software among students, thatês why we put a lot of our attention in finding a good layout for the UI. The requirements for the layout were to give the user as much information possible about an assignment without losing the general view. In order to achieve this goal we split the UI in different views using tabs. Students have to first choose an assignment from a list with assignments, submitted by other users \(students or lecturers\ay enter his or her own problem to work with. An assignment consists of a relational-database schema in universalrelation form \(URF relation and a set of FDs on the attributes. After an assignment has been loaded, we require the students to go through the following steps 1  Identification of Candidate Key 2  Determination of Minimal Cover of FDês 3  Decomposition  in 2, 3 and BCNF The sequence of the steps is fixed. However, a student may ask for new problem any time during problem solving  IV  E VALUATING S TUDENT  S P ERFORMANCE ON T UTOR  A  Design and Procedure of Evaluation Based on the literature review of the existing evaluation m  al interview and survey evaluation approach is used to measure both teachersê and studentsê perceptions about the effectiveness of the textbook technique and the web-based tutor in helping them teaching or learning database 
 


normalization. We sought comments from several colleagues involved in teaching database in the University. After their positive response and consent to conduct the survey on their students, tutor was used in a classroom environment. Total 75 third year students of 3 different programmes of odd term of 2009-10 academic year\(current term\ated in the survey Students were given two identical set of Functional Dependencies, one set contained hypothetical attributes and other was close to real life example. Students were asked to identify the candidate keys and to give valid decompositions up to BCNF. Each student was asked to complete a survey questionnaire after they applied the textbook technique and the web-based tutor to solve the given problems. Students were asked to provide their perceptions of their performance of both the techniques. The questionnaire, which was administered at the end of the problem solving session consisted of 5 questions, about 1  Using the textbook technique/tutor the extent of problems faced in finding a  Full functional dependencies b  Candidate keys c  Lossless decomposition 2.  Helpfulness of the textbook technique/tutor 3. Perceived improvement in scores of normalization after using the textbook technique/tutor  The questions were answered in percentage. An openended question was also included on the survey to enable the students to include their comments about the textbook normalization technique and the tutor B  Results and Analys Some very interesting facts can be extracted out from Table I. The students all reported that the software was useful in terms of helping to develop their understanding of dependency theory, and all agreed that the facility for testing their own solutions to normalization problems was motivating to use and important in developing understanding. They were unanimous in concluding that the tool was a major improvement, in terms of carrying out practical exercises, over the textbook Definitely the students prefer the use of tutor to learn the concepts instead of text book. Still some strange answers, of student contradicting his/her own point could also be seen Preference for the tutor over textbook normalization technique was also observed in responses to the open-ended question on the survey questionnaire. Most comments about the traditional technique were negatively toned. They suggest that students felt that the textbook technique took more time and effort to master \(especially after exposure to the tutor positive V  C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE W ORK  Until recently, traditional classroom methods have been used to teach students how to normalize data. A web-based normalization tutor has been developed to enhance teaching and learning of database normalization. The tutor is user friendly and can be accessed through the Internet. Students responses to the tutor were mostly favorable. The tutor can further be expanded to incorporate other types of dependencies also. A next step for this tutor would be to support other normal forms such as the fourth normal form 4NF\level of normalization after BCNF R EFERENCES  1  Ronnie A. Fanguy,Betty A. Kleen, çNormalization Shootout A Competitive Game That Impacts Student Learningé, Issues in Information Systems, Volume VI, No. 1, 2005, pp. 21-27 2  George C. Philip,é Teaching Database Modeling and Design Areas of Confusion and Helpful Hintsé  Journal of Information Technology Education Volume 6, 2007, pp. 482497 3  Mitrovic, A. çNORMIT: A Web-Enabled Tutor for Database Normalizationé, International Conference on Computers in Education \(ICCE'02 4  H. Mannila & K. J. Raiha, çPractical Algorithms for Finding Prime Attributes and Testing Normal Formsé. 8th ACM SIGACT-SIGMOD-SIGART Symposium on Principles of Database Systems 1989, pp. 128Ö133 5  Bernstein, P. A. çSynthesizing Third Normal Form Relations from Functional Dependencies ACM Transactions on Database Systems Vol. 1. No. 4, pp 277-298, 1976 6  Silberschatz, A., Korth, H. F., and Sudarshan, S., 2002 Database System Concept s, 4 th Edition, Boston MA: McGraw Hill 7  R. Elmasri and S. B. Navathe. Fundamentals of Database Systems \(5th Edition\ Longman Publishing Co., Inc., Boston, MA, USA, 2006 8  Yazici, A. and Karakaya, Z.: Normalizing Relational Database Schemas UsingMathematica, LNCS, SpringerVerlag, Vol.3992 \(2006 9  Kung, H. and Case, T.: Traditional and Alternative Database Normalization Techniques:Their Impacts on IS/IT Students Perceptions and Performance, International Journal of Information Technology Education, Vol.1, No.1 \(2004 10  Kung, H-J. and Tung, H-L.: A Web-based Tool to Enhance Teaching/Learning Database Normalization, Proc. of the 2006 Southern Association for Information Systems Conference 2006 11  Diederich, J. and Milton, J.: New Methods and Fast Algorithms for Database Normalization, ACM Trans. on Database Systems, Vol.13, No.3\(1988 12  Connolly, T.M., Stansfield, M.H., McLellan, E.: Using an Online Games-Based Learning Approach to Teach Database Design Concepts. Electronic Journal of e-Learning 4\(1 110 \(2005 13  Connolly, T.M., Begg, C.E.: A Constructivist-based Approach to Teaching Database Analysis and Design. Journal 2006 14  Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on Teaching, Learning and Assessment in Databases \(TLAD 2008 2008 15  Lei Zhang; Kaschek, R.; Kinshuk, çDeveloping a knowledge management support system for teaching database normalizationé IEEE ICALT 2005. Fifth IEEE International Conference on Volume , Issue , 5-8 July 2005 Page\(s 
 


16  A.P. Sexton \(Eds.\Ideas in Teaching, Learning and Assessment of Databases: A Communication of the 7thInternational Workshop on Teaching, Learning and Assessment of Databases \(TLAD 2009 LNCS 5588 pp. 213-224, 2009, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009 17  Y. Shi et al., çJMathNorm: A database normalization tool using Mathematicaé ICCS 2007, Part II, LNCS 4488, pp 186Ö193, 2007 @ SpringerÖ Verlang  Berlin Heidelberg 2007 18  Samuel Mann and Mike Lopez \(Eds\Teaching Data Normalization: Traditional Classroom Methods versus Online Visual Methods Ö a Literature Reviewé 2008, 21st Annual Conference of the National Advisory Committee on Computing Qualifications \(NACCQ 2008 Zealand 2008 19  J. Pr¸mper, çSoftware-Evaluation Based upon ISO 9241Part 10é,Human Computer Interaction, Vienna Conference VCHCI¥93, Finde SiËcle Vienna, Austria, 1993, pp255-265 20  M. E. Wiklund, çUsability in Practice: How Companies Develop User-friendly Productsé, Academic Press Professional, Inc., San Diego, CA. 1994 Table I: Result of Survey  Question Text Book Technique Web based Tutor I II III IV V I II III IV V Difficulty in finding full functional dependencies 18 12 4 37 4 19 19 12 21 4 Difficulty in finding candidate keys 12 20 29 14 0 16 21 25 13 0 Difficulty in finding decomposition 3 16 22 33 1 6 15 19 33 2 Helpfulness 10 35 23 7 0 9 33 25 8 0 Improvement in Perceived grades 22 35 17 5 0 18 21 29 7 0   Category, I: 0-25% II: 25-50% III 50-75% IV: 75-100% V: No answer \(Values indicate number of students who answered in specif ied category                                             Figure II: A Snapshot from Web Based Normalization Tutor    Internet Load Load Save Save Load Check Solution Save Load Save  Web Server   Web Browser Comment Assignment User Comment Assignment Users Assignments  and Comments  Figure I: Architecture of Web Based Normalization Tutor Tab to create new Tab to solve available assi g nmen t s Home page with Introduction Workspace to specify attributes and 
 


5 TABLE 3 T HE CONTRIBUTION OF PLANNED CUSTOMER INTERRUPTION MINUTES TO THE UTILITY  S SAIDI VALUE Year Customer interruption minutes Contribution to SAIDI min./yr.cust Potential reduction of SAIDI min./yr.cust 2004 40565968 47,61 42,9 2005 53799462 63,09 56,8 2006 47170548 55,22 49,7 2007 34717939 40,84 36,8            TABLE 4 summarizes the potential improvement of power supply reliability on company level based on statistics of 2004-2007. If the planned outages could be eliminated by 90% then the companyís SAIFI value would be reduced to 2.08 ñ 2.45 \(int/yr.cust ch would give 13 ñ 17 improvement. A total SAIDI would be reduced to 174 ñ 667 min/yr.cust.\improvement of the companyís SAIDI value would be realized. The overall system reliability \(ASAI\ 99.86 99.96% to 99.87 ñ 99.97   Potential reduction of SAIDI \(min./yr.cust 42,9 56,8 49,7 36,8 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 2004 2005 2006 2007 min./yr.cust Contribution of planned customer interruptions to SAIDI Potential reduction of SAIDI Fig. 6.  Potential reduction of the SAIDI The results of the analysis show that there is big potential in reducing scheduled customer outages and increasing reliability of power supply. By applying mobile power equipment combined with LW \(live working\ethods interruption-free maintenance and repair work can be realized and the companyís system reliability could be increased significantly TABLE 4 T HE POTENTIAL IMPROVEMENT OF THE UTILITY  S SYSTEM OVERALL RELIABILITY INDICES Year Company system overall reliability indices Potential decrease to Potential improvement  SAIFI \(int./yr.cust 2004 2,45 2,13 13 2005 2,88 2,45 15 2006 2,51 2,08 17 2007 2,94 2,44 17 SAIDI \(min/yr.cust 2004 217,3 174,4 20 2005 723,4 666,6 8 2006 226,8 177,1 22 2007 476 439,2 8 ASAI System availability Potential increase to 2004 99,9587 99,9668  2005 99,8624 99,8732  2006 99,9569 99,9663  2007 99,9094 99,9164  VI CONCLUSION Mobile power equipment is an important tool to reduce customer interruptions and o ffers possibility to enhance power service reliability. This paper presen ts the results of a project recently performed at the power company, Vattenfall, in Sweden. The project studied mobile power equipment related issues for application purpose. One of important concerns was how far we could increase power supply reliability and how much we could reduce scheduled power outages by using mobile equipment Based on the performance data and outage statistics of a period of four years at Vattenfall network company in Sweden, the project analyzed impact on power service reliability by application of mobile power equipment. The analysis shows that mobile power equipment combined with LW technique has potential to eliminate planned customer outages expected up to 90% and improves the reliability significantly. The companyís SAIFI value would be potentially improved by 13-17%. A potential 8-22 improvement of the companyís SAIDI value would be realized. The overall system reliability would then be increased from 99.86-99.96% to 99.87-99.97 VII.  A CKNOWLEDGMENT The financial support from Vattenfall R&D program Smart Grids is gratefully acknowledged The authors would like to thank Johan Sˆderbom and Arne Lundqvist for their support 


6 VIII.  REFERENCES  Hallstrˆm  Avbrottsv‰rder ing vid kalkylering inom Vattenfall Eldistribution AB,íí ND I75-2004, 2004-09-28  H. Elm v ik, îAnv‰ndning av reser velverk i samband med planerade avbrott pÂ Eldistributions anl‰ggninga r,íí Vattenfall Eldistribution AB ND-Ri-40-2005  A. Augustsson, îRiktlinje fˆr arbetsbeg‰ran och pl anerade kundavbrott inom Eldistributions lokaln‰t,íí Vattenfall Eldistribution AB, ND-Ri-282005  B. W a llbing-Lˆvgren, îMobiltran sform ator 40/10-20 kV,íí Vattenfall Norrn‰t AB, 2002-11-25  W  Lord, L. Ahnlund, and I Johansson, ìMobile Substations,íí in Proc 19th CIRED, May 2007 IX.  B IOGRAPHIES Ying He received her M.Sc. and PhD degree from Royal Institute of Technology \(KTH 1997 and 2002 respectively. Since 2002 she has been a senior research engineer at Vattenfall Research and Development AB in Stockholm. She is currently working on power system studies and analyses and has been involved in a number of projects concerning reliability analysis and asset management Anders Nilsson got his M.Sc. degree from Royal Institute of Technology \(KTH\in 2005 Since then he has worked with Power Distribution Systems and specialized in availability and quality of power delivery. Anders has worked for Vattenfall Nordic Distribution with operations and is today working as a consultant and manager at Energo in the electrical distribution systems business area. He is today involved in a number of projects regarding risk management, strategies, oper ations, energy regulation and technical development Fredrik Carlsson Mí2001\Stockholm Sweden, on January 17, 1974 He wrote his master thesis in late 1998 in the field of "models of electric actuators for railway vehicles", which was entitled the best master thesis in railway techniques by Swedtrain. He received his M.Sc. degree 1999 in Electrical Engineering from KTH, Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, Sweden. He got his Ph.D degree in January 2004 with the title "On impacts and ride-through of voltage sags exposing lineoperated AC-machines". He has then worked as a researcher at the department of El ectrical engineering, KTH, Stockholm Sweden. Since 2008, he is working as a senior R&D engineer at Vattenfall Research & Development, Sweden 


is important 1 describing 1 1 follows 1 1 consists of 1 identifies  relates to 1 1 has 1 complement covers 1 is served by 1 focusing on 1..6 represented 1 1 covers 1 1 1 relate to 0 described by 1 1 influenced by 1 1 relates to 0 Figure 2. MB-EISE conceptual model Figure 3. Basic engineering tasks performed based on each cell-related view operability between methodologies applied within each cell can be accomplished. These tasks should be further re?ned within the limits of each Zachman cell Since, even within the purpose of a speci?c methodology or viewpoint, discrete issues may be resolved using autonomous, heterogeneous tools, tool integration related to a speci?c task should be supported. Some of them may employ their own internal model for EIS representation. Thus tool coordination and internal meta-model transformation should also be supported. According to model-based engineering principles, consistency is ensured, since the EIS view meta-model acts as a  reference point  Prior to using an existing tool, the partial transformation of view metamodel into the tool  s internal meta-model must be facilitated. Using this transformation, the invocation and initialization of any tool can be automatically performed 4. Model-Based Enterprise Information Systems Architecture Design To further elaborate on basic MB-EISE activity model re?nement and the proposed guidelines for constructing EIS cell-related view and the interaction with external cells, the System Network cell of the Zachman matrix is used as example According to INCOSE [16], determining system architecture \(i.e. the way autonomous system components should be synthesized tecture design is the process of de?ning and optimizing the architecture of the information system \(both hardware and software ing that all software components are identi?ed and properly allocated and that hardware resources can provide the 


erly allocated and that hardware resources can provide the desired performance. This activity is performed based on the EIS view corresponding to system network cell, which should facilitate: \(a e.g. a system-oriented view of distributed applications b nition of system performance and availability requirements c d platform-independent distributed infrastructure \(e.g. network architecture and hardware con?guration e ciation of software components to network nodes \(resource allocation requirements EIS architecture design was also discussed in [20]. In the following, we provide a methodology-independent, modelbased EIS enterprise design activity model and describe the corresponding EIS architecture design sub-views as well as Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 Figure 4. EIS Architecture Design basic engineering tasks way they are interrelated to external cells 4.1. First-level Description of EIS Architecture Design MB Activity The basic tasks identi?ed during the EIS architecture design activity are depicted in ?gure 4. These tasks are in alignment with basic engineering tasks performed for each Zachman matrix cell, as depicted in ?gure 3. Collect Requirements task \(as depicted in ?gure 3 through two discrete stages i.e. Functionality De?nition and Requirements De?nition within System Network cell The former depicts functional requirements extracted from People, Data and Function cells of the system model row The latter concerns non functional requirements related to EIS architecture design, extracted from the Motivation cell of System Model row. Requirements included in this cell are either propagated from the upper layers of Zachman framework or speci?cally de?ned for system design and may relate to issues not relevant to EIS architecture design Only architecture design related requirements are propagated within EIS System Network view Next, the solution is synthesized through two interactive steps i.e. Topology De?nition and Network Infrastructure De?nition \( [7], [12 source allocation and replication. This task is performed taken into account the de?nition of system access points in terms of hierarchically related locations performed in upper Network cells \(Business row network cell in particular The term site is used to characterize any location \(i.e. a building, an of?ce, etc tity which can be further analyzed into sub-sites, forming thus a hierarchical structure Network Infrastructure De?nition refers to the aggregate network, described through a hierarchical structure comprising LANs. Devices, such as servers and workstations Figure 5. EIS Sub-Views corresponding to the System Network cell are associated with LANs at the lowest level of the hierarchy. Network nodes are either workstations allocated to users or server stations running server processes. Topology and Network Infrastructure De?nition tasks are interrelated. Both should be performed in the same hierarchical levels of detail. At the lowest level, network nodes should be related to processes/data replicas. In essence, interaction between these two tasks represents an interdependence in terms of derived requirements. Requirements derived during Topology De?nition affect Network Infrastructure Definition and vice versa. Therefore, Requirements De?nition is performed in parallel with Topology and Network Infrastructure De?nition as well. Developing requirements and architectural artifacts in parallel has already been addressed in the literature [23 


in the literature [23 After the solution deployment, validation is performed using simulation. Solution evaluation will determine whether the overall process will end in case the solution is satis?ed or readjustments will be performed through the recurrence of the previous steps The tasks of ?gure 4 corresponding to Requirements Collection and Solution Synthesis \(which presented in ?gure 3 relative views are de?ned, namely, Functional View, Topology View, Network Infrastructure View and Requirements View. These views constitute sub-views of the SystemNetwork view of Zachman framework. Solution validation and evaluation is performed using information included in all of them. Interrelations between corresponding tasks are re?ected upon the introduced views. These interrelations along with the dependencies between the introduced views and the related models of the corresponding Zachman cells are depicted in ?gure 5. Dependencies with external Zachman cells are bidirectional. Functional view obviously is in?uenced by and in?uences People, Data and Function cells of System Model row, while Requirements view interacts with SystemMotivation view. Topology view is bidirectionally related to Business Network view, while Network Infrastructure view to Technology Network view System Network views are illustrated in ?gure 5 in a blackbox manner. A white-box perspective of them will unfold through the description provided in the following paraProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 graph, further elucidating view interdependencies 4.2. Meta-model describing System Network View The meta-model of System Network view, e.g. entities constituting each sub-view and their interrelations, is adjusted to support the identi?ed tasks As depicted in ?gure 6, Functional view encompasses functional requirements derived by external system cells. It focuses on functional speci?cations \(e.g. application architecture, user behavior and data structures considered to be based on multi-tiered, client-server models. Each application tier, called module, comprises services. Application tiers and provided services should be in accordance to the model de?ned in Function cell, thus they act as external entities. User behavior is modeled through roles de?ning the behavior of different user groups. They act as external entities for People cell \(e.g. they could be related to user role entities cate portions of data used by applications. They also act as external entities for Data cell. For each service, a service description sub-view is de?ned indicating network infrastructure resources needed for its execution. The load imposed to network infrastructure resources each time the service is executed is expressed using operations selected from a prede?ned set called Operation Dictionary [21]. Service Description and Operation Dictionary sub-views will be further described latter after discussing Requirements view Topology view facilitates allocation of software, data and people resources. It comprises sites, de?ned in upper Network cells, processes de?ned as instances of server or client modules, user pro?les as instances of roles, and data entity replicas as instances of data entities de?ned in Functional View. The allocation of them to sites corresponds to software architecture design. Sites are organized in a hierarchical structure. Those belonging to the lowest level of the hierarchy are characterized as atomic Network Infrastructure view comprises the overall network decomposed to sub-networks. Devices, such as servers, workstations and other network devices are associated with LANs at the lowest level of the hierarchy. Devices may include a processing unit and a storage unit Networks and network nodes are characterized by capac 


Networks and network nodes are characterized by capacity indications, for example throughput, storage speed or processing power, which should be matched with load requirements, related to Topology view entities. As a result networks are associated to sites de?ned in Topology view while processes, data entity replicas and user pro?les located in atomic sites are allocated to server or workstation devices included in the corresponding LAN Requirements view comprises non-functional requirements derived from the System Motivation cell relevant to EIS architecture design or progressively de?ned during the execution of the EIS Architecture Design tasks. Requirements de?ned within requirement view are satis?ed by speci?c entities included in Functional, Logical and Network Infrastructure views and contribute to inter-view interrelations. In the following we provide a further classi?cation of non-functional requirements based on our objectives in respect to EIS architecture design. Three main categories are supported: performance, constraint and speci?c quality [10 Regarding constraint requirements, we focus on those concerning capacity. Capacity, which has to do with the limitations of the hardware and their impact to the system is related to Network Infrastructure view. Regarding speci?c quality requirements, we consider only availability requirements. They are associated with Network Infrastructure view, where availability deals with hardware aspects Availability requirements may be either derived from upper level requirements, within System Motivation cell, or de?ned with System Network cell during EIS architecture design. Requirements de?ned within System Network cell during EIS architecture design should be passed to EIS System Motivation view As depicted in ?gure 6, performance requirements are further decomposed to behavior, load and utilization. Utilization requirements are associated with Network Infrastructure view and regard the proportion of network infrastructure resources used by applications during normal operation or extreme conditions. Behavior requirements deal with service behavior and are time-related \(e.g. response times 6. Load requirements concern the load imposed to EIS resources by system entities, as processes and data replicas de?ned in Topology view, for example average data transfer load or data processing load imposed by a speci?c process. These requirements are derived ones, which should be calculated for execution of each speci?c service based on behavior requirements and service decomposition described in Service Description sub-view The execution of each service relates to speci?c load requirements imposed to network infrastructure. To identify such requirements the amount of information processed stored or transferred during its execution should be estimated. The Service Description sub-view is introduced for this purpose, de?ned for each service included in Functional view. Since service functionality can be complex, it is not easily described in terms of the amount of information processed, stored or transferred during its execution. To facilitate the progressive estimation of load parameters, a set of operations are de?ned for the description of service load requirements [21]. Operations are selected from a prede?ned set de?ned in Operation Dictionary sub-view, which comprises application and elementary operations. Application Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 Functional View Topology View Requirement View Network Infrastructure View Service Description Sub-view Operation Dictionary Sub-view Operation Activation 


Service Description Service Data Entity Replica Processing Unit Network Device Invoke Derive Specific Quality Non-Functional Performance Requirement Storage Unit Workstation User Profile Application Constraint Availability Transition Functional Data Entity Operation Behavior Utilization Network Process Capacity Module Initiate Invoke Initiate Server Role Load Site Node Call Requirements satisfied by Network Infrastructure View Requirements satisfied by Topology View Requirements satisfied by Functional View 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 source-outgoing source-outgoing target-incoming 1 1 1 1 outgoing1-source1 target -incoming1 source outgoing target incoming target1 incoming source outgoing1 1 1 source outgoing target 


target incoming target incoming target incoming source outgoing Figure 6. EIS System Network View Meta-model operations are those used for service description and must be ultimately decomposed into elementary ones \(i.e. data processing, storing and transferring are estimated through parameter values that are propagated by service invocation parameters to parameters describing application operations constituting the service description which are further propagated to parameters describing elementary operations 4.3. EIS Architecture Design Task Implementation EIS Architecture Design tasks may be supported by existing tools [20]. Systems Modeling Language \(SysML 15] is considered as the most appropriate for EIS System Network model representation and requirement engineering, since it supports the concepts of requirements and resource allocation. As a direct consequence, SysML allows the representation of requirements as model elements which means that requirements are part of the system architecture. For representation purposes, a SysML pro?le for EIS System Network meta-model \(?gure 6 mented as a plugin to MagicDraw modeling tool [2]. In order to facilitate model exchangeability, EIS System Network model is being realized in XML, which is a standard exchangeable format. In order to exchange data with speci?c software tools, model transformations will be accomplished through appropriate XSLTs developed for each tool for example as the one transforming XMI to the EIS System Network document type description \(DTD 5. Case Study In the following we discuss the case of renovating a legacy information system supporting a large-scale public organization based on the proposed concepts. The organization supports more than 350 interconnected regional of?ces and its main purpose is to provide services to the public both citizens and businesses. Regional of?ces are divided into three categories according to their size and information infrastructure requirements \(large, medium and small More than 15.000 employees work in the organization having on-line access to the legacy system. There are more than 300 different services provided to the public, while each citizen is required to register in the one belonging to his/her residential area, called residential of?ce. Some of them require the actual presence of citizens in their residential of?ce Existing system architecture is based on a fat clientserver architecture. All application logic is programmed within the client platform, while data is distributed in local database servers located in each regional of?ce. A Central database is supported in the Datacenter for data synchronization and lookup purposes. The Datacenter and all regional of?ces participate in a private TCP/IP network to facilitate ef?cient data replication. Most data related to a speci?c citizen are maintained as local data in his/her residential of?ce. Client programs access the local database to store data, while they access the central database mostly for lookup purposes. Local data are asynchronously replicated in the central database using a transaction management system \(TMS Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 to facilitate communication with the central database. The central database provides the overall view of each citizen  s record 


record To enhance the level of services provided by the organization, we decided to establish an enhanced e-services environment through an e-government portal. The main target of the portal is to minimize the need for citizen  s presence in regional of?ces and intents to deal with all the drawbacks of the current e-service platform. It provides easy access to citizens and businesses twenty four hours per day, seven days per week. It also promotes the increase of e-services to users, facilitating the organization to accomplish its strategic goals. The portal facilitates on-line transactional services and ensures on-line access to the databases of the legacy information system Provision of transactional e-services re?ects the operation of the legacy system and thus results in its renovation. In order to effectively support both systems \(e.g the portal and the legacy system able to apply the same policies and minimize maintenance cost. Thus, it was decided to explore the renovation of the legacy information system by adopting modern technological trends, such as multi-tiered application architecture server-based computing and light clients. It was decided also to rewrite application code based on J2EE architecture to develop a web interface for the legacy information system in order to support a uni?ed environment for both the legacy system and the portal. This decision affected the legacy system architecture, described in System Network View. Some of issues raised included: \(a database architecture? It is currently distributed. Should it become centralized? What are the implications in the network infrastructure? \(b complished to minimize maintenance cost Though EA was never fully described, the organization had already decided to establish an EA based on Zachman framework a few years ago. RUPmethodology was used for software development, thus application description models were developed within Rational Rose platform. In order to be able to apply the proposed tasks identi?ed in section 4, relative information had to be extracted from the corresponding cells. Application description \(e.g. applications and modules tracted from corresponding Rational Rose ?les. Though the process was not automated, the provision of System Network meta-model, helped architecture designer to identify the information needed to obtain from software designers Detailed service description in terms of load requirements could not be extracted from software description. This was crucial in order to decide upon Intranet and Datacenter architecture. This information was collected by interviewing software developers The new system has to deal with a number of require&lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office oracle L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt tuxido L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department tuxido Central 


tuxido Central lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt R.O. server room lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt oracle net lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt tuxido lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt application lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt Figure 7. Topology View - Existing System ments, with security and availability being the most important ones. Security issues have to do with the security of the network, security of data, authentication control, etc. Availability requirements deal with the backup subsystem, the recovery system and high availability UPS. Privacy must be enforced with the use of cryptography and compression techniques. All these requirements were identi?ed during the System Architecture design process and consequently exported in System Motivation cell where all system requirements are gathered using a simpli?ed text-based requirement description method System Architecture design tasks were performed by existing tools already described in [20]. The existence of System Network meta-model and its implementation in XML facilitated tool integration and interoperability. The identi?cation of primary EIS engineering activities served by Zachman matrix rows and columns facilitated a better understanding between software developers, architecture designers and organization management and enhanced discrete methodology integration. Existing and renovated application architecture of the legacy system de?ned by Topology View are presented in ?gures 7 and 8 respectively. The screenshots are from the MagicDraw [2] tool, enhanced with EIS pro?le to provide the appropriate functionality 6. Conclusions &amp; Future Work MB-EISE process based on Zachman framework was explored in the paper. The designer may adjust basic MB-EISE activity model for each cell, formulate a methodology-independent EIS cell-related view, and ?nally identify methods and tools appropriate for implementing each speci?c task. One could argue that in such a case, 36 distinct EIS sub-views should be de?ned, each of them being rather complex, while basic MB-EISE activity should be adjusted 36 times, resulting in a very complicated process Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Application Server lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt 


lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt web browser lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Web Server lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer &lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt Figure 8. Topology View - Renovated System However, EIS engineering process, as enterprise architecture, is itself complex. The bene?t of the proposed approach is that all aspects \(simple or complex form and modular fashion. Cell-related sub-views and corresponding meta-models, as well as cell-related MB-EISE activity model may be progressively formed according to the designer  s priorities and perspectives Having a black-box view of each Zachman cell, the proposed approach focuses on EIS view integration and interview consistency. The notion of external entities when de?ning EIS cell-related views provides the means for interoperability with external cells, while at the same time facilitates atomicity within the limits of each cell. We are currently emphasizing Business and System rows, and especially Function and Network cells, exploring in parallel Motivation column and the way non-functional requirements are managed Having a white-box view of each Zachman cell, it is evident that the de?nition of a technology neutral metamodel and the identi?cation of basic engineering tasks, corresponding to EIS cell-related views, contributes to the integration of different methodologies and tools. A library of EIS System Network models has been already implemented in XML. Emphasis is given to requirements management and especially requirements derivation References 1] Institute For Enterprise Architecture Developments http://www.enterprise-architecture.info 2] MagicDraw UML. http://www.magicdraw.com 3] A. Aurum and C. Wohlin. Engineering and Managing Software Requirements. Springer, 2005 4] F. S. d. Boer, M. M. Bonsangue, J. Jacob, A. Stam, and L. W N. v. d. Torre. A Logical Viewpoint on Architectures. In EDOC, pages 73  83. IEEE Computer Society, 2004 5] E. R. Byrne. IEEE Standard 830: Recommended Practice for Software Requirements Speci?cations, 1998 6] B. Dave and D. Jim. The new, improved RUP SE Architecture Framework, 2005. IBM Rational Edge 7] D. J. de Villiers. Using the Zachman Framework to assess RUP. Rational Edge, 2001 8] J. A. Estefan. Survey of Model-based Systems Engineering \(MBSE May 2007 9] A. Fatolahi and F. Shams. An investigation into applying UML to the Zachman Framework. Information Systems Frontiers, 8\(2  143, 2006 10] M. Glinz. On non-functional Requirements. 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference, 2007 11] F. Goethals, W. Lemahieu, M. Snoeck, and J. Vandenbulcke. An overview of enterprise architecture framework deliverables. In Banda RKJ \(ed Introduction. ICFAI University Press., 2006 12] H.-P. Hoffmann. Harmony-SE/SysML Deskbook: ModelBased Systems Engineering with Rhapsody, Rev. 1.51 Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 


Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 13] IEEE. IEEE Recommended Practice for Architectural Description for Software-Intensive Systems - Std 1471. Technical report, oct 2000 14] O. M. G. Inc. UML 2.0 Superstructure Speci?cation, October 2004 15] O. M. G. Inc. Systems Modeling Language \(SYSML i?cation. Version 1.0, September 2007 16] INCOSE. INCOSE Handbook SE Process Model, September 2003. http://g2sebok.incose.org 17] Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers. IEEE Std 15288 -2004, Systems Engineering -System Life Cycle Processes, June 2005 18] A. v. Lamsweerde. Goal-Oriented Requirements Engineering: A Guided Tour. In Fifth IEEE International Symposium on Requirements Engineering \(RE  01 19] S. Leist and G. Zellner. Evaluation of current architecture frameworks. In H. Haddad, editor, SAC, pages 1546  1553 ACM, 2006 20] M. Nikolaidou and N. Alexopoulou. Enterprise Information System Engineering: A Model-Based Approach Based on the Zachman Framework. In HICSS  08. IEEE Computer Society, 2008 21] M. Nikolaidou and D. Anagnostopoulos. A systematic approach for con?guring web-based information systems Journal of Distributed and Parallel Databases, 17\(3  290, May 2005 22] C. M. Pereira and P. Sousa. A method to de?ne an Enterprise Architecture using the Zachman Framework. In H. Haddad A. Omicini, R. L. Wainwright, and L. M. Liebrock, editors SAC, pages 1366  1371. ACM, 2004 23] K. Pohl and E. Sikora. Supporting the Co-Design of Requirements and Architectural Artifacts. In 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference \(RE  07 pages 258  261, India Habitat Center, New Delhi, 2007 24] J. Schekkerman. How to Survive in the Jungle of Enterprise Architecture Frameworks: Creating or Choosing an Enterprise Architecture Framework. Trafford, 2003 25] J. F. Sowa and J. A. Zachman. Extending and Formalizing the Framework for Information Systems Architecture. IBM Systems Journal, 31\(3  616, 1992 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207ñ216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intíl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intíl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





