 Establishing Trust Management in an Open Source Collaborative Information Repository: An Emergency Response Information System Case Study  Evren Eryilmaz Claremont Graduate University evren.eryilmaz@cgu.edu  Mitch Cochran Claremont Graduate University mitch.cochran@cgu.edu  Sumonta Kasemvilas Claremont Graduate University sumonta.kasemvilas@cgu.edu  
 Abstract  This paper explores the design and evaluation of a trust model to establish trust management in an open source collaborative information repository for an emergency response environment. The proposed model is an instantiation of the SECURE framework and it is based on the characteristics of trust defined by recent information systems research. Evaluation of the model is based on a case study of a drill conducted by a city 
in Southern California. The results suggest that the proposed model might be us eful to provide timely action plans for specific types of incidents based on the level trust and risk. However, a common terminology among involved organizations must exist prior to implementing the proposed model. In addition information is volatile in an emergency response environment and rapid changes in conditions influence the consensus among entities. Therefore, verifying the accuracy of the emergency information used by the 
proposed model is essential to establish trust management in this particular context   1  Introduction  Collaborative information repositories are becoming increasingly common because new open source content management systems allow a cost effective way of creating and maintaining shared content. Within these repositories, collaborating participants are autonomous in regards to what they 
contribute because any participant can edit information that he or she thinks is incomplete or poorly organized  e arch cons iders t h is particu lar characteristic as a source of strength as well as weakness o n e h a n d participa n ts can express their voices easily by editing and organizing the shared content with a Web browser Therefore, the contributions of good intentioned and careful participants can expand and improve the 
content of the shared repository. On the other hand, it is a challenge to convert individual skills and efforts into a collaboratively generated information repository because participants may have different levels of knowledge and writing ability h u s inf o r m a tion provided by different participants may have varying quality. Furthermore, content accuracy may be transitory due to rapid change [2, 7 In th is con t e x t  
trust management becomes an important issue because without some form of trust management collaborative information repositories face the difficulty of defending their level of correctness and authoritativeness   Another characteristic of collaborative information repositories is the scale of the group. On one hand, a repository may accept contributions from a diversity of 
participants who are not known to potential end users For instance, Wikipedia has 6,827,080 registered users as of April 6, 2008 [11 T h is particu l ar repos itor y i s  based on the assumption that valuable content can be created when good intentioned and careful users outnumber bad intentioned and careless users Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


 Wikipedia puts trust in the collective knowledge of a large-scale distributed community hoping that given enough eyeballs all bugs are shallow 3, p ce Wikipedia s technical implementation does not provide a gate keeping function to ensure quality material is being contribu th e oth e r h a n d a repos itory  may also allow contributions from only registered users in certain roles to prevent potential vandalism by anonymous users. Furthermore, an editor-in-chief may be responsible for the accuracy of the content. For example, students may write a document collaboratively in a class and the instructor may act as the editor-in-chief Recent events such as September 11 and Hurricane Katrina highlighted communication as the primary challenge in responding to emergency situations [14  A l t h ough t h ere h a v e been argum ents o n t h e  suitability of open source collaborative information repositories for emergency respons organizations acting in this particular environment are limited by their institutional and technical capacity when selecting an emergency response information system. Furthermore, the success of Sahana, an open source emergency response information system developed in Sri Lanka immediately after the Indian Ocean tsunami, clearly motivates our intention to use an open source information system in this paper. A group of Sri Lankan IT industry volunteers initially built Sahana in three weeks before it became a part of the official portal for Center of National Operations Some of the rewards Sahana received include the Red Hat User Award and nomination for the SourceForge Project of the month in June 2006   This paper focuses on a temporary electronic group of professionals, volunteers, and untrained observers who previously have not worked together respond to an emergency situation, and it seeks to provide a measure of confidence in the accuracy of information developed by this group in a collaborative information repository. We investigate how to enable trust management in an open source collaborative information repository for an emergency response situation while still maintaining the ease and efficiency of user contributions There are six sections in this article. The following section describes trust, temporary electronic groups emergency response information system, and the relationship among them. The third section explains the related scholarship. The fourth section identifies the proposed trust model. The fifth section evaluates the proposed model through a case study approach The paper concludes with a discussion of the findings and implications for future research  2. Trust, Temporary Electronic Group and Emergency Response Information System  This section looks at three core concepts: Trust temporary electronic group, emergency response information system, and the relationship among them  2.1 Trust  As an interdisciplinary research area, trust has many definitions in a wide range of domains from sociology and psychology to political and business science, and these definitions may change according to the application domain [19, 20, 21 o r in s t an ce sociologists consider trust as a social structure psychologists recognize trust as a personal trait economists see trust as a mechanism of economic choice and risk management e cen t inf o r m atio n  systems research referred to the following definitions to describe trust   A particular level of the subjective probability with which an agent will perform a particular action both before he can monitor such action \(or independently of his capacity ever to be able to monitor it\ and in a context in which it affects his own action 22  p. 2     The willingness of a party to be vulnerable to the actions of another party based on the expectation that the other will perform a particular action important to the trustor irrespective of the ability to monitor or control that other party 23, p. 7    A subjective assessment of another s influence in terms of the extent of one s perceptions about the quality and significance of another s impact over one s outcomes in a given situation, such that one s expectation of, openness to, and inclination toward such influence provide a sense of control over the potential outcomes of the situation 24, p 43  These definitions point out that trust is subjective because every individual makes his or her own decision to trust Other characteristics of trust used in recent information systems papers are context dependent composite property, dynamic, and measurable. Context dependent means that trust in one environment does not directly transfer to another environment o r  instance, Alice may trust Bob as her car mechanic to repair her car, but not as a baby sitter. Composite property indicates that trust is based on a composition of different factors depending on the environment  Dynamic specifies that trust is sensitive to the changes Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


 in a contex n all y   meas u rable s t ates t h at t h e  level of trust can be represented by a continuous real numb h is ch aracteris tic als o prov ides  the  foundation for trust modeling. However, it should be noted that trust may have other characteristics based on the application domain. In this context, Rousseau, et al   am i n ed t h e ov erlap an d sy n t h e s i s i n the  scholarship on trust This paper views trust as a dynamic domainspecific belief or attitude held by an individual concerning confidence in the accuracy of collaboratively created and updated content. Trust is essential for professionals and volunteers operate as a collective in a crisis because it promotes open substantive, and influential information exchange which increases the likelihood that constructive controversy among entities will result in information useful for decision making  2.2 Temporary Electronic Group  A temporary electronic group is formed around a clear purpose and common task with a finite life span  d its  m e m b ers i n t e ract pri m a ril y t h rou gh computer-mediated communication. The term temporary means that members may have never worked together before and they may not expect to work together again as a group [31  In an emergency response environment, the nature of a crisis is the primary factor that often requires forming temporary electronic groups. Furthermore, the members of these groups are trained to perform a number of different roles because it is never certain who will take on which role or which combination of roles in Since temporary electronic groups for emergency response come together to help victims in high stress situations, group members have a limited amount of time to become familiar with each othe Therefore, they rely on a high level of activity in order to manage ambiguity, risk, and points of vulnerability regarding a collaboratively evolving information repository  2.3 Emergency Response Information System  An emergency is typically is characterized as unpredictable in terms of unforeseen events which evolve as a result of the nature of a crisis, exact actions and responsibilities of individuals, and exceptions to a planned response f o rm at i o n  sy s t e m s ai d i n t h e  management of emergency response by facilitating the information flow, decision making, and coordination management [35, 36  A c c o r d i ng t o  3 2   a n  emergency response information system is a structured group of communication system where the protocols and co mmunication structures are provided, but there is little content about a particular crisis situation except as an integrated electronic library of ext ernal data and information sources p. 10  An effective emergency response information system should provide timely access to comprehensive relevant, and reliable information in order to help emergency responders to collect, analyze, disseminate and act on key information to better meet the needs of victims [15, 17 A lth o u g h it is n e v e r certain  w h o  w ill  perform which role or which combinations of roles in a crisis, actions and privileges of the roles need to be well defined in the software. In addition, emergency responders must be trained to act as a collective by using the software when they assume multiple or changing roles [32    3  Related Literature  This work is based on general literature in two areas: designing an effective emergency response information system and the issue of trust for collaborative information repositories From an emergency management perspective, prior research considers coordination and dissemination of timely and accurate information as major challenges for designing effective emergency response information systems th is co n t e x t, S h en e t al    s ed coo r din a tion th eo ry a n d th eor y o f tas ktechnology fit to examine the impact of information system design on emergency coordination requirements. Their findings suggest that the capabilities of an emergency response information system should support coordination mechanisms Turoff i d ed a f r a m e w ork bas e d on n i n e  premises to assist researchers and practitioners think about issues prior to designing a flexible and dynamic emergency response information system. Following Turoff h e n et al   v e s t i g ated both s i n g le and multi-incident scenarios and they presented a set of principles for designing an effective emergency response information system There have been a number of studies that address the trust challenge in collaborative information repositories and, due to its popularity, most of them were quantitative studies focused on Wikipedia Although these approaches were not intended to support trust management in emergency response, this paper uses an open source system similar to Wikipedia and to the best of our knowledge establishing trust management in an open source collaborative information repository for emergency response has not been investigated. Therefore, we reviewed the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


 literature on Wikipedia to identify how researchers approached the issue of trust in Wikipedia and to what extent these approaches could be applicable to emergency response Lih oach ed Wik i pedia f r o m a  participatory journalism perspective and he found that when Wikipedia articles are cited by the press their quality, which was measured indirectly by the total number of edits \(rigor\d the total number of unique editors \(diversity increased quickly  Viégas et al  2 use d a hi st o r y  fl o w vi sua l i z a t i o n  tool to identify five types of vandalism that could reduce the quality of active Wikipedia articles: \(1 Mass deletion suggests removing all or a significant percent of an article; \(2\ensive copy refers to adding inappropriate words; \(3\ony copy means inserting text that is not related to a page topic; \(4 Phony redirection implies redirecting to an unrelated page; \(5\diosyncratic copy indicates adding biased information. Stvilia et al  3 s idered qu alit y a s  fitness for use and the authors identified ten information quality problem types encountered by the Wikipedia community and the types of user information activities that might be affected by those problems McGuiness et al   n dicated th at us er rati ng schemes may not be sufficient to determine the trustworthiness of a collaborative information repository because an article rated trustworthy may not still be trustworthy if modified. In this context McGuiness et al   s u m e d th at W i k i pedia articles  could be segmented into a sequence of text fragments and they considered a fragment of an article as a collection of text in the article which was contributed by one author in one revision. To address trust issues McGuiness et al   s ed t w o ci t a t i onbas e d t r us t  algorithms, the link-ratio algorithm and the page-rank algorithm. Citation-based trust suggested that a well cited article might be more trustworthy than an article with no citations. On one hand, the authors defined the link ratio of an article \(i.e., the page with title x\ as the ratio between the number of citations and the number of non-citation occurrences of the encyclopedia term x On the other hand, the authors viewed page-rank as a reflection of the relative popularity of an article in a collection of articles. However, the authors indicated that neither the link-ratio algorithm nor the page-rank algorithm was effective enough alone for computing trustworthiness. The authors found that the link-ratio result could be dependent on how common a term was and how much it required supplemental information Therefore, the authors could not determine whether low link-ratio was due to untrustworthiness. In addition, the authors showed that a page with a low rank value could have a higher link ratio value than a page with a high rank value Zeng, et al  10 inve sti g a t e d t h e r e visio n  histo r y o f  a Wikipedia article to compute trust value for the article. Their main assumption was that an article might gain or lose trustworthiness based on author trustworthiness. Therefore, the researchers used author trustworthiness as an input. In order to model how trust evolved through article revisions, the authors used dynamic Bayesian networks. The results of the study showed a significant improvement over citation based trust In comparison to Zeng et al   d ler et al 3 9   computed author reputation as output and suggested that author reputation could be used for two purposes 1\ An indicator of quality of fresh text; \(2\ To manage author activity by means such as preventing low reputation authors from editing certain pages Dond arg u e d that th e f a s t ch a n ging  nature of Wikipedia articles complicated calculating trust values based on past evidence. They supported their claim by referring to another study which found that user past experience with a Web site is only the 14 th most important among the criteria used to assess the quality of a Web site In th is con t ex t, Don d io  e s t i g ated h o w to ev a l u a te t h e trustworthiness of Wikipedia articles by relying exclusively on their present state These Wikipedia-oriented studies point out two factors to calculate trust in an emergency response environment. The first factor, author trustworthiness implies that a piece of information gains or loses trustworthiness based on author trustworthiness. In an emergency response situation, decisions are made with incomplete and sometimes contradictory information because accurate and complete information is rarely available in the beginning and only over time does a more clear picture emerge T h eref ore, e m erg e n c y  responders are more likely to trust to professionals than volunteers. The second factor is considering the present state of information. Emergency response is a dynamic environment that is measured in minutes and seconds dden an d u n e x p ected ch a n g e s in a crisis can affect the validity of the present information available in the collaborativ e repository for decision making. Hence, the time nature of the present information available in the repository should be taken into consideration when calculating a trust value for emergency response information  4  Trust Model  This section identifies the conceptual model of a trust algorithm based on the SECURE framework and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


 it presents a common incident as an example to facilitate our discussion on the proposed model SECURE is a trust/risk-based security framework that aims to provide entities with a basis for reasoning about trust and risk when there is uncertainty about the outcome of an interacti T w o h i gh l e v e l  processes run parallel to each other in the SECURE framework. The first high level process, the decision making process, helps an entity to decide what action to take due to a request made by another entity. There are two components in the decision making process Trust engine and risk engine. The trust engine dynamically assesses the trustworthiness of the requesting entity based on evidence such as observation or recommendation [41  T h e r i sk e ngi ne  dynamically evaluates the risk involved in the interaction and chooses the action with appropriate cost-benefit for the decision maker. The second high level process, evidence processing, gathers recommendations and comparisons between expected outcomes of the chosen actions and real outcomes  This evidence is used for trust and risk related calculations and it is collected in the evidence store Based on Cahill et al  4  SE CURE c a n b e  adapted to a variety of application scenarios. The model proposed below is an instantiation of the SECURE framework to establish trust management in an open source collaborative information repository for an emergency response environment The trust model shown in Figure 1 acknowledges that an algorithm which establishes trust management for collaboratively created and modified information repositories should reflect the characteristics of trust consider the factors that influence trust, and support trust management in a feasible way [21  W e co nsi d e r  trust management as the activity of collecti ng, codifying, analyzing and evaluating evidence relating to competence honesty, security, or dependability with the purpose of making assessments and decisions regarding trust relationships 44, p. 14    Figure 1  Overview of algorithm  In this model, assessing the trustworthiness of collaboratively created and modified information starts with the monitoring module by noticing a change in a collaboratively written page and notifying the data retrieval module to collect information from the database. Then, the context recognition module examines the retrieved information to identify its context. The trust calculator needs context information because context influences weight of trust factors. For instance, trust in shared content may be influenced by information quality problems defined by Stvilia et al    t th e i m pact o f diff e r en t proble m s co u l d be various in dissimilar contexts Based on the context information, the trust calculator acquires trust factors and their weights in the relevant context from the evidence store. This model uses two trust factors: author trustworthiness and information timeliness. The first trust factor, author trustworthiness, refers to the identity of the emergency responder who provided the information. Author trustworthiness may provide confidence on a piece of information to a decision maker because emergency responders rapidly process incomplete and sometimes contradictory information to take immediate mitigating action under conditions where error tolerance is extremely low. In this model, the weight of the author trustworthiness depends on emergency responders  role. A role can be professional, certified volunteer, or untrained observer The second trust factor, information timeliness indicates when an author contributed a piece of information to the collabor ative information repository Due to the time dependence of emergency response, a piece of information may lose its validity over the course of minutes based on the dynamic nature of a particular situation. Therefore, providing the timeliness of the present information available in the collaborative repository may assist emergency responders to determine whether they are using the most current information to make a decision. In this model, the weight of the information timeliness decreases as time passes to indicate that a piece of information may not reflect the changes in an incident  Afterward, the trust calculator analyzes the information content by using the trust factors and it estimates a continuous real number trust value which represents confidence in the accuracy of information content The risk evaluator needs context information too because context also influences situations involving risk. Similar to  Grandison et is paper v i e w s risk as probability of failure with respect to the context of the interaction p.147\The model links trust to risk because the degree of trust implies a certain amount of risk which an entity may or may not Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


 accept. In general, if there is low trust in the information, then the higher the risk. From this perspective, the purpose of the risk evaluator is to recognize the risks properly and communicate them effectively to all entities in an emergency response situation. To do this, the risk evaluator refers to the evidence store to get the knowledge acquired from similar prior incidents to estimate the probability for a hazard to occur in the current emergency situation The evidence store contains all trust and risk related data defined by local rules. Entities with certain roles could use the specification editor to either create and/or edit the data stored in the evidence store. The algorithm has two outputs: The context specific continuous real number trust value and the probability of a hazard to occur in the current emergency situation Although trust is subjective in nature, the output of this algorithm could provide information that will enable one to make a better decision whenever a decision is to be made. Furthermore, trust is also dynamic in nature. Therefore, the monitoring module is dedicated to observe the changes in the collaborative information database and it starts the entire process again when an entity changes a collaboratively written page To facilitate our discussion on the proposed model we have developed a scenario involving a fire department response. In this scenario, we imagine a resident \(untrained observer\ detecting an incident and creating a new page in the collaborative information repository with the title sighting of smoke The monitoring module recognizes this newly created page and it notifies the data retrieval module to collect the information posted on the page such as incident name source of information, actions needed, and time stamp from the collaborative information repository database Then, the context recognition module uses natural language processing techniques to look for phrases such as single family residence fire or hazardous material incident to identify the context of the incident At this point, the context of the example is the sighting of smoke detected by an untrained observer but not verified by a professional. The normal response of the fire department to this situation is to send a single fire engine to investigate the sighting of smoke Based on this context information, the trust calculator acquires trust factors and their weights in this particular context from the evidence store. The first trust factor is author trustworthiness, and untrained observers will generally have a weight less than certified volunteers and professionals because the information they provide may be biased by their lack of training, lack of comprehension, background, and/or verbalization w e v e r  th e s p eci f i c num erical  value of the weight will depend on the priority of the incident because a higher priority incident such as a wildfire or freeway accident in some sense requires more resources \(fire engines, personnel\han a single trashcan fire The second trust factor is information timeliness and it indicates the time incident detection took place by an untrained observer at a given time. Although the completeness of information at this stage is low, it is the most current information to this point. Therefore the weight of information timeliness of the incident detection will be high. But this weight will decrease over time depending on the dynamic nature of the type incident determined in the evidence store Based on these two factors, the trust calculator will use a mathematical formula which reflects the relationship between author trustworthiness and information timeliness within the given context, and it will estimate a continuous real number trust value to represent confidence in the accuracy of information content In this scenario, the sighting of smoke could indicate the following situations: Barbeque, trash fire house fire, factory fire which could possibly include hazardous components. We assume hazardous materials as a risk in fire department response because the detection of hazardous materials requires fire fighters to change their strategy when dealing with the fire. In order to assess the probability of detecting hazardous materials within the given context, the risk evaluator examines past responses to similar incidents in the evidence store and calculates the probability of detecting hazardous materials in the current incident based on city zoning guidelines. The risk factor would change depending on the location of the smoke. For example, a light industrial zone would have a higher risk of hazardous material compared to residential area In emergency response, decisions are time sensitive  rom th i s pers pectiv e i n correct decis i on  m a king  can lead to a fault in resource allocation and it will take time to recover the resources for other us   Therefore, the focus of the model is to both help lower response times and provide a more efficient resource allocation. The model has two outputs in this scenario The first output is to provide decision makers confidence in the accuracy of information that they use when they make a decision. The second output is to assist emergency responders with their risk assessments by making the potential risk involved in this scenario explicit. The table below represents possible responses to the scenario based on the level of trust and risk     Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


 Table 1. Responses for trust and risk levels   Low Trust High Trust High Risk Response depends on available resources If there is good availability then full response for that type of incident If there is poor availability then limited response for that type of incident Full or greater response Low Risk Send one fire engine to investigate Full response for that type of incident  5. Evaluation of the Trust Model  This section identifies how the proposed model could be implemented in an emergency response environment. The case study explained below is based on a mass casualty drill and small city Emergency Operations Center \(EOC\vation The mass casualty drill was held at the training tower of Monrovia Fire Department s Station 102. The stated objective of the drill was to address lack of communication among agencies during an emergency response. The participants in the mass casualty drill and EOC activation included   City of Monrovia: Fire Department, Police Department, and all departments  as part of the EOC   Monrovia Unified School District   Schafer Ambulance: Responsible for transporting medical patients within the City of Monrovia   American Red Cross: Disaster Coordinator   Arcadia Methodist Hospital: Emergency room Continuing Education Coordinator To improve communication among these participants, we used Drupal as an open source content management system to build a collaborative information repository as a proof of concept with three main parts: volunteer tracking, patient tracking, and incident tracking The first part, volunteer tracking, focused on capturing volunteers capabilities, their present locations, and the tasks they are involved in during the drill. The second part, patient tracking, aimed at monitoring the number of patients, their conditions and the hospitals they go to The last part, incident tracking, addressed sharing necessary and current information among all entities to manage incidents. This feature of the system was similar to a Wikipedia article in the sense that each incident became a written description about what was happening. All entities affected by the information on an incident page were encouraged to update anything that they thought was incomplete, inaccurate, or poorly organized The access to the system was controlled by a virtual private network connection into the City s network The remote participants only needed a browser and connection to the internet Considering the small scale of the drill and the explorative nature of our study, we conducted semistructured interviews with Monrovia Fire Department personnel at the mass casualty scene, Monrovia City EOC. Feedback received from the Monrovia City EOC indicates that the main issue during the drill in regards to trust was information inaccuracy. The community services director stressed that After the briefing I can come back and say that the information we received is actually not accurate We need to verify what has been said Therefore, the Monrovia City EOC staff specified that they need to have some form of corroborative evidence to verify the accuracy of the information In a crisis there are requests for resources and incident commander has to decide if a request can be satisfied right away or has to be denied or delayed  In th is drill, th e i n ciden t com m a n d er s evaluation of the request was based in part on his trust of the information contained in the request and in part on the source of request. In regards to the source of the request, the battalion chief indicated that he had little trust in untrained observers \(public\who report seeing smoke or smelling gas, more trust in certified volunteers and outside firefighters, and full trust in Verdugo Dispatch \(joint dispatch for thirteen cities and Monrovia Fire Department personnel  When evaluating risks in dangerous and dynamic environments, the battalion chief expressed that a commanding officer uses his or her field experience that may not be a part of the regular training activity An incident commander places a high level of trust in his or her own experience because a person probably trusts in himself or herself more than others. From this perspective, transforming tacit knowledge into explicit knowledge and storing the resulting explicit knowledge in a repository \(evidence store\ust be taken into consideration for the risk evaluator module in the proposed model As for the application of the trust model to this particular case, the Information Systems Manager in the EOC staff remarked that the trust model could be integrated to the open source collaborative information repository as a decision support tool for all agencies participating the drill. Thus, he suggested that the evidence store should be pre-loaded with response Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


 policies, rules, and pre-action plans so it can provide timely action plans for specific types of incidents based on the level of trust and risk Although Monrovia Fire Department personnel Monrovia City EOC staff, and American Red Cross staff played different roles in the mass casualty drill they all agreed on three areas. First, the incident information put into the system was volatile due to rapid changes in conditions. Therefore, users trusted a piece of information more when it received more updates since there would be corroborative evidence Second, interoperability was an issue on the pages because different organizations used different terminologies and drill participants did not trust the information that they did not understand. In this context, communication difficulties led to lower trust Third, the proposed model and the developed system were more applicable to larger incidents because small incidents are cleared before the application or resources could be deployed  6. Conclusion  Trust is difficult to understand because it is influenced by many factors and the weight of the factors could change depending on the context Although trust management and Wikipedia as a common collaborative information repository have received a lot of attention, to the best of our knowledge, establishing trust management in an open source collaborative information repository that aims to improve communication among various organizations in an emergency environment has not been investigated This explorative study proposed a trust model and evaluated it through a case study which took place during a mass casualty drill and small city Emergency Operations Center \(EOC\ activation. In an emergency environment, information is volatile due to rapid changes in conditions. This characteristic is important for assessing trustworthiness of collaboratively created and maintained information because the changes in conditions influence the consensus among entities This is why the Monrovia City EOC staff wanted to see some form of verification in order to trust the information posted on an incident page because information inaccuracy implied to them the risk of making inefficient resource allocations. In this context establishing a checkpoint within certain time intervals to synchronize the information among entities could verify that the trust model is using accurate information and provide corroboration for reported information Another implication of this study is the need to establish a common terminology among participating organizations. This assertion echoes the work of [45  th i s drill, eac h or gan i zation u s ed it s o w n terminology when contributing information to collaboratively written pages. Not understanding the terminology used on a page implied lack of trust on the information content A decision support system for emergency response should have mechanisms to provide decision makers appropriate inputs to resolve emerging conflicts and propose optimal solutions T h e m odel propos ed in  this paper used trust calculator and risk evaluator as mechanisms to help decision makers under conditions where error tolerance is low The application of the trust model to this particular case suggests that the proposed model might be useful to provide timely action plans for specific types of incidents based on the level of trust and risk A limitation that we acknowledge in this study is the generalizability of the proposed model. Trust is context dependent, therefore the proposed model may not be applicable to other situations. Furthermore, the following issues must be taken into consideration before the proposed model can support the main objective of the current work: Establishing a common terminology among participating organizations building a knowledge repository for the risk evaluation module, and testing the proposed model in a larger scale drill  7. Acknowledgments  We would like to thank to the participants in our study for their cooperation and Lorne Olfman for his critical comments that have improved the paper  8. References  1 O. A j a y i, R. Sinn ott, a nd A  Ste l l Trust Realisation in Collaborative Clinical Trial Systems 6 th  IEEE/ACIS International Conference on Computer and Information Science, Melbourne, Australia, 2007 2 F.B. Vi g a s M. W a tte nbe rg  K. Da v e  Studying Cooperation and Conflict between Authors with History Flow Visualizations In Proceedings of SIGCHI Vienna, Austria, 2004 3 B. Stv ilia M B. T w ida l e  L   G a s s e r a nd L C. Sm ith  Information Quality Discussions in Wikipedia  International Conference on Knowledge Management 2005  D.L  M c G u in n e ss,  H. Zen g P.P. Silva, L. Ding, D Narayan, and M. Bhaowal Investigations Into Trust for Collaborative Information Repositories: A Wikipedia Case Study Workshop on the Models of Trust for the Web \(MTW'06\burgh, Scotland 2006 5 P. D ond io, S  Ba rre tt, S. W e be r a nd J  M. Se ig ne ur  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


 Extracting Trust from Domain Analysis: A Case Study on Wikipedia Project Proceedings of the 3 rd  International Conference on Autonomic and Trusted Computing, Wuhan, China, 2006 6 P. Don d i o a n d S. Ba rre tt Computational Trust in Web Content Quality: A Comparative Evaluation on the Wikipedia Project  Informatica Journal vol. 31 pp. 151-160, 2007  T  P eaco ck G  F e l l o w s  an d K E u st ace  The Quality and Trust of Wiki Content in a Learning Community Proceedings ascilite Singapore 2007 8 R. P r ie dh ors k y  J  Che n, S. T  K  L a m   K  P a nc ie ra L   Terveen, and J. Riedl Creating, Destroying, and Restoring Value in Wikipedia Proceedings of the 2007 International ACM Conference on Supporting Group Work, 2007 9 W  E m ig h a nd S.C. H e rring  Collaborative authoring on the Web: A Genre Analysis of Online Encyclopedias Proceedings of the 38 th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2005 1 H Zen g M  A l h o ssain i  R Fikes D L  M c G u in n e ss  Mining Revision History to Assess Trustworthiness of Article Fragments The 2 nd International Conference on Collaborative Computing Networking, Applications and Worksharing collaboratecom'06\tlanta, 2006 11  W i k i pe dia A pril,200 8 i k i pe d i a n s  Re trie v e d A p ril 6, 2008 from Wikipedia Web site http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Wikipedians  12  C unn ing h a m W  a nd B  L e uf  The Wiki Way Quick Collaboration on the Web Addison-Wesley 2001   13   L i h Wikipedia As Participatory Journalism Reliable Sources? Metrics for Evaluating Collaborative Media as a News Resource 5 th  International Symposium on Online Journalism Austin, TX, 2004 14  B  S  M a n o j a n d A  H  B a k e r   Communication Challenges in Emergency Response  Communications of the ACM vol. 50, pp. 51-53 2007 15  B. V a n  d e W a l l e  M  T u ro ff   Emergency Response Information Systems: Emerging Trends and Technologies  Communications of the ACM vol. 50 pp.29-31, 2007 16  T   A  H o ra n, M Ma ric h a n d B. Sc ho ole y  TimeCritical Information Services: Analysis and Workshop Findings on Technology, Organizational and Policy Dimensions to Emergency Response and Related E-Governmental Services Proceedings of the 2006 International Conference on Digital Government Research, San Diego, 2006   1 P  d i M a i o   An Open Ontology for Open Source Emergency Response System Retrieved on June 5 th  2008 from MIT Web site http://opensource.mit.edu/online_papers.php?lim=100 0  18  P. C u rrio n C  de Silv a  a nd B  Va n de W a lle  Open Source Software for Disaster Management  Communications of the ACM vol. 50, pp. 61-65 2007 19 P. Don d i o a n d S. Ba rre tt Computational Trust in Web Content Quality: A Comparative Evaluation on the Wikipedia Project  Informatica Journal vol. 31 pp. 151-160, 2007 20  M. De Cock and P.P. da Silv a A Man y Valued Representation and Propagation of Trust and Distrust,Ž LNCS, pp.108-113, 2006  21  Y a n, Z a n d S H o l t m a nns  Trust Modeling and Management: from Social Trust to Digital Trust  Book chapter of Computer Security, Privacy and Politics: Current Issues, Challenges and Solutions IGI Global, 2007 22 a m b e tta  D  Can We Trust Trust Oxford Blackwell, 1988 23  R  C  Ma y e r, J  H  D a v i s  a nd F D  Sc hoorm a n An Integrative Model of Organizational Trust The Academy of Management Review vol. 20, pp. 709734, 1995 24 D  M Rom a no The Nature of Trust: Conceptual and Operational Clarification Louisiana State University. PhD Thesis, 2003 25  A  J o s a ng  E G r ay  a nd M. K i na te de r Simplification and Analysis of Transitive Trust Networks Web Intelligence and Agent System Journal Vol. 4, pp 139-161, 2006 26  S P  G unde r g a n, a n d G  P. G u n d e r g a n A Dynamic Theory of Collaboration and Decision-Making  Proceedings of the 35th A nnual Hawaii In ternational Conference on System Sciences, Hawaii, 2002 27  Y  Sun  W  Y u Z H a n, a n d K  J  R. L i u Information Theoretic Framework of Trust Modeling and Evaluation for Ad Hoc Networks  IEEE Journal on Selected Area in Communications vol. 24, pp.  305317, 2006 28  D.M. Ro u s seau S.B  Sitk i n  Bu rt, R S an d C  Camerer Not So Different After All: A CrossDiscipline View of Trust  Academy of Management Review vol. 23, pp.  393-385, 1998 29  S.L  J a rv e npa a  K  K noll, a n d D  E. L e idne r Is anybody out there? Antecedents of Trust in Global Virtual Teams  JMIS vol. 14, pp. 29-64, 1998 30 D  Me y e r s on, K  E  W e ic k  a nd R  M. K r a m e r  Swift Trust and Temporary Groups Thousand Oaks, CA Sage Publications 1996 31  S.L  Jarv enpaa and D E  L e i d n e r Communication and Trust in Global Virtual Teams  JCMC vol. 10 pp. 791-815, 1999 32  M. T u roff M. C hum be r, B  Va n de W a lle X. Y a o The Design of Dynamic Emergency Response Management Information Systems \(DERMIS  Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application vol. 5, pp. 1-35, 2004 33   N. W  Copp ola  S. R. Hiltz  a nd N. G  Rotte r Building Trust in Virtual Teams  IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication vol 47, pp. 95-104, 2004 34 M T u ro f f   Past and Future Emergency Response Information Systems Communications of the ACM vol.45, pp.29-32, 2002  35 H. Che n F. Y  W a ng a nd D Ze ng  Intelligence and Security Informatics for Homeland Security Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


 Information, Communication, and Transportation  IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems vol. 5, pp. 329-341, 2004 3 Ki m JK S h arman R et al  2 00 6   Framework for Analyzing Critical Incident Management Systems  39 th Hawaii International Conference on System Science, Hawaii, 2006 37  R. Ch en  R Sh arm a n  H. R  Rao  a n d  S. J  Upadhyaya Design Principles for Critical Incident Response Systems  Information Systems and EBusiness Management vol. 5, pp. 201-227, 2007 38  S. Y  She n a nd M  J  Sha w  Managing Coordination in Emergency Response Systems with Information Technologies 10 th American Conference on Information Systems, New York, 2004 39  B.T   A d le r a nd L  de  A l f a r o  Content Driven Reputation System for the Wikipedia  Proceedings of the 16 th International World Wide Web Conference, Alberta, Canada, 2007 4  B  J F o gg C  So oh oo  D R  Da n i el so n  L M a r a b l e J Stanford, and E.R. Tauber How Do Users Evaluate the Credibility of Web Sites Proceedings of DUX2003, Designing for User Experiences Conference, 2003 41 J-M. Se ig ne ur C. D Je nse n  The Role of Identity in Pervasive Computational Trust Dublin, Trinity College Dublin, Department of Computer Science TCD-CS-2004-48, 2004 42 J-M. Se ig ne ur V  Ca hill C. D Je nse n E. G r a y Y Chen SECURE Framework Architecture \(Beta  Technical Report TCD-CS-2004-07, Trinity College Dublin, 2004 43 Ca hill V    G r a y E  Se ig ne ur J M  Je nse n C.D    Yong Chen Shand B Dimmock N Twigg A Bacon J English C Wagealla W Terzis S Nixon, P.   Di Marzo Serugendo, G.   Bryce, C Carbone, M.   Krukow, K.   Nielson, M  Using Trust for Secure Collaboration in Uncertain Environments  IEEE Pervasive Computing vol. 2, pp. 52-61, 2003 44  T   G r a ndis on a nd M. Sl om an Specifying and Analyzing Trust for Internet Applications Second IFIP Conference on e-Commerce, e-Business, eGovernence, I3e2002, Lisbon, 2002 45 Z. O. T o u p s a n d A  Ke rne  Implicit Coordination in Firefighting Practice: Design Implications for Teaching Fire Emergency Responders Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, San Jose, California, 2007 46  G   A B i g l ey a nd K  H  R o be rts   The Incident Command System: High-Reliability Organizing For Complex and Volatile Task Environments  Academy of Management Journal vol. 44, pp. 1281-1300 2001  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


Figure 10  Four graphs on the left show r 0 003uctuations during the day for the selected days Four weather graphs on the right demonstrate hourly 003uctuations in temperature pressure and wind speed for the corresponding days The following data is obtained from the database of wunderground.com 11 


B IO GRAPHY  Aleksandr Ser geyev is currently an Assistant Professor in the Electrical Engineering Technology program in the School of Technology at Michigan Technological University Dr Aleksandr Sergeyev is earned his bachelor degree in electrical engineering in Moscow University of Electronics and Automation in 1995  He obtained the Master degree in Physics from Michigan Technological University in 2004 and the PhD degree in Electrical Engineering from Michigan Technological University in 2007  Dr Aleksandr Sergeyev research interests include high energy lasers propagation through the turbulent atmosphere developing advanced control algorithms for wavefront sensing and mitigating effects of the turbulent atmosphere digital inline holography digital signal processing and laser spectroscopy He is also involved in developing new eye-tracking experimental techniques for extracting 3-D shape of the object from the movement of human eyes Michael Roggemann is a Professor of Electrical Engineering at Michigan Technological University Houghton MI He is co-author of the book Imaging Through Turbulence and has authored or co-authored over 60 journal articles and over 50 conference papers Dr Roggemann is a member of the IEEE and is a Fellow of both the Optical Society of America and SPIE The International Society for Optical Engineering He was also brie\003y af\002liated with the Boeing Corporation where he served as a senior research scientist from 2002 to 2005  and was a Technical Fellow of the Boeing Corporation Dr Roggemann was an Associate Professor of Engineering Physics at the Air Force Institute of Technology WrightPatterson AFB Ohio from 1992 to 1997  He is an honorably retired Air Force Of\002cer at the rank of Major Dr Roggemann performed his undergraduate work at Iowa University graduating in 1982 with the BSEE degree He performed graduate work at the Air Force Institute of Technology completing the MSEE degree in 1983  and the Ph.D in 1989  Dr Roggemann has been an electro-optics program manager at Wright Laboratories Wright-Patterson AFB Ohio and an imaging researcher at the Phillips Laboratory Kirtland AFB NM His present research interests include imaging and beam projection through atmospheric turbulence optical remote sensing system design and analysis and signal and image processing Casey Demars is a senior Electrical Engineering undergraduate at Michigan Technological University He has developed under the Photonic's concentration and has worked in the CISSIC group since 2008  He is currently the Vice President of MTU's student chapter of SPIE His interests include atmospheric turbulence and signal processing 12 


   13  Data Exchange Specified by Schema  Data exchanges could be XML documents or APIs   Scenario Elements Initialization  Spacecrafts: Names & Orbits      - Imaging Payloads: Names & Patterns Feature of Interests: Names, Types, Boundaries & Viewing Constraints Geostationary Relay Satellites: Names and Longitudes Ground Stations: Names & Locations Scenario Start & Stop Times Feature Coverage Request  Feature of Interest Name Spacecraft & Payload Names Figure of Merit Request Feature Coverage Response  Coverage by Area and by Percent Min, Max & Average Response Time Min, Max & Average Revisit Time Coverage by Time Interval Accessibility Chain Request  Scenario Elements Accessibility Chain Response  Accessibility Interval Start & Stop Times  SysML Model Interface Prototype  Setup System Elements Determine Accessibility Determine Feature Coverage  Interface Prototype to AGI Components   Scenario Elements Cache  AGI Components  Cache Interface  Components Interface  Data Exchange  Scenario Elements Accessibility Request / Response Feature Coverage Request / Response Figure 8. Prototype Data Exchange Between FireSat SysML Model and AGI Components The data exchange will be enhanced to meet user needs 
 


   14 The schema has been defined for the FireSat SysML and AGI Components interaction of Figure 8.  The Setup System Elements and Determine Feature Coverage capabilities have been prototyped.  The next step is to prototype all the capabilities as both API and XML document interfaces 8  C ONCLUSIONS  An SPS providing a COTS GetFeasibility operation will make it easier for Users to discover sensors that fulfill their needs.  A COTS common inte rface will provide the User with one well-known set of operations for the initial discovery of candidate sensors A final selection of sensors can be carried out using the SPS operations of the individual DPs Additionally, an SPS server c ontaining a catalog of sensors can be created to provide the Users with one-stop-shopping for the initial discovery of candidate sensors The operations being developed now are for optical and radar sensors, but are extensible to Earth observation scientific sensors The design and implementation of the Magic Draw and ParaMagic FireSat SysML model interaction with AGI Components will be refined a nd then extended to other SysML tools The FireSat SysML model interaction with AGI Components proof of concept is also intended to provide the blueprint for the design and implementation of other types of SysML modeling of space based missions R EFERENCES   Docum e nt 07-014r3 at  http://www.opengeospatial.org   M a nas B a jaj, \223SLIM A C o l l a borat i v e, M odel B a sed Systems Engineering Work space for Next-Generation Complex System\224, 2011 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings, March 5-12, 2011 B IOGRAPHY  Dave Kaslow is Director, Product Data Management at Analytical Graphics, Inc.  He has thirty-seven years of experience in both the technical and management aspects of developing ground mi ssion capabilities He is also the editor of Spacecraft Digest www.stk.com/scdigest which tracks current and future spacecraft and spacecraft missions He is co-author of \223Defining and Developing the Mission Operations System\224, \223Activity Planning\224, \223FireSat\224 and 223Spacecraft Failures and Anomalies\224 in Cost-Effective Space Mission Operations He is also the author and co-author of papers for the International Council on Systems Engineering \(INCOSE Annual International Symposiums and for the IEEE Aerospace Conference A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The author gratefully acknowledges the prototyping support of colleague Sam Gilbert  
 


Eds Amsterdam: North Holland, 1997 19]  Kiger, J.I. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in the Design of Menu-Driven Interfaces," International Journal of Man-Machine Studies \(20 20]   Miller, D.P. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in Hierarchical Computer Menus," Human Factors Society 1981, pp. 296-300 21]  Newman, W. M. and Lamming, M. G., Interactive system design, Cambridge, MA, Addison-Wesley, 1995 22]  Nielsen, J. "Usability Engineering at a Discount International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction Elsevier Science, Boston, 1989, pp. 394-401 23]  Nielsen, J. Usability Engineering, Acad. Press, 1993  24]  Nielsen, J., ?Heuristic evaluation,? in J. Nielsen and R. Mack \(eds Wiley &amp; Sons, 1994  25]  Nielsen, J., ?Usability metrics:  Tracking interface improvements,? IEEE Software, Nov 1996, pp. 12-13 26]  Nielsen J www.useit.com/papers/heuristic/heuristic_list.html, 2002 27]  Nielsen, J. and Mack, R., Usability inspection methods, John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc., 1994 28]  Niemela, M., and Saariluoma, P. "Layout Attributes and Recall," Behaviour &amp; Information Technology \(22:5 2003, pp 353-363 29]  Norman, K.L. The Psychology of Menu Selection Ablex Publishing Corporation, Norwood, NJ, 1991 30]  Norman, K.L., and Chin, J. "The Effect of Tree Structures on Search in a Hierarchical Menu Selection System," Behavior &amp; Information Technology \(7 51-65 31]  Perlman, G. http://edgarmatias.com/faq/G/G-1.html 2000 32]  Reiterer, H.,  Oppermann, R. Evaluation of User Interfaces: EVADIS II -- A Comprehensive Evaluation Approach. In Behaviour and Information Technology, 12 3 33]  Schenkman, B.N., and Jonsson, F.U. "Aesthetics and Preferences of Web Pages," Behavior &amp; Information Technology \(19:5 34]  Shackel, B., ?Usability ? context, framework definition, design and evaluation,? in Human Factors for Informatics Usability, edited by Shackel, B. and Richardson, S. J., Cambridge:  Cambridge University Press 1991, pp. 21-38 35]  Shneiderman, B., "Designing trust into online experiences,? Communications of the ACM, December 2000, pp. 57- 59  36]  Shneiderman, Ben, Designing the User Interface Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction Reading, Mass., Addison-Wesley, 1986, 1987c 37]  Somberg, B.L. "A Comparison of Rule-Based and Positionally Constant Arrangements of Computer Menu Items," CHI and GI 1987, ACM, New York, New York 1987, pp. 255-260 38]  Vredenburg, K., et. al "A Survey of User-Centered Design Practice," SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, ACM, Minneapolis, Minnesota 2002, pp. 471-478 39]  Weiss, E., and Nielsen, J. "Heuristic evaluation, a system checklist, usability analysis &amp; design," Xerox Corporation 40]  Wharton, C., et. al,  ?The cognitive walkthrough method:  A practitioner?s guide,? in Nielsen, J., Mack, R Usability Inspection Methods, John Wiley &amp; Sons, 1994 41]  Whitefield, A., Wilson, F., and Dowell, J. "A Framewokr for Human Factors Evaluation," Behavior &amp Information Technology \(10:1 


42] Yu, B.-M., and Roh, S.-Z. "The Effects of Menu Design on Information-Seeking Performance and User's Attitude on the World Wide Web," Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology \(53:11 2002, pp 923-933 43]Zaphiris, P., and Mtei, L. "Depth vs. Breadth in the Arrangement of Web Links," 1997, p. Available online http://otal.umd.edu/SHORE/bs04 44]  Zaphiris, P., Shneiderman, B., and Norman, K.L Expandable Indexes vs. Sequential Menus for Searching Heirarchies on the World Wide Web," Behavior &amp Information Technology \(21:3 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


and Improving IT Governance through the Balanced Scorecard", Information Systems Control Journal, 2 70] Van Grembergen, W., De Haes, S., and Guldentops E., "Structures, Processes and Relational Mechanisms for IT Governance" in: Van Grembergen, W. \(Ed for Information Technology Governance,  Idea Group Publishing, 2004, 1-37 71] Wagner, H.-T., A resource-based perspective on IT business alignment and firm performance - Theoretical foundation and empirical evidence, ibidem, Stuttgart, Germany, 2007 72] Wagner, H.-T. and Weitzel, T., "IT Business Alignment as Governance Tool for Firm-Internal Relationship Quality: A Longitudinal Case Study",  41th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-41 Island, Hawaii, 2008 73] Webb, P., Pollard, C., and Ridley, G., "Attempting to Define IT Governance: Wisdom or Folly?",  39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Kauai, Hawaii, 2006 74] Zahra, S.A. and George, G., "The Net-Enabled Business Innovation Cycle and the Evolution of Dynamic Capabilities", Information Systems Research, 13\(2 147-150 75] Zmud, R.W., "Building relationships throughout the corporate entity" in: Elam, J., Ginzberg, M., Keen, P., and Zmud, R.W. \(Eds mission, the framework, the transition,  1988, Washington 1988, 55-82   Appendix  Table 5. Used indicators All items have been evaluated by using a 5-point Likert scale ranging from ?strongly agree? to  strongly disagree ID Item References Executive support \(ES ES1 The IT unit is sufficiently represented in our bank  s executive board. [18 ES2 Top management actively supports interplay between business and IT Strategic Alignment \(SA SA1 I am familiar with the IT strategy. [55 SA2 The IT strategy is accurately aligned with the business strategy. [22, 54, 55, 63 SA3 The IT strategy is documented. [17, 54 Governance Mechanisms \(GM GM1 There are explicit incentives rewarding good interaction with the IT unit. [51 GM2 The back office is proactively involved into IT planning. [17, 26, 55 GM3 There is a specific organizational unit or function to improve the communication be-tween  the IT and the back office 17, 26 Operational Alignment \(OA OA1 There is mutual trust and respect between IT unit and the back office. [13, 46, 64 OA2 IT and the back office regularly consult each other. [13, 17, 19 OA3 There are meetings on a regular basis between IT and back office for identifying business process improvements 17, 26, 55  OA4 There is extensive communication between IT unit and back office. [15, 17, 26 OA5 IT employees are able to interpret business related problems and develop solutions. [13, 60  64 Process Performance \(PP PP1 The configuration of our credit process allows us to sustain a competitive advantage in the  relevant market 36 PP2 The configuration of our credit process allows us to differentiate us from the competi-tors  in the relevant market 36, 42 PP3 Compared to our competitors, the operational efficiency of our loans process is higher. [23  27 PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  


PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  5 much worse 71 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207–216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Int’l Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Int’l Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





