Evaluating Longitudinal Success of Open Source Software Projects A Social Network Perspective  Jing Wu National University of Singapore wujing@comp.nus.edu.sg  Khim Yong Goh National University of Singapore gohky@comp.nus.edu.sg   Abstract  To date, numerous open source projects are hosted on many online repositories. While some of these projects are active and thri ving, some projects are either languishing or showing no development activities at all. This phenomenon thus begs the important question of what are the influential factors 
that affect the success of open source projects. In a quest to deepen our understanding of the evolution of open source projects, this research aims to analyze the success of open source projects by using the theoretical lens of social network analysis. Based on extensive analyses of dat a collected from online repositories, we study the impact of the communication patterns of software development teams on the demand and supply outcomes of these projects, while accounting for project-specific characteristics. Using panel data analysis of data over 13 months, we find significant impacts of communication patterns on project outcomes over the long term    1. Introduction  Recent years have seen a rapid growth of open 
source software \(OSS\er since the first OSS was developed by Richard Stallman \(GNU\ the 1970 s, a multitude of open source applications have been developed, ranging from office productivity software such as StarOffice, to database and thousands of specialized scientific applications It is reported that more than 65 percent of public websites are now backed by the open-source Apache web server; 80 percent of the world s e-mail traffic is managed by Sendmail and 40% of large U.S. corporations make use of the open-source GNU Linux operating system The growing popularity of OSS has garnered 
increasing attention not only from practitioners in the industry, but also from academic scholars who are interested in examining this phenomenon in a rigorous in-depth manner. Various case studies have contributed to a better understanding of the OSS phenomenon considered the nature and the functioning of the community of developers of the Apache softwa  focused on factors determining the level of engagement in the Linux project al y zed th e s t rateg ic process by which new individuals joined the community of developers of FreeNet, a peer-to-peer network of 
information distribution. These studies shed new light on how large communities of developers arise, work and coordinate to achieve the success of an open source project. However, previous case studies are limited to large and popular projects only. While indepth examinations on such large and popular projects are crucial to better understand how communities work effectively, findings from such studies may not be representative of the OSS community in general Several large open source projects have achieved extraordinary success and are among the most prominent software used in the technology industry 
However, many open source projects have been lackluster with few or no development activities at all Many flounder at the beginning, while others survive but with little momentum behind them T h e f a il u r e  of a large number of open source projects begs the following key question: What contributes to the longterm sustainability of the OSS movement? In the other words, what are the factors, besides project-specific characteristics, that could influence the success or failure of open source projects? To deepen our understanding of OSS, it is essential for Information 
Systems \(IS\earchers to study these questions theoretically and provide insights to practitioners The open source community is characterized by the voluntary participation of software developers collaborating over the Internet with the aim to produce license-free software. The developers have been creating value through developing and spreading new knowledge and capabilities, fostering innovations, and building and testing trust in working relations, relying heavily on information and communication technologies to accomplish their tasks e development teams, to achieve their objectives and successfully complete their tasks, information must be 
effectively exchanged. Thus, communication and coordination have been found to be two major aspects that significantly affect the performance of such teams   S dev e lop m e n t i s a co m p lex s o ciotechnical activity, requiring people to interact with each other. Thus, it is interesting to study the communication patterns of open source development Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


teams to investigate the relation between coordination and communication characteristics \(i.e., the social network attributes\ OSS project teams and the evolving outcomes of open source projects While others have studied the determinants of open source success \(e.g  35 1 36 14  is  study is among the first to explore open source project success through the lens of social network perspective Through social network analysis of empirical data collected from open source projects, we study the impact of the communication patterns of open source projects on the outcomes of these projects, while accounting for project-specific characteristics. Such a novel approach thus incorporates both the supply side developers\d the demand side \(end users\ factors As we know, communication patterns may change with time and thus success or failure of OSS projects is transient. It is therefore important to examine the dynamic impacts of communication patterns on project success such that we can assess the long term sustainability of OSS projects. Thus, in this study, we observe the changes of communication pattern of each project across an extended period of 13 months, and investigate the evolving success of open source projects by looking at the dynamic impacts of communication patterns  2. Theoretical Background  2.1. Communication Pattern of Project Teams  Open source developers collaborate mainly over the Internet. The advent of information and communication technologies provides instantaneous global accessibility for the open source community Software development is a complex socio-technical activity. The developers of an open source project collaborate via interactions or communications in the form of email exchange, message boards T h e communication and interaction among individuals and groups form the network of relationships inside the project team. To better understand the impact of such communications on the success of open source projects, we employ the social network analysis \(SNA method, which helps to identify the prominent patterns in such networks, trace the flow of information \(and other resources\d discover potential relationships between the social structure and the final product, i.e the software system [19    SNA aims to understand the relationships between people, groups, organizations, and other types of social entities [12 3 9  4 1  b y d e scrip tio n  v i s u alizatio n   and statistical modeling. It models social relationships in terms of nodes and ties. Nodes represent the individual actors or groups within the network, and ties or links show interactions or exchange of information flows between the nodes. In the context of open source projects, nodes are the developers, and ties are the interactions or communications between developers. In the MIS field, previous literature which focused on OSS research has shown that social networks operate on many levels and play a critical role in determining the way of solving problems, running organizations and the degree to which individuals achieve their goals    26 42  Social structure, a term frequently used in social theory, refers to entities or groups in definite relation to each other, to relatively enduring patterns of behavior and relationship within social systems T h e s o cial structure of an open source development team describes how people interact, behave and organize in the community. Investigating social structure is a useful way to understand team practice such as coordination, control socialization, continuity and learning  6 terv ie w e d a m e m b er of t h e  Apache Foundation s incubator team at ApacheCon 2003. The study of social structure helps to identify the reasons for such concerns since it provides an assessment measure of finding the crucial members as well as their importance with regard to the project The communication pattern describes the structure of interactions during communication. It can be characterized by several attributes. According to social network theory, the centrality and density of a group are related to its efficiency of problem solving perception of leadership and the personal satisfaction of participants h e con cepts of dens it y an d  centrality refer to different aspects of the overall compactness of the network s it y des c ribe s the general level of cohesion in the network while centrality describes the extent to which this cohesion is organized around particular focal points. Centrality and density, therefore, are important complementary measures of the communication pattern Density measures how closely a network is connected, which in turn determines the readiness of a group in response to changes in processes and outcomes. It is defined as the percentage of ties that exist in a network out of all possible ties Centrality can be defined on an individual or overall level for a network. The centrality of an individual node refers to the number of direct links to other nodes in a network. If we define the link between nodes as communications, a person with a high centrality represents a major channel of information exchange. In some sense he is a focal point of communication, at least with respect to others who has contact with him. At the opposite extreme is a point of low centrality degree. The occupant of such a position is likely to be seen as peripheral. His position isolates Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


him from direct involvement with most of the others in the network and cuts him off from active participation in major communication processes. Thus, the centrality measure indicates whether a group member is in the thick of things   In order to track th e  influence of the project leader\(s\e examine the individual centrality measure of project leader\(s\ince the centrality of the leader\(s\ indicates the stature and influence of the leader\(s\ the project team One can also define the centrality of a network as a whole. Project centrality, centrality of an entire project team, captures the inequality of the developers  contributions to the project: high score of project centrality implies that the power of individual developers varies rather substantially, and overall positional advantages are rather unequally distributed in this network. Social network theory ugg es t s  that the speed and efficiency of a network in solving problems are related to the inequality of the developers contributions to the project  2.2. Success of Open Source Projects  Unlike traditional firm-driven endeavors, open source projects are not always driven by direct profit motives  T h e s u ccess i n dicators of commercial software such as market share, on time and on budget delivery cannot be readily applied in the OSS setting. In the OSS environment, there is usually no pre-determined deadline, a priori budget, or a set of specifications d m a rk et s h are of OS S is  difficult to assess. Thus, a set of different indicators are necessary to define the success of open source projects Success is a subjective concept and therefore it is not always clear on how to define success i n e d  successful OSS projects as those characterized by a continuing process of volunteer developers fixing bugs adding features and releasing software often and early Since a large number of OSS projects are abandoned by their developers, it is critical to attract contributors on an on-going basis to keep the project sustaina 4 plore d s u ccess  m e asu r es i n the  IS literature and suggested a portfolio of success measures, including measures of the development process. Subsequently an al y zed f o u r  s u cce s s measurements by using data from SourceForge.net and suggested that a project that attracts developers maintains a high level of activity, fixes bugs and has many users downloads can described as successful There are some other scholars advocating different success measurements: number of developers development stages, output per contributor, project popularity, user interest, number of CVS  commits 1  number of downloads  9 35 36 14   In our study, we consider success from both the supply side \(developers\d the demand side \(end users\. Since open source development relies on voluntary input, attracting and motivating contributors are key factors for its success. In other words development activity is a key indicator of project success: high development activity shows that the developers in the project continuously contribute to the project; the project will evolve until it has no development activity at all. On the demand side project popularity is a key measure of the project s success: high popularity shows that there are many users using or are interested in using the open source software. On the other hand, an OSS project will cease to exist or progress if there is no demand or if no one makes use of the end product for an extended period  3. Research Model  We propose hypotheses with regard to how communication patterns may affect the success of open source projects. We define constructs that capture the communication pattern of an open source project: 1 project centrality, which measures the inequality of the developers contributions in the project, and 2\ project density, which measures the closeness of a network and its readiness to respond to changes, and 3 leadership centrality, which measures the influence of the project leader\(s\e use the level of development activity and project popularity to measure the degree of success from the supply and demand side respectively   Figure 1. Research Model    1  Concurrent Versions System \(CVS\ is a program that lets a code developer save and retrieve different development versions of source code. It also lets a team of developers share control of different versions of files in a common repository of files. This kind of program is sometimes known as a version control system  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


 3.1. Communication Pattern & Project Success  Project centrality measures the difference or inequality of contributions among developers, i.e., it examines whether there is an outstanding group of contributors in the project. Past research in social networks has shown that centrality is an important measure of group performanc  T h e in v e stig at ion of project centrality can shed light on whether the inequality of the developers contributions affects the success of the project. When the project centrality is high, the power of individual developers varies rather substantially. Social network theory suggests that networks with high centrality have the advantage of speedy and flexible information diffusion within the network [7  I n a ne t w o r k w i t h hi g h c e n t r a l i t y  sc o r e   there are certain developers who have access to more resources of the network than others in the network These core developers are responsible for exchanging information and allocating resources among the team members. In most cases, these core developers are the most capable developers in the team. They filter out less meaningful messages while distributing the most useful information and allocate resources to its best usage. This increases the efficiency and quality of the communication among the developers and enhances the team members access to resources and information. Therefore, the development process, which involves collaborative tasks such as debugging, document writing, upgrading, patching, and consulting, can be better handled with better resource allocation and higher quality delivery. In the strategic management literature, good coordination within development teams \(which helps to attract users resources, and collaborators\ is considered as a key determinant of software development success Since higher project centrality is associated with better organization and more efficient information exchange we propose that a more centralized project is likely to achieve higher development activities Hypothesis 1: Project centrality will positively affect the level of project development activities  In the strategic management literature, wellbalanced development teams, who are able to attract users, resources and collaborators, are considered as a key determinant of the software project development success. In the high centralization project, the power of individual developers varies rather substantially. The higher the project centralization measure, it is more likely that there are more linkages between the core developers and the other contributors. Thus, in the high centralization projects, the communications are largely dependent on the core developers. Moreover, as mentioned previously, core developers take charge of exchanging most information or resource among the project team members. In this way, the core developers can disseminate useful information and helpful resources, while discarding the less meaningful or useful messages. This thus increases the efficiency and quality of the communication among the developers, in turn enhancing the quality of software development maintenance and support. Open source users especially new users, usually put more emphasis on the continual support and maintenance provided by the project teams. Consistent, periodic maintenance and support of open source projects by developers typically generate positive word of mouth which enhances the reputation of such projects. Given the increased likelihood of positive word of mouth and reputation in the OSS community, it is thus likely that the demand popularity of such projects increase over time Therefore, we propose that highly centralized OSS projects will be more likely to attract end users, i.e more likely to increase the popularity of such projects Hypothesis 2: Project centrality will positively affect the level of project popularity  In a network of software developers, a higher density indicates a greater degree of interaction among the members and thus closer collaboration among members. However, a higher project density makes the dissemination of knowledge more time-consuming, as information and knowledge needs to travel through the extended hierarchies of the project team. An example of a three-developer project illustrates this problem suppose developer A has communications with B, B with C, and C with A, then developer C may obtain the same information from both A and B. In projects with many developers, there may be more occurrences of repeated information exchange. The efficiency of the communication is therefore substantially reduced in projects with high density. Previous literature indicates that effective communications among the team members is a key factor to project success  open source development teams, to achieve the objectives and to successfully complete their development tasks, information must be effectively exchange T h u s  w e propos e th at t h e den s it y o f a  project will negatively affect the level of development activities of a project Hypothesis 3: Project density will negatively affect the level of project development activities  As mentioned in the above, a higher project density makes the dissemination of knowledge more timeconsuming, as information and knowledge needs to travel through the extended hierarchies of the project team. In projects with many developers, there may be more occurrences of repeated information exchange The efficiency and quality of communication is therefore substantially reduced in projects with high Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


density. Consequently, from the perspective of OSS end users, software technical support and maintenance may be negatively impacted such that the frequency of technical updates or bug fixes is delayed, or that the outcome quality of maintenance and support is less than optimal. These negative consequences of high network density in project teams in turn would have detrimental impacts on the reputation and eventual popularity of projects among end users. Thus, we propose that the density of a project will negatively affect the level of project popularity Hypothesis 4: Project density will negatively affect the level of project popularity  A project manager plays the key role of coordinating overall project development activity. As  t ed ou t, th e proj ect m a n a g e r s h o u ld carr y o u t  some critical tasks such as attracting new programmers, ensuring an efficient division of the project into modules, allowing contributors to perform their tasks independently from the rest of the contributors, and managing conflicting views and approaches among participants. In a project with higher leadership centrality, the manager has higher stature and more influence on the project team. In high manager centrality projects, the managers can attract and communicate with many developers, and those developers may actively exchange information with their managers because of the manager s stature and influence. Under such communication structures developers derive the majority of necessary information and resources from the managers, and can perform their tasks independently from the other developers. The project manager thus serves as a pivotal conduit for information communication among the project team. Therefore, we propose that project leadership centrality will positively influence the level of development activity of the project Hypothesis 5: Project leadership centrality will positively affect the level of project development activities  However, conventional wisdom suggests that heavy reliance on a single developer-manager threatens the survival of the open source projects. This is because a developer-manager usually simultaneously participates in more than one open source projects or is affiliated to other commercial projects. Once he \(or she\es interest in the current focal project or becomes engaged in other projects, the focal project will lose its central emphasis or focus, leading to delayed responses to end users or other developers requests. This situation would largely decrease the information quality and level of team coordination, which in turn reduces the efficiency and productivity of the whole development team. Thus, there are the potential risks associated with a project with high leadership centrality. Therefore, we propose that a leader s heightened participation in other projects will yield a negative effect on project development activities for project teams with high leadership centrality Hypothesis 6: Leader s heightened participations in other projects will yiel d a negative effect on project development activities for projects with high leadership centrality  In a project with higher leadership centrality, the manager has higher stature and more influence in the project team. Therefore, these managers are able to attract high capability developers and communicate with many developers effectively and efficiently leading to developers actively exchanging information with their managers. Consequently, with the project manager serving as a pivotal conduit for effective information communication among the project team, it is more likely that outcome of OSS development turns out to be positive in terms of software release quality and maintenance support frequencies. These outcomes would in turn positively impact on the demand popularity of the project among OSS end users Therefore, we propose that project leadership centrality will positively influence the level of project popularity Hypothesis 7: Project leadership centrality will positively affect the level of project popularity  Since the open source developers \(including managers\ usually simultaneously participate in more than one projects or are affiliated to other commercial projects, there are effort and time constraints on part of the individual developers s fixed amount of resources and effort. Thus, as many anecdotal evidence have indicated, heavily reliance on a single developermanager threatens the survival of the open source projects. This may largely deter the users who want to seek continual consistent support and maintenance from OSS project teams. Therefore, we propose that a leader s heightened participations in other projects will yield a negative effect on project popularity for projects with high leadership centrality Hypothesis 8: Leader s heightened participations in other projects will yiel d a negative effect on project popularity for projects with high leadership centrality  3.2. Project Characteristics and Success  Apart from communication pattern, project-specific factors may also influence the success of OSS projects Project characteristics considered in this study include type of licenses, project complexity, programming language, project age, and target audience 25 sugge ste d tha t t h e r e str i c tive n e s s o f lic e n se  protects the developers from being exploited by the commercial software firms by limiting the privatization of their intellectual products. Commercialization of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


open source projects is undesirable because it can reduce the visibility of the developer s contribution and reputation. Therefore, commercialization may drive away developers. Thus, we propose the restrictiveness of licenses may play a positive role on the level of OSS development activities. In addition, more complex projects with more features usually require more development activities such as feature development and patching. Thus, we expect that a more complex project is likely to achieve a higher level of development activities Hypothesis 9A: A project with a restrictive license will be likely to achieve a higher level of development activities Hypothesis 9B: A more complex project will be likely to achieve a higher level of development activities  From the end users perspective, software written in more popular programming languages may be more popular among end users, since more people can modify \(or customize\he open source software. In addition, the popularity of an OSS project is likely to increase with a longer history of existence, because the longer the project has been developed and distributed in the open source community, the more users can find and adopt the OSS software. Finally, some open source projects are specifically developed for particular user groups. Apparently, software targeted at the general end users may appeal to more users, and thus leading to increased project popularity Hypothesis 10A: A project written in a popular programming language will be likely to achieve a higher level of popularity Hypothesis 10B: A project with a longer time history will be likely to achieve a higher level of popularity Hypothesis 10C: A project targeting at end users will be likely to achieve a higher level of popularity  4. Research Method   The objective of this study is to investigate the longitudinal impacts of communication patterns of open source teams on project success. We collect data of various OSS projects over an extended period of 13 months and utilize cross-sectional time-series panel data analysis methods   4.1. Project Selection   As with most empirical studies on open source projects, the data is collected from SourceForge.net which is the world's largest online repository of open source applications. At the start of our data collection in November 2006\ourceForge.net hosted 133,029 open source projects on a wide variety of areas, and had 1,425,354 registered developers. SourceForge.net also provides useful tools to control and manage open source development. It offers a variety of services including hosting, mailing lists, bug tracking, patch tracking, support request tracking, feature request tracking, message boards, file archiving, and other project management tools. SourceForge.net provides a large sampling population of open source projects with extensive details, and is the best site to collect data on OSS projects development activities and attributes In order to investigate the communication patterns of the project teams, we observe and analyze the developers interactions through bug, patch, support request, and feature request \(BPSF\ing systems hosted on SourceForge.net. These tracking systems enable users and developers to report and discuss BPSF.  Each report includes basic information about the BPSF as well as their correspondences that deal with bug fixing, patches updating, support and feature requests responding in time sequence We elaborate the procedures for collecting data on the pattern of communication. First, on project s summary page, the links of bugs, patches, feature requests or support requests systems are listed. Second by clicking the link \(e.g. bugs\we see the list of bugs Third, checking the details of each bug, we can find who submitted the bug and who responded to this bug We define that the submitter and respondents have the interaction, which will be recorded in the sociomatrix Each sociomatrix contains interaction information of each project per month. A sociomatrix is a standard data representation for a network analysis T h e sociomatrix has a row and a column for each individual, and the cells of the matrix count the number of interactions from one individual to another. It can be constructed by using the popular social network analysis tool of Ucinet 6.0 Not all projects on SourceForge.net are suitable for our study. Three criteria are adopted to select useful projects: projects are selected from top 7000 ranked projects; projects have at least three developers; and there are enough interactions to ensure that each sociomatrix is equal to or larger than 3◊3 matrix. We choose projects with at least three developers because we are interested in team communications, instead of individual basis or dyadic interactions, which are not suitable for analyzing communication patterns Although many projects have more than three developers, yet some projects do not make use of the SourceForge s BPSF tracking system, which leaves us impossible to track the communications; some projects do not have enough bugs, or patches, or support requests, or feature requests to establish a non-null socio-matrix. We select only the top-ranked 7000 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


projects because in top 1000 projects, ninety projects are useful; from top 1000 to top 2000, twenty-one projects are useful; from top 2000 to top 4000, ten projects are useful; from top 4000 to top 7000, only five projects are useful. Thus, we believe that there are few useful projects after the top-ranked 7000 projects In top ranked 7000 projects, 6815 projects were examined because the remaining 185 projects were not ranked by the website. There were 3069 projects with only one developer; there were 948 projects with two developers; 378 projects did not have \(bug, patch support or feature request\ tracking systems on SourceForge.net; 2294 projects did not have enough interactions. By excluding the unsuitable projects, the final sample was 126 projects. \(The number of developers of these 126 projects ranges from 3 to 149 In order to analyze the dynamic impacts of communication patterns on project success, we monitor each project over an extended period. Starting from 01 November 2006, we captured communication records BPSF reports\ each project every month until 30 November 2007. We thus obtained data on 126 open source projects in 13 months. The total number of observations in our data set is thus 1638  4.2. Project-Level Measures   Projects success is measured from both the supply side and demand side. For the supply side development activity is calculated as the average number of total tracks and file releases. Number of total tracks includes sum of bugs, patches, support and feature requests. For the demand side, popularity is measured by the formula number of web hits * \(1 subscription in which subscription is measured by level of accepted donations of each project, and hits  are measured by the number of web traffic visitations Project centrality can be measured by project degree centrality and betweenness centrality. Project degree centrality describes the inequality or variance of developers contribution in the network h i gh score on project degree centrality implies that the power of individual developers varies rather substantially, and this means that, overall, positional advantages are rather unequally distributed in this project. Project betweenness centrality measures the inequality of developers ability of information control It can also be interpreted as measuring the degree of independence from others in the project. Project density measures the readiness of the group to respond to changes. It is defined as the percentage of ties that exist in a network out of all possible ties. A density of 1 implies that every actor is connected to every other actor. A density of 0 implies that no actor knows any other actor. Leadership centrality indicates the stature and influence of the project leader, which can be measured by centrality of the project administrator, or average centrality of the project administrators if there is more than one administrator. In order to moderate the effect of the leadership centrality, we include the moderating variable of the extent of leader s participations in other projects. It is defined as the average number of projects that project administrators participate simultaneously. We import interaction data from SourceForge s BPSF tracking systems to create a sociomatrix for each project per month. By analyzing each socio-matrix through the popular social network software Ucinet 6.0, we can obtain the data of project centrality, density and leadership centrality There are several project-specific factors that may also influence the success of the project. We measure the types of licenses according to license categories classified by  v alu e o f 1 in dicates a res t ricti v e  license; 0 indicates a nonrestrictive license. Project complexity is measured by the number of software packages. Project age is defined as the months between the data collection date and the project registration date. In addition, a dummy variable is included to control for whether the project uses C/C++, which is one of the largest and most popular programming language categories on SourceForge.net. Finally, a dummy variable is employed to indicate whether the project is targeted at general end users  5. Data Analysis and Results   The average project centrality of our sample projects is 49.43% and ranges from 0 to 100%. The average density is 22.63% and ranges from 0 to 100 The average leadership centrality is 50.15% and ranges from 0 to 100%. The descriptive statistics of all variables is shown in Table 1  Mean Std. Dev Min Max Activity 26.627 34.408 0 358 Log-Activity 1.145 0.532 0.301 2.554 Popularit y 1 6 7 8 x1 0 6 117x1 0 6 0 14 80 x1 0 6 Log-Popularity 4.97 1.66 0 9.17 Project Centrality 49.434 0.307 0 100 Log-Project Centrality 1.47 0.629 0 2 Project Density 22.628 0.18 0 100 Log-Project Density 1.16 0.51 0 2 Leadership Centrality 50.149 0.331 0 100 Log-Leadership Centrality 1.419 0.704 0 2.301 Participation 3.116 2.481 1 15 Complexity 4.09 3.7 1 22 Restrictive Licence 0.746 0.436 0 1 Project Age 55.132 25.482 9.1 95.467 Target Audience: End user 0.611 0.488 0 1 Lan g ua g e: C/C 0.61 0.49 0 1     Table 1. Descriptive Statistics of Variables   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


Figure 2. Communication Structure of Project YUI_Library   Project Centrality   Project Density  Figure 3. Centrality and Density Measures of Project çYUI_Library   We measure the success of OSS projects from both the supply and demand side. It is widely acknowledged that the supply and demand of goods are endogenous and would influence each other simultaneously over time. To account for the endogeneity issue, we estimate the parameters of our research model by using the simultaneous equation modeling and estimation approach. We consider three model estimation 2 Weighted Two-Stage Least Squares \(WTSLS\d \(3 Generalized Method of Moments \(GMM\Such estimation techniques account for the endogeneity of the demand and supply factors and thus minimize the bias in the parameters of the proposed model The proposed empirical model of this study is Activity 1  Popularity 2  Project_Centrality 3  Project_Density 4  Leader_Centrality 5  Participation 6  Leader_Centrality*Participation  7  Complexity 8  Licence   1 Popularity 1  Activity 2  Project_Centrality 3  Project_Density 4  Leader_Centrality 5  Participation 6  Leader_Centrality*Participation  7  Age 8  Language 9  TargetAudience 2 By studying the histograms of dependent variables development activity and popularity\trality and density measures, it appeared that these variables were skewed to the left and not normally distributed Accordingly, we use the logarithmic transformations of these variables in our empirical estimations To account for the potential issue of endogeneity between the dependent variables and independent variables, we used lagged independent variables. To obtain robust reliable results, we compare estimation results of different lags of the independent variables lag=2, lag=1, lag=0, lag=-1 and lag=-2\As expected we found that using a 1-month lag \(i.e., lag=-1\n the independent variables gives the best set of model estimation results in terms of model fit, coefficient signs and statistical significances. Table 2 documents the model estimation results using 2 different estimation methods using a 1-month lag structure  Coefficient Std Error Coefficient Std. Error Log-Popularity 0.033 0.018 0.030 0.018 Log-Project Centrality 0.500 0.039 0.503 0.039 Lo g Pro j ect Densit y 0.398 0.044 0.403 0.044 Log-Leadership Centrality 0.464 0.066 0.466 0.066 Partici p ation 0.163 0.026 0.163 0.026 Log-Leadership Centra lit y Partici p ation 0.137 0.021 0.137 0.021 Com p lexit y 0.030 0.004 0.030 0.004 Restrictive License 0.033 0.031 0.055 0.032 R 2 0.021 R 2 0.021 Log Activity 0.39 0.445 0.343 0.445 Log-Project Centrality 0.688 0.276 0.712 0.276 Log-Project Density 0.603 0.256 0.637 0.256 Lo g Leadershi p Centralit y 1.914 0.353 2.019 0.353 Participation 0.777 0.128 0.820 0.128 Log-Leadership Centra lit y Partici p ation 0.641 0.105 0.676 0.105 Project Age 0.029 0.002 0.029 0.002 Lan g ua g e: C/C 0.119 0.135 0.057 0.138 Target Audience: End user 0.338 0.115 0.425 0.118 R 2 0.305 R 2 0.362 Note significance: 10% *; 5% **; 0.01 3SLS WTSLS    Table 2. Regression Results \(3SLS, WTSLS   Based on the estimation results, we find significant effects of communication patterns on our project success measures. H1 proposes that project centrality will positively affect the level of project development activities. When project centrality is measured by degree centrality, the model shows significant positive effect of degree centrality on development activity When project centrality is measured by betweenness centrality, the model also shows significant positive effect of project betweenness centrality on development activity. Thus, H1 is supported H2 proposes that project centrality will positively affect the level of project popularity. When project centrality is measured by degree centrality, the model shows significant positive effect of degree centrality on project popularity. When project centrality is measured by betweenness centrality, the model also shows significant positive effect of betweenness centrality on project popularity. Hence, H2 is also supported  Dec 2006              Feb 2007  May 2007              Aug 2007 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


The hypotheses test results from H1 and H2 suggest that the centrality of OSS project teams play an important role in the evolving success of the projects Centralized projects are good for increasing development activity and attracting end users. The managers of OSS projects need to control the communication centrality within OSS projects H3 proposes that project density will negatively affect the level of project development activities. The model shows significant negative effect of project density on development activity. H3 is supported H4 suggests that project density will negatively affect the level of project popularity. The model shows significant negative effect of project density on project popularity. Thus, H4 is supported H5 proposes that project leadership centrality will positively affect the level of project development activities. H6 proposes that leader s participations in other projects will yield a negative effect on project development activities for the projects with higher leadership centrality. Both H5 and H6 are supported H7 proposes that project leadership centrality will positively affect the level of project popularity. H8 proposes that leader s participations in other projects will yield a negative effect on project popularity for the projects with higher leadership centrality. The estimation results also support both H7 and H8 The hypotheses test results from H5 to H8 suggest that leadership centrality is important for the OSS projects. Leaders in the project play a crucial role in improving the performance of the project teams However, leaders may participate in several projects simultaneously, which will disperse the effort of leaders in a single project Hypothesis 9 \(A, B\es the relationships between project-specific characteristics and project development activities. The results from the model estimation show the significant effect of project complexity on the level of development activities. A restrictive type of license has a significant positive effect on the level of development activities only when adopting WTSLS estimation method Hypothesis 10 \(A, B, C\ proposes the relationships between project-specific characteristics and project popularity. The results from the model estimation show significant effects of project age and end-user target audience, but an insignificant effect of popular C/C programming language, on project popularity  6. Summary and Conclusion   The main purpose of this study is to investigate the long term effects of communication pattern on the success of OSS projects. Results, shown in Table 2 are generally supportive of the hypotheses posited in this paper. By observing changes in communication patterns over time, we find significant impacts of communication patterns on the outcome of the project The findings of our research has implications for project managers and developers in open source environments, as well as for managers of commercial software firms, such as Microsoft and IBM, which are actively participating in open source projects. The significant effects of project centrality on project development activity and popularity are examined and uncovered by our research model. In a centralized network, some core members contribute more to the project. Such core-periphery structures can potentially enhance the speed and flexibility with which information diffuses within a group [7   T hus  centralized projects will be with higher communication efficiency and thereby related to better performance Project density measures the readiness of the group to respond to changes, and how close a network is to realize its potential. In high-density projects information dissemination is impeded, which negatively affects communication efficiency. Thus balancing project centrality and density is an important task for project managers to ensure the success of OSS projects in a competitive environment Leadership centrality measures the influence of managers on the projects. In high manager centrality projects, managers attract and communicate with many developers, and those developers may actively exchange information with their managers because of manager s high stature and influence. However, heavy reliance on a single developer-manager threatens the survival of the open source projects. There is a negative impact of leader s simultaneous participations in other projects on development activity and popularity of high leadership centrality projects From a theoretical standpoint, we apply social network theory into the information systems domain in particular, into the study of success of OSS projects Although previous works have been conducted on various IS phenomenon from a social network perspective, we are among the first to apply the social network theory with encouraging success to the OSS development realm. We thus motivate other IS researchers to pursue this area of research  7. References  1 C o l azo J  A F a n g  Y N e u f e l d  D   Development success in open source software projects: exploring the impact of copylefted licenses in Proceedings of the 11th Americas Conference on Information Systems, USA, 2005 2 Com i no S  Ma nent i  F M. a n d Pa r i s i M. L  From planning to mature: on the determinants of open source take off  Working Papers 0517, Department of Economics, University of Trento, Italia, 2005 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


3 Cr ows t on K  A coordination theory approach to organizational process design Organization Science \(8:2 1997, pp. 157 175 4 Cr ows t on K  Anna b i  H a nd Howi s on J   Defining open source software project success in Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Information Systems, USA, 2003 5 Cr owst on K  Anna b i  H  H o wi s on J   a nd Ma sa no C  Towards a portfolio of FLOSS project success measures in Proceedings of the Open Source Workshop of the International Conference on Software Engineering, May 2004 6 Cr ows t on K. a nd Howi s on J The social structure of free and open source software development First Monday \(10:2 2005 7 Cumm i ngs  J  a nd Cr os s  R  Structural properties of work groups and their consequences for performance Social Networks \(25:3\, 2003, pp. 197-210 8 F e lle r, J. an d  F itzg e ra ld B A framework for understanding the open source software development paradigm in Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Information Systems, USA, 2000 9 Fer s ht m a n C a nd Ga nda l  N The determinants of output per contributor in open source projects: an empirical examination CEPR Paper, No. 4329, March 2004  Fr eem a n  L C  Centrality in social networks: conceptual clarification Social Networks \(1:3\, 1979, pp. 215-239  Fr eem a n  L C  Roeder D  a nd Mul hol l a nd R R Centrality in social networks II: experimental results Social Networks \(2:2\, 1980, pp. 119-141  Gra novet t e r  M  The strength of Weak Ties American Journal of Sociology \(78:6\, 1973, pp. 1360-1380 13 G r e e n e  H  W. E c o n o m e tric A n aly sis, Pre n ti ce H a ll U ppe r  Saddle River, New Jersey, United State, 2003 14 G r e w a l R  L ilie n  G  L  an d M a ll a p r a g a d a G   Location location, location: how network embeddedness affects project success in open source systems Management Science \(52:7 2006, pp. 1043-1056  Ha nnem a n  R A  a nd M  Ri ddl e  Int r o d u c t i on t o s o c i a l  network methods, University of California, Riverside, United State, 2005 \(published in digital form at http://faculty.ucr.edu/~hanneman  Her t el  G  Ni edner  S  a n d Her r m a nn  S  Motivation of software developers in open source projects: and internet-based survey of contributors to the Linux kernel Research Policy 32:7\, 2003, pp. 1159-1177  Hi pp el  E V  a nd Kr ogh G  V  Open source software and the private-collective innovation model: special issues for organization science Organization Science \(14:2\, 2003, pp 209-225 18 Jo h a n sso n  C  D ittri c h  Y  an d Juu s tila A   Software engineering across boundaries: student project in distributed collaboration IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication \(42:4\, 1999, pp. 286-296  Ki da ne Y H   a nd Gl oor  P  A  Correlating temporal communication patterns of the Eclipse open source community with performance and creativity Computational Mathematical Organization Theory \(13:1\, 2007, pp. 17-27  Kr ogh G V  Sp a e t h  S  a nd La k h a n i  K R  Community joining, and specialization in open source software innovation a case study Research Policy \(32:7\, 2003, pp. 1217 1241  Lak ha ni  K R a nd v o n Hi p p e l  E  How open source software works free user-to-user assistance Research Policy \(32:6\, 2003, pp. 923 943  Lak h a n i  K R  a nd W o l f  R G   Why hackers do what they do: Understanding motivation effort in free/open source software projects Working Paper 4425-03, MIT Sloan School of Management, Cambridge, MA, 2003 23 L e av itt, I I  J Some effects of communication patterns on group performance Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, 1951, \(46\pp. 38-50  Ler n er   J  a nd Ti r o l e J   Some simple economics of open source Journal of Industrial Economics \(50:2\, 2002, pp. 197234  Ler ner  J  a nd Ti r o l e  J   The scope of open source licensing Journal of Law, Economics and Organization \(21:1 2005, pp. 20-56  M a dey  G  Fr eeh V  a nd T y na n R 2 002   The open source software development phenomenon: an analysis based on social network theory in Proceedings of the 8th Americas Conference on Information Systems, USA, 2002 27 M a r k u s M  L  M a n v ille B a n d A g re s, C  E   What makes a virtual organization work Sloan Management Review 42:1\, 2000, pp. 13 26  M a z n ev s k i  M a nd Chudob a  K  Bridging space over time global virtual team dynamics and effectiveness Organization Science \(11:5\, 2001, pp. 473-492  Mul l e n B   J ohns on C a nd Sa l a s  E   Effects of communication network structure: Components of positional centrality Social Networks \(13:2\, 1991, pp. 169-186 30 Po w e ll A Pi cco l i   G  an d  Iv es, B Virtual teams: a review of current literature and direction for future research The Data base for Advances in Information Systems \(35:1\, 2004, pp. 636  Ra ym on d E S  The cathedral and the bazaar First Monday \(3:3\ 1998 32 S a w y e r, S   Software development teams  Communications of ACM \(47:12\, 2004, pp. 95-99 33 S c ac ch i, W   Understanding the requirements for developing open source software systems IEE Proceedings Software \(149:1\, 2002, pp. 24 39  Sc ot t J ohn  e ds    Soc i a l Net w or k s  Cri t i c a l Conc ep t s i n  Sociology, London, New York, Routledge, 2002  Sen  Open source software development projects determinants of project popularity Working paper 0510003 Econometrics from EconWPA, 2005  St ewa r t  K J   Amm e t e r  A  P    a nd Ma r u p i ng L M Impacts of license choice and organizational sponsorship on user interest and development activity in open source software projects Information Systems Research \(17:2\, 2006, pp. 126144  Suc h a n  J  a nd Ha y z a k G  The communication characteristics of virtual teams: a case study IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication \(44:3\, 2001, pp 174-186  Thom a s a nd Hunt   Open Source Ecosystems IEEE Software \(21:4\, 2004, pp. 89-91  W a s s e r m a n  S a nd Fa us t  K  e ds    Soc i a l Net w or k  Analysis, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1994   W e b e r S   e ds   The Suc c e s s of Op en Sour c e  Ha r v a r d University Press, Cambridge, 2004  W e l l m a n  B   a nd B e r k owi t z   S D  e ds    Soc i a l St r u c t ur es  A Network Approach, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge 1998  Xu J  Ga o Y Chr i s t l e y  S  a nd Ma de y  G  A topological analysis of the open source software development community  in Proceedings of 38th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, USA, 2005  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


  11  Figure 16 \226 The loss of spat ial resolution for errors in p    The spatial distribution of th e reconstructed images is illustrated in Figure 17 for p 0.5\260 and 400nm, 425nm and 450nm As expected, the larger dispersion at the shorter wavelengths will cause a larger shif t error.  In fact, as shown in Fig. 17 the error radius can become so large that we again see donuts as point response functions in the reconstruction Final Comments Specific systematic sources of error have been presented in this section independently Obviously it is a combination these errors that will propaga te through the transform to give the final result in terms of resolution and displacement in the reconstructed hyperspectral data set.  The contribution of each systematic error source in terms of the derived r   p  or  x\222 y\222 representation can be used to create an error kernel for each given in Equations 10 and 11 multiplied in series in Fourier space or convolved in series in the spatial domain to evaluate the cumulative effect  3  C OMPARISON TO M EASUREMENTS  The effect and sensitivity of th e selected systematic errors have been shown given the mathematical models for projection and reconstruction.  Data taken from the AFIT CTI instrument will be examined to determine how well the model is capturing the modeled impact of the systematic error with controlled in strumental inaccuracies Data Collection and Analysis An effective point source will be the target for the system and is represented by a 300 m pinhole at the object plane illuminated by a combination of an Hg pen lamp and red laser pointer.  This provid es 5 clear lines at 404.7nm 435.8nm, 546nm, 577.5nm, and 635nm 5 with the first four being from the pen lamp.   Care is taken here to not suggest that this is a true validation of the model, as it is impossible to completely isolate the effect of a single source of error Furthermore, the instrument was not designed with the exact measurement of quan tities such as detector tilt or prism alignment in mind, so these qu antities have to be measured indirectly. An attempt is made to make the particular error in question gross enough to be the overwhelming contributor and variation du e to possible inaccuracy in measurement is included in the model For each instance of induced systematic error in the instrument, projections will be taken at p 0\260-345 1 5 260 increments to provide a total of 23 projections.  This data will not be reconstructed usin g the SAA algorithm as that will serve to compound the contribution of unaccounted error.  Instead, a direct comparison to the derived r   p  will be made in each case.  In assessing the model vs performance, trends in this da ta will be consid ered in favor of absolute difference.  The measurements made address effect of detector tilt and di stance error, accuracy of the dependence of p   on I and error from prism misalignment.  For the this co llected data, a correction will be made to better calibrate the system to the actual p   to avoid the spectral shift in the data Variation in Detector Array Tilt and Distance To measure the affect that til t has on the collected data, the PIMAX camera was slightly ro tated from its position to create an angle between the detector array and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Figure 6.  Because the camera was rotated about its mount point, which is displaced from detector by 70 mm, the rotation angle also  5 The 577.5 line is the average of the Hg doublet that appears here and not clearly resolved by the instrument nm Spatial Res. \(pixels 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 p = 0.10\260 p = 0.25\260 p = 0.50\260  Figure 17 \226 The 400 nm, 425 nm, and 450 nm spatial functions for p 0.5\260.  With greater dispersion, the error most affects the shorter waveleng ths as indicated in Figure 16  


  12 moves the array toward L3 providing some amount of variable d across the array.  Swiveling the camera also rotates the array away from th e image plane, so there is a hard limit on the  that can be imparted before the spectrum is off of the array  The camera is turned 4\260 in the +x-direction x 4\260\nd tilted upward y 2\260\.  The camera was moved toward L 3  by 2mm d 2mm corporating the variable distance imparted by the camera sw ivel.  It is estimated that the tilt angle of the camera can be measured to +/- 0.25\260 and that the error in from both components\within 0.5mm.  These measurement er ror estimations will be used in the model to determine a maximum and minimum range of model results.  Equation 13 will be used to calculate r   p  the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle.  For the 404.7nm source, the image was projected off of the array at p 140\260 - 200\260 thus the gap in data.  The results are shown in Figs. 18-22   Figure 18 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 19\226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 20 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 21 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 22 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 635nm spectral line   The data imply that the overall mean value of r   p  is being captured which represents the contribution of The shapes of the curves appear to match somewhat for the 404nm and 435nm cases, but the correlation for the other three wavelengths is not as cl ose.  For these wavelengths the variation in r   p  as a function of p is very small possibly due to other uncontrolled error.  Also, for these and all spatial location measurements, there is inherent quantization error in determinin g the center of the Gaussian fit function due to the phasing of the samples on the array 6  Change in p  as a Function of I  A major impact on the reconstr uction algorithm is the error in estimation of the prism dispersion angle p   due to the difference in assumed and true values of the incident angle to the prism I This drives the observed error as a result of prism misalignment, as well as the correction needed in the reconstruction to account for fiel d angle.  Here, the explicit dependence of r  on I will first be examined, then the effect of prism misalignment on I   A sample of the spectrum with the object on th e optical axis  I 0\260\n to provide a baseline displacement r for each of the 5 wavelengths in the object.  The prism mount is then successively tilted to vary I   At each step, the magnitude of I  is found by pointing a laser along the optic axis through a small aperture also centered on the optic axis The I 0\260 position is identified wh en the reflection of the laser is exactly back th rough the aperture.  At I 0\260, the laser will be reflected at an angle equal to I and will hit the  6 The system is undersampled, so that changes of less than \275  pixel in location are not reliably measured 


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





