Exploring User Preference for the Dashboard Menu Design   Aaron Read University of Nebraska Omaha aread@mail.unomaha.edu  Alvin Tarrell University of Nebraska Omaha atarrell@mail.unomaha.edu  Ann Fruhling University of Nebraska Omaha afruhling@mail.unomaha.ede Abstract User interfaces generally rely on a main menu for navigation and orientation.  Therefore, the main navigational\nu layout design is a determinant of user performance and satisfaction levels.   Effective menu designs also help users avoid feeling lost and disoriented when seeking information or finding functionality.  Research on menu design finds that an 
understanding of usersê ability to recognize a menu layout through positional and semantic grouping of menu items helps explain design effectiveness and user preference.  Our research compares an expandable index menu layout design to a framebased \(dashboard\ign, and finds that the positional and semantic groupings of the framebased \(dashboard\ign were preferred.  Real clients using a live system participated in this study using the Think Aloud usability evaluation method This research is significant in that it contributes to ongoing work in development of effective user interfaces, and in that it strengthens the findings of earlier researchers 1.  Introduction Broadly speaking, Human-Computer Interaction addresses any human interaction with computers 
whether as developers or as users, as individuals or as groups S p ecif i call y the dis c iplin e of HC I is concerned with the design, evaluation, and implementation of interactive computing systems for human use and with the study of major phenomena surrounding them u rt h e r m ore, HC I propos es  techniques, methods, and guidelines for designing better and more usable artifacts  The user interface is one of the main components of any interactive computing system.  Indeed, the user interface is the part of the information system through which the end user interacts with the system 
either physically, perceptually, or conceptually and so helps form most user perceptions of the system.  There are several types of user interfaces natural language interfaces, question-and-answer interfaces, menu interfaces, form-fill interfaces command-language-interfaces, graphical user interfaces \(GUIs\, and the Web each with their own strengths and weaknesses User interface design is vital to successful information system implementation.  Information Technology projects invest a significant amount of resources in the design and construction of the user 
interfaces, in some cases 80-90% of the code of a system involves elements of the user interface.  If a user interface is poorly designed, the user s effectiveness and efficiency will decrease, defeating productivity gains envisioned for the system. It is therefore important to understand the impact on the user on various user interface designs.  This research examines the relative effectiveness of two different designs for the system s main navigational menu The information system s main menu is a key aspect of a user s experience, as it is the means of 
accessing the system s functionality d a  means for navigating the system. Like other user interfaces, a menu s presentation consists of several different elements which impact its usability.  These elements can include menu layout design organization,  color schemes, labels, and content User efficiency and satisfaction levels are directly tied to the design of the main navigational menu  Mu ch res e arch h a s th ere f ore been con d u c ted on  considerations when designing a main navigational 
menu.  A large portion of early menu design research explored hierarchical menus with tree structures of varying breadth \(number of items offered per menu and depth \(number of levels in the hierarchy    20  T h is res e arch h a s  f oun d th at us ers generally perform information searches faster and are more satisfied when a menu s tree structure has higher breadth and lower depth More recent menu design research has focused on user performance and satisfaction with different types of menu designs.  Designs explored include fish eye menus pan d able in d e x  m e nu s 44], an d cascade menus   detailed  discussion can be found in later sections of this 
paper, but the basic differences are as follows   Fish eye menus present the user with a longer list of menu items in a smaller font with the currently selected menu item magnified   Expandable index menus present menu items which, when clicked, expand to reveal the submenu related to that menu item.  The Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3 2009 U.S. Government Work Not Protected by U.S. Copyright 
 


structure of menu items and their submenus is presented like an outline   Cascade menus are similar to expandable index menus except that the submenu for an item is revealed in a new window The latest type of main navigational menu is a referred to as a system dashboard, which allows the user to view all the functionality of the system and navigate directly to the desired capability Dashboard menus are distinct from those previously discussed in that they show full system functionality on the main menu at all times, eliminating concerns with expansion, magnification, or cascading windows.  This study compares user performance and user satisfaction ratings between an expandable index menu and a frame-based dashboard menu This comparison is explored through the examination of data collected through a usability evaluation conducted with the user interface of a critical client-facing application.  The associated information system is very complex, with many interacting components and users fulfilling a variety of roles when using the system, and so has a relatively complex and potentially confusing user interface.  Qualitative and quantitative data were collected using the Think-Aloud usability evaluation method, with the data then used to evaluate and compare the two main menu designs Both designs are textually- rather than graphicallyoriented, a constraint imposed by the real world environment of the information system The following section discusses the research on menu layout design which helps to explain the differences in user performance and satisfaction between the frame-based layout and the expandable index menu designs. We then present the details of the think-aloud evaluation method we used to obtain our data, followed by an analysis of these findings.  Finally we discuss the implications of our findings for future research 2.  Background We begin by discussing the importance of menu layout design in improving user performance and satisfaction. Important design considerations are mentioned, and then illustrated through a discussion of different layout types.  Additional design considerations relevant to the comparison of the expandable index and frame-based menus are then mentioned, including menu depth and breadth and the concept of semantic and positional grouping.  We finish by discussing how these guidelines suggest that the frame-based menu should be preferred over the expandable index menu 2.1 Importance of Menus In most cases, the purpose of a menu s layout is to provide the user with a sense of the organization of the contents of the system and the available functionality.  The main menu provides a starting point, an organizational structure to help the user avoid becoming lost or disoriented while navigating through the contents of a menu m e nu s structure becomes clearer to a user when structural cues are provided [33 o r ex a m ple, th i s  m a y include providing a navigational overview similar to a website map, which helps a user to understand his or her position within the navigational structur  2.2 Menu Layout Design Considerations To understand how to compare menu layout designs, we present some generally applicable elements of effective menu layouts.  Yu and Roh  pres e n t th ree k e y ele m e n ts to be con s idered in  the design of a menu s layout:   1\ menu item presentation, 2\tructural cues, and 3\menu path flexibility.  A menu s approach to the implementation of each of these functionalities can enhance or detract from a user s ability to search for information Menu Item Presentation The first element considers how menu items are presented.  Different presentations can assist the user in finding the functionality they seek.  For example, a menu presenting items in alphabetical order or in order of frequency of use is likely of greater use than one whose items are in seemingly random order Structural Cues A menu provides structural cues by allowing a user to see where he or she is in the structure of a menu.  This can be accomplished by providing bread crumbs or by allowing the user to see the parent menus of the current menu at the same time Menu Path Flexibility A menu may allow a user to jump to a submenu without having to explore all the submenus in between, thus providing a more flexible means of navigating to the submenu These items work together to determine the basic functionality of the menu interface 2.3 Menu Types There are multiple menus layout formats to help guide a user in seeking information.  A few are mentioned here in order to illustrate how Yu and Ro s i g n ele m e n ts ca n of te n ex plai n  w h y a  certain type of menu will outperform another in guiding a user to information. The menu types discussed here include fisheye menus cade Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


menus d ex pan d able in dex  m e n u s 44 T h es e menu types are described in Table 1 below Fisheye menus offer enhanced menu item presentation by magnifying the item currently selected in the list, thereby allowing the menu to provide simultaneous visibility of more items.  This added functionality allows users to find information in a list faster than in a menu design without the enhancement [4    Table 1.  Menu Type Descriptions  Menu Type Description Fish-Eye Holds more menu item in a pulldown menu by 1\making the font size of items smaller 2\ magnifying the currently selected item Cascade Similar to pull down menus in Windows.  Each submenu window cascades to a new menu Expandable Index When a user clicks on a menu item, it expands to reveal the item's submenu  Cascade menus offer a user the ability to navigate directly to a lower-level menu item without having to traverse through each sub-menu, therefore providing greater menu path flexibility.   Yu and Roh o w  that cascade menus outperformed a standard sidebar menu.  Specifically, they show that cascade menus help users find information more effectively because they provide menu layout design elements including flexible access to information \(users can quickly peek at information in a submenu\ and make the navigational structure more apparent to prevent users from feeling lost \(the position of a submenu item is still part of a visible hierarchy Expandable index menus provide a more flexible navigation structure \(users can expand a menu item by clicking on it to reveal its contents\well as a more apparent navigational structure \(a user can better see his or her position in the hierarchy Expandable index menus provide users with additional structural cues by allowing them to see all levels of the hierarchy at the same time.  The design also provides greater path flexibility in a manner similar to cascade menus.  Since the design includes these design elements, users should perform better and be more satisfied with the expandable index menu.  However, these enhancements do not always result in higher user satisfaction and informationseeking performance.  Zaphiris et al oun d th a t  users performed better and were equally satisfied with a standard sequential hierarchical menu which had less path flexibility and structural cues.  Other design considerations are needed to explain the differences between the usability results of the Zaphiris s t u d y   T h e des i g n cons ideration s  relevant to this study follow 2.4 Depth vs. Breadth Menus commonly contain a hierarchical structure as a means of presenting menu items. When menus contain multiple levels or hierarchies, the arrangement of these hierarchies into a structure with more breadth or depth can have an impact on user information search performance, perceived complexity, and user satisfaction  T h e de pth v s  breadth inquiry began with Miller s study   Miller found that response time increased with increasing depth, and several studies later replicated these results    Kig e r [19] f o u n d th at  both user satisfaction and better performance were associated with greater menu breadth rather than depth.  Norman and Chin oun d si m i l a r resu l t s   and attributed them to the increased familiarity with menu screens that users experienced when viewing fewer menu screens.  This line of research recommends that menus should be designed so that menu items are presented in menu structures with greater breadth and less depth.  This arrangement better facilitates the user becoming familiar with the menu s structure 2.5 Positional and Semantic Chunking Another way for users to increase familiarity with a menu s structure is through positional and semantic chunking.   Positional chunking refers to spatially grouping items, and   semantic chunking refers to grouping items by similar mean h e idea of  chunking or organizing menu items in a way that has meaning to the user has been found to be a benefit to menu design  T h e arran g e m e n t  of menu options often involves inferences made by the user about logical and/or categorical relationships among items Chunking the menu items in fixed positions facilitates the ability of the user to recognize this informatio ela a n d Saariluom oun d th a t both s e m a n tic a n d  positional chunking improved a user s ability to recognize the structure of information.  Frame-based menus also provide visible navigational structure and flexibility, but do it in a way that preserves both the semantic and positional grouping of the items in frames.  When these groupings are preserved, user recognition of the menu structure is preserved leading to better information seeking performance  T h es e g r ou ping s act a s  ef f e c tiv e s t r u ct u r al c u es  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


which prevent the user from becoming disoriented   T h e y do th is i n a w a y  w h ic h allo w s t h e user to become more familiar with the menu s structure as well 3. Comparing Expandable Index Menus to Frame-Based Menus Our study compares an expandable index menu to a frame-based dashboard menu.  We predict that the frame-based menus will be preferred by the users We expect users will have more satisfaction and better performance using the frame-based menu because they will more easily recognize and learn the menu layout and identify the capabilities and features of the system.  The frame-based menu allows all submenus to be presented on screen simultaneously speeding access relative to expandable index menus where semantic grouping must be remembered, as menu items are sometimes hidden.  The frame-based menu also holds menu items in fixed positions whereas items in an expandable index do not remain positionally constant.  This fixed position characteristic contributes to higher user  satisfaction and performance using frame-based menus 3.1 Method Research in the HCI field has asserted for a long time that the study of usability factors is a key to the successful design and implementation of user interfaces  1 5 2 4 25 2 6 Broa dl y  defined, usability is the capability [of the system human functional terms to be used easily and effectively by the specified range of users, given specified training and user support, to fulfill the specified range of tasks, within the specified range of environmental scenarios  icall y   according to ISO 9241-11, usability is defined as The effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction with which specified users achieve specified goals in particular environments Other researchers are even more specific, defining usability as the extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction in a specified context of use  Applied to the field of information technology usability addresses the system s functionality and the effect of the interface on the user, and identifies specific problems of the design. Usability is evaluated through a form of testing that is applied to the design of computer software, in particular the interface with which users inte   Nielsen [25 m e a s u r e s th e u s a b ilit y o f a co m p u t er  system in terms of five attributes:  learnability efficiency, memorability, errors, and satisfaction Learnability, efficiency, and memorability are measured by choosing users with different levels of expertise to evaluate certain attributes of the system Novices are used to evaluate learnability whereas experienced users are used to evaluate efficiency Memorability is judged on how easily the casual user can return to the system after not using it for a time and still remember how the system works.  The error rate for the system reflects the amount of errors made by the user over time period.  Finally, user satisfaction is also measured subjectively Usability testing determines whether a system meets a pre-determined, quantifiable level of usability for specific types of users carrying out specific tasks.  A complete evaluation of humancomputer interaction must consider the user, the tasks, the computer, the organization, and the relationships among them s m e th ods can be employed to measure usability factors and to quantify the results Often, the methods of usability evaluation are classified according to how the system s user and computer components are represented in the evaluation process T h e t w o co m pon e n t s of t h e system can be either Real or Representational  and the resulting evaluation methods are thereby classified into four categories.  Based on all of the classifications, the evaluation methods are organized into four categories Analytical Methods In this category, both the computer and the user are representational.  A cognitive walkthrough of the system is one type of method employed. In a cognitive walkthrough reviewers evaluate a proposed interface in a context of one or more specific user tasks using a mock-up of the interface or a working prototyp Specialist Reports This category involves one or more people who are not real users assessing a version of the real computer.  It could be HCI specialists who are evaluating the design of a prototype version using relevant handbooks guidelines, or their own experiences.  Typical methods include checklists, guidelines, walkthroughs or heuristic evaluations by specialists User Reports This category involves real users and their mental representations of computers Methods typically involve the use of questionnaires interviews, or ranking methods.  The methods are used to obtain data or opinions from the users on some aspect of the system Observational Methods This category involves the real system and real users interacting with a real Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


computer.  The set of such methods is very large ranging from informal observation of a single user to full-scale experimentation with appropriate numbers of subjects and control variables.  The observation can be conducted in the real working environment  or in u s abilit y  laboratorie s 24].  Oth e r ex a m ples  of observational methods are thinking aloud  logging measuring actual user usage, and scenariobased usability evaluations 3.2 The Think Aloud Method The Think Aloud method was selected based on the availability of a real version of the system as well as real users.  Using the Think Aloud method, the user attempts to perform tasks with the system and is encouraged to think-aloud  to describe what he or she believes is happening, why certain actions were taken, and what is trying to be accomplishe  While this is happening, the usability evaluator records the information, thereby providing immediate qualitative feedback about user s problems with the system and where it occurred.  Think Aloud tests can focus on quantitativ qu alitativ e [12] data  collection or both. An advantage of Think Aloud evaluations is that they generate rich data sets from a small number of interviews.  The Think Aloud method is also classified as a discount meth  as it provides most of the benefit of more robust evaluation techniques without having to pay a much higher price in effort and resources.  This is perhaps one of the reasons why the Think Aloud evaluation method is amongst the most popular involving users  In ad dition to pr ov idin g i m m e diate f eedback about a user s efficiency and accuracy when performing tasks with the user interface, the Think Aloud method also provides immediate feedback to system designers about the user s understanding of the system.  For example, users often make comments which explain their level of understanding of the system.  These comments can be particularly helpful when they differ from the designer s understanding of the system or when they reflect difficulty using the system In addition to the Think Aloud method, a usability evaluation questionnaire was also employed to collect quantitative data.  The questionnaires were completed immediately after completion of the Think Aloud sessions a constraint we realize is not ideal from a research design perspective, but one that was necessary due to limited user availability and the compressed timeline of this project.  The questionnaire contained questions linked to the user s ability to navigate the menu, questions associated to the ease of finding information, as well as other usability-related questions.  Quantitative data can be used in conjunction with qualitative data to triangulate findings h e qu an t itati v e data of th e  usability questionnaire and the quantitative data collected with the Think Aloud interviews provide measurable results, while the qualitative data is used to explain the reasons for these results The system selected for this study was a critical system at a military facility which we will refer to as the Report Generation System \(RGS\Revisions for the system were planned including an overhaul of the system s main menu.  The RGS interface is used by approximately two hundred users to track data and generate reports.  One of the central tasks assigned to the evaluation team was to evaluate the usability of the layout and organization of the main menu for RGS.  There were two main menu design being considered, the expandable-index based menu \(see Figure 1 d the frame-based menu \(see Figure 2  The frame-based menu was not intentionally designed with spatial and semantic grouping as defined by Niemela and Saariluoma e v e r  spatial and semantic grouping were identified similar functionalities were found within the same frame.  The new design did consider such principles as enforcing recognition over recall, using borders to group tasks, color theme, and maximizing user consistency as recommended by Weiss   3.3 Participants The participants were day-to-day RGS users; eight users volunteered to participate.  The small testing sample was considered adeq uate due to availability of the distributed users, the demands on the users time and the time constraints set placed upon the team Also, as pointed out by Eveland and Dunwoody a smaller number of participants may be more appropriate for the Think Aloud method since more data is collected per individual.  It should be noted that the participants in the evaluation were not the same users who contributed recommendations for the design of the frame-based menu design for RGS 3.4 Procedures Users were first asked to complete three to five tasks using the main RGS menu as a starting point.  These tasks were specific to the function that person would normally perform within his or her particular role when using the RGS.  Since participants were users with different roles, the study  design assured that the user was assigned to complete the tasks associated with his or her day-to-day role.  This resulted in two sets of tasks, referred to in this paper as Task Group Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


A and Task Group B.  Users were asked to complete the tasks corresponding to their user role with both the frame-based menu design and the expandable index menu design.  To control for learning effects which would possibly increase user performance using whichever menu was tested second by a particular user, the order of the menu designs was swapped so that half of the users performed tasks on                   Figure 1. Expandable-Index Menu                   Figure 2. Frame-Based Menu the frame-based menu first and half performed tasks on the expandable index-based GUI first. Test administrators observed the user performing the tasks and recorded their impressions and observations, the time for completion of the task, any navigation or other errors, and also the thoughts verbalized by the subject during the conduct of the test Users were also asked to answer questions regarding menu usability and overall satisfaction Twenty questions specific to each GUI were asked  Messaging Personal Shortcuts Recently Used Role A Role B Role C Role D Administrator General Major Group 3 Task 1-1 Task 1-2 Task 1-3 Task 1-4 Task 1-5 Task 1-6 Major Group 2 Major Group 4 Major Group 6   UNCLASSIFIED EXER EXER Role Indicator Role A File     Options     Roles     Help Exercise Name Time Exer Real 30 Nov 2007  21:42 \(Z 30 Nov 2007  21:42 \(Z GUI Usability Testing Task 1-4 Task 2-1 Task 3-1-2 Task 4-3-2 Major Group 1 Task 2-1 Task 2-2 Task 2-3 Task 2-4 Task 2-5 Task 2-6 Task 2-7 Subgroup 3-1 Task 3-1-1 Task 3-1-2 Task 3-1-3 Task 3-1-4 Subgroup 3-2 Task 3-2-1 Task 3-2-2 Task 3-2-3 Task 3-2-4 Task 3-2-5 Task 3-3 Task 3-4 Task 3-5 Task 4-1 Task 4-2 Subgroup 4-3 Task 4-3-1 Task 4-3-2 Task 4-3-3 Task 4-4 Task 4-5 Major Group 5 Quick Report # 1 Quick Report # 2 Quick Report # 3 Quick Report # 4 Quick Report # 5 Quick Report # 6 Quick Report # 7 Quick Report # 8 Quick Report # 9 Quick Report # 10 Quick Report # 11 Quick Report # 12 Quick Report # 13 Quick Report # 14 Quick Report # 15 Quick Report # 16 Quick Report # 17 Quick Report # 18 Quick Report # 19 Quick Report # 20 Task 5-1 Task 5-2 Personal Shortcuts Recently Used UNCLASSIFIED EXER EXER Role Indicator Role A File     Options     Roles     Help Exercise Name Time Exer Real 30 Nov 2007 21:42 \(Z 30 Nov 2007 21:42 \(Z GUI Usability Testing Task 3-1-1 Task 3-2-3 Task 4-1-1 Task 4-1-2 Main Category Major Group 1 Major Group 2 Major Group 3 Subgroup 3-1 Subgroup 3-2 Task 3-2-1 Task 3-1-1 Task 3-1-2 Task 3-1-3 Task 3-1-4 Major Group 4 Major Group 5 Major Group 6 Task 3-2-2 Task 3-2-3 Task 3-2-4 Task 3-2-5 Task 3-3 Task 3-4 Task 3-5 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


after the tasks for each menu-design were completed and three additional overall satisfaction questions were asked at the conclusion of the test.  Each of these questions was based on a 7-point Likert scale with higher scores representing higher satisfaction Finally, users were asked to provide specific comments on overall likes, dislikes, perceptions, and comparisons between the two GUIs.  Refer to Figure 3  below for a summary of this process    Figure 3. Evaluation Test Process 4. Data Analysis and Results This section discusses the analysis of the data collected through the Think Aloud approach which is relevant to the comparison of menu layout designs Other data were collected which are relevant to usability issues other than menu layout design.  The analysis section is divided into two sub-sections: the first part of the analysis focuses on the quantitative data obtained from the usability evaluation questionnaire.  The second part of the analysis focuses on the qualitative and quantitative data obtained from the Think Aloud sessions 4.1 Usability Evaluation Questionnaire Data Analysis To compare user satisfaction with the two different menu designs, the quantitative responses to the 20 questions on the usability survey were analyzed.   Initial data analysis consisted of averaging the responses of all eight users to each of the quantitative questions.   The frame-based menu design prevailed in essentially all measures Specifically, the average score for the expandableindex menu design on the 20 questions was 4.9, while for the frame-based design it was 5.7 - an improvement of 16%.  A second analysis was also conducted by excluding those questions which applied equally to both menu designs.  For example the color schemes for both menu designs were identical, so the question asking about acceptability of the color scheme should not have been specific to either menu design.  Five such questions were eliminated, bringing the averages on the remaining 15 questions to 4.7 for the frame-based design and 5.7 for the expandable index design.  This yielded an improvement of 21 Additionally, the final overall comparison questions asked the user specifically which menu design was preferred. In this case, the frame-based menu design prevailed over the expandable index design by a 6.4 to 2.2 margin The five questions for expandable index design having the lowest averages are listed below in Table 2 These items are likely to reflect aspects of the user interface that, if improved, would most increase user satisfaction.   Note that on these lowest scoring items there was the high agreement among subjects, as indicated by the low standard deviation  Table 2.  Lowest Average Satisfaction 4.2 Analysis of Statistical Significance Further analysis of the quantitative data was conducted using the Wilcoxon Signed-Ranked Test methodology on each individual question.  This test examines groups of responses, in this case pairs of responses, to determine if there is a statistically significant difference between them.  The Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Test is a well-accepted statistical technique for analysis of dependent samples, and was chosen for this reason.  Analysis shows that differences for five of the 20 questions were significant at the 95% level, with an additional two showing differences significant at the 90% level.  The small sample size directly contributed the lack of statistical significance of most of the differences The results of the statistically significant differences are reported in Table 3 below  Evaluation Criteria Average Standard Deviation I was able to navigate easily while using the system 3.75 1.39 The labels that describe the functions were meaningful 3.75 1.39 The system was easy to use 3.87 1.46 I was able to find functionality where I expected 4 1.31 I was able to find information where I expected 4 1.61 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


4.2 Think Aloud Data Analysis Observations of user behavior and comments about the system were noted by the research team which helped to understand the usability of the two systems as well as provide insights.   The following data are examples of data relevant to the comparison of the two layout designs 4.2.1 User Comments   Several users were not satisfied with the labels used to describe submenus while using the index-based menu.  \(Note that the labels were identical between the two sample user interfaces.\e user stated that the labels were generic enough that system functions could fall under multiple labels.  Using the index-based menu  had to remember the various names of the labels when deciding which one to select, whereas on the framebased menu all labels were visible and they could easily compare and select faster.  The frame-based menu appears to have supported semantic chunking as explained by Niemala and Saariluom  4.2.2  User Errors The poor labeling of menu items confused users.  Several errors were associated with users clicking on the wrong sub-menu to locate functionality for a task.   This happened regardless of which menu design they used 4.2.3 Task Completion Times The research team did keep track of the time it took to complete the tasks.  However, the time was not accurate as some of the users requested to discuss a couple of issues therefore the time was not completely accurate and consistent.  Although the statistical differences between task completion times cannot be demonstrated, the participants completed all tasks in shorter amounts of time for the frame-based menu design.  The results of both task times are summarized below in Figure 4 and Figure 5    Figure 4. Completion Times Task Group A  Figure 5. Completion Times Task Group B 5. Discussion and Conclusions The frame-based menu design was found to be statistically better than the expandable index menu design on ease of use, ease of navigation meaningfulness of labels, ability to easily find information and ability to easily locate desired functionality.  The statistical results also indicated that users perceived they became more productive quickly using the frame-based menu design Increasing a user s ability to recognize the menu layout increases user satisfaction and performance Zaphiris et it t h at th e lo w per f or m a n c e o f  the expandable index in their study was due to the fact that as menus expanded they pushed menu items off the screen, making finding information more difficult, but this difficulty was not present in the current design.  Expandable menus do not hold menu items positionally constant as compared to the frame-based menu.  They also hide sub-menu items until the sub-menu is clicked, thereby inhibiting understanding of the semantic organization of the  Mean Scores  Evaluation Criteria Expand able Index Frame Sig The system was easy to use 3.87 6.13 Yes I was able to navigate easily while using the system 3.75 5.75 Yes The labels that describe the functions were meaningful 3.75 5.63 Yes I was able to find information where I expected 4.00 5.75 Yes The organization of functions made sense to me 4.25 5.38 Yes I was able to find functionality where I expected 4.00 5.75 Yes I could become productive quickly using the main menu 4.88 6.25 Yes Significant at 90% Confidence Interval, otherwise significant at 95  Table 3.  Differences in Satisfaction  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


sub-menu items.  The user is therefore less able to recognize the layout of the menu and requires more training and practice to become accustomed to it An interesting observation from our study is that correct labeling appears to become more important when users cannot see the group of items being labeled.  Labels were consistent between menu designs.  However, users felt that the same labels were less meaningful for the expandable index menu design where they could not see the contents of submenu relative to the frame-based menu design where they could.  In addition, they reported that organization was less clear and finding information and functionality was more problematic with the expandable-index based menu which hid contents of submenus The visibility of the menu items in the expandable index menu may have caused the user to perceive that the menu had less breadth and more depth.  Also, in the frame based dashboard menu where all menu items were constantly visible breadth and depth were non issues.   As Norman and Chin  u gg es t th e ben e f i t of  this arrang e m en t g reater  breadth than depth\ is that users need to become familiar with fewer menu levels. In the case of the frame based dashboard there were no menu levels Thus, this also likely contributed to users higher performance and preference for the frame-based dashboard menu In summary, we found the frame-based menu was a better design approach than the expandable index.   This is insight will help practitioners design and build better main menus.  It is also may be used to justify the additional effort it takes to code and design a dashboard type frame-based menu The study has two main limitations that should be noted.  First, the sample size was small, although the qualitative data was rich.  Secondly, statistical significance could not be determined for the task completion times, therefore conclusions based on these findings should be made cautiously Future research should consider the comparison of a text frame-based menu as used in this research to a more 3-D, graphical menu that incorporates various GUI visualization techniques such as GIS, video graphs, etc. We also recommend verifying our results with a larger sample size 6. References 1   Agarwal, R., Venkatesh, V Assessing a firm s web presence: a heuristic evaluation procedure for the measurement of usability  Information Systems Research  June, 2002, 13\(2\, pp. 168-186 2   Allen, R.B. "Cognitive Factors in the Use of Menus and Trees: an Experiment" IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications \(2\1983, pp 333-336 3   Baecker, H., et. al,  ACM SIGCHI Curricula for Human-Computer Interaction ACM, New York, 1992 4   Bederson, B. "Fisheye Menus," CHI Letters \(2:2 2000,  pp 217-225 5   Bernard, M.,  Hamblin, C. "Cascading versus Indexed Menu Design," Usability News \(5:1\2003 6   Campbell, D.J. "Task Complexity: A Review and Analysis," Academy of Management Review \(13\ 1988, pp 40-52 7   Carmel, E., Crawford, S., and Chen, H. "Browsing in Hypertext: A Cognitive Study," IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics \(22\1992, pp 865-884 8   Craiger, J Traveling in cyberspace: psychology of software design The Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology, Jan. 2000, 21. pp. 113-122 9   Dieberger, A. "Supporting Social Navigation on the World Wide Web," International Journal of HumanComputer Studies \(46:6\ 1997, pp 805-825 10   Dix, A. et. al, Human-Computer Interaction Prentice Hall, Inc., Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2003 11   Eveland, W., Dunwoody, S. "Examining Information Processing on the World Wide Web Using Think Aloud Protocols," Mediapsychology \(2\0, pp 219-244 12   Hill, J., Hannafin, M."Cognitive Strategies and Learning from the World Wide Web," Educational Technology Research & Development \(45:4\1997, pp 3764 13   Hofman, R., and Oostendorp, H.v. "Cognitive Effects of a Structural Overview in Hypertext," British Journal of Educational Technology \(30:2\999, pp 129-140 14   Jacko, J., and Salvendy, G. "An Experimental Study for Menu Design: Guidelines for Menu Selection Perceptual and Motor Skills \(82\1996, pp 1187-1201  15   Jeffries, R., Miller, J. R., Wharton, C., Uyeda, K. M User interface evaluation in the real world:  a comparison of four techniques Communications of the ACM, March 1991 pp. 119-124 16   Kaplan, B., Duchon, D. "Combining Qualitative and Quantitative Methods in Information Systems Research: A Case Study," MIS Quarterly \(12:4\, December 1988, pp 571-586 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


17   Kara, A.G., and Cagiltay, K. "A Comparison of Cascading Horizontal and Vertical Menus with Overlapping and Traditional Designs in Terms of Effectiveness, Error Rate, and User Satisfaction," IEEE International Symposium on Personal, Indoor, and Mobile Radio Communications, 2007, pp. 1-4 18   Karat, J User-centered software evaluation methods In M. Helander, T.K. Landauer, and P.V. Prabhu Eds.\andbook of human-computer interaction Amsterdam: North Holland, 1997 19   Kiger, J.I. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in the Design of Menu-Driven Interfaces," International Journal of Man-Machine Studies \(20\984, pp 201-213 20   Miller, D.P. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in Hierarchical Computer Menus Human Factors Society 1981, pp. 296-300 21   Newman, W. M. and Lamming, M. G., Interactive system design, Cambridge, MA, Addison-Wesley, 1995 22   Nielsen, J. "Usability Engineering at a Discount International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction Elsevier Science, Boston, 1989, pp. 394-401 23   Nielsen, J. Usability Engineering, Acad. Press, 1993  24   Nielsen, J Heuristic evaluation in J. Nielsen and R. Mack \(eds.\ Inspection Methods.  New York Wiley & Sons, 1994  25   Nielsen, J Usability metrics:  Tracking interface improvements IEEE Software, Nov 1996, pp. 12-13 26   Nielsen J www.useit.com/papers/heuristic/heuristic_list.html, 2002 27   Nielsen, J. and Mack, R., Usability inspection methods, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1994 28   Niemela, M., and Saariluoma, P. "Layout Attributes and Recall," Behaviour & Information Technology \(22:5 2003, pp 353-363 29   Norman, K.L. The Psychology of Menu Selection Ablex Publishing Corporation, Norwood, NJ, 1991 30   Norman, K.L., and Chin, J. "The Effect of Tree Structures on Search in a Hierarchical Menu Selection System," Behavior & Information Technology \(7\88, pp 51-65 31   Perlman, G. http://edgarmatias.com/faq/G/G-1.html 2000 32   Reiterer, H.,  Oppermann, R. Evaluation of User Interfaces: EVADIS II -- A Comprehensive Evaluation Approach. In Behaviour and Information Technology, 12 3\, 1993, pp. 137-148148 33   Schenkman, B.N., and Jonsson, F.U. "Aesthetics and Preferences of Web Pages," Behavior & Information Technology \(19:5\000, pp 367-377 34   Shackel, B Usability context, framework definition, design and evaluation in Human Factors for Informatics Usability, edited by Shackel, B. and Richardson, S. J., Cambridge:  Cambridge University Press 1991, pp. 21-38 35   Shneiderman, B., "Designing trust into online experiences Communications of the ACM, December 2000, pp. 57- 59  36   Shneiderman, Ben, Designing the User Interface Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction Reading, Mass., Addison-Wesley, 1986, 1987c 37   Somberg, B.L. "A Comparison of Rule-Based and Positionally Constant Arrangements of Computer Menu Items," CHI and GI 1987, ACM, New York, New York 1987, pp. 255-260 38   Vredenburg, K., et. al "A Survey of User-Centered Design Practice," SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, ACM, Minneapolis, Minnesota 2002, pp. 471-478 39   Weiss, E., and Nielsen, J. "Heuristic evaluation, a system checklist, usability analysis & design," Xerox Corporation\ 1995 40   Wharton, C., et. al The cognitive walkthrough method:  A practitioner s guide in Nielsen, J., Mack, R Usability Inspection Methods, John Wiley & Sons, 1994 41   Whitefield, A., Wilson, F., and Dowell, J. "A Framewokr for Human Factors Evaluation," Behavior Information Technology \(10:1\ 1991, pp 56-79 42  Yu, B.-M., and Roh, S.-Z. "The Effects of Menu Design on Information-Seeking Performance and User's Attitude on the World Wide Web," Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology \(53:11 2002, pp 923-933 4 Z a ph i r i s  P  an d M t ei  L Dep t h vs B r ead t h in th e Arrangement of Web Links," 1997, p. Available online http://otal.umd.edu/SHORE/bs04 44  Za ph iris  P., S hne i d e r m a n, B., a n d N o rm a n K  L   Expandable Indexes vs. Sequential Menus for Searching Heirarchies on the World Wide Web," Behavior Information Technology \(21:3\ 2002, pp 201-207 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


  Picture 6 PCS layout with virtual infrastructure and SAN  The second very important step was the installation and commissioning of a Storage Area Network SAN\, because only a network storage enables to make use of virtualization infrastructure features such as failover. This is due to the fact that virtual machine disk files may not exist on a certain host, as in case of failure it would not be accessible and available any longer to be restarted on a different physical host  SANs are either based on Fibre Channel or iSCSI Technology. The idea of both technologies is to extend the \(usually\nal data lines between hard disk controllers and hard-disks to external devices Fibre Channel has been a proven technology for this type application for years. It has a slightly better performance, but is more expensive than iSCSI iSCSI stands for Internet Small Computer System Interface It  means encapsulation  of the SCSI protocol within TCP/IP packages. Today iSCSI delivers sufficient performance to build up SANs for process automation purposes at a cement works  In such an arrangement, from a failure point of view, the SAN is the most critical peace of hardware in virtualized computer architecture  Although SANs are built up internally fail safe \(redundant power supply, NICs, hard disk controllers,\205 and data sheets give impressive figures for availability, any concept for process control purposes should allow for setting up auto-synchronizing SANs at different spots  User interface VMs running on a host are comparable to applications running on a Terminal Server. In other words, VMs obviously need input and output devices to be handled. Fat clients \(PC\222s\o good choice if it is intended to simplify the maintenance of the process control system hardware. Moreover, they are costly and sometimes prone to error Another step forward -with limited risk only- was to replace some operator stations of a segment by Thin Clients without hard disk The connection between thin client and VM is either done by vendor specific client software, RDP or VNC  Obstacles Minor issues may occur while transferring physical control systems into virtual ones Most of the problems the reference plant encountered had to do with the hardware interfaces such as serial and parallel ports and multi-media features  


Unresolved points \(minor\are to date realizing failover with legacy interfaces and sound output with Windows NT guests   CONCLUSION  Virtualization is no new but a revitalized technol ogy. First virtualization solutions \(purely based on software\ell as computer emulation deliver poor results in terms of performance  Hardware supported virtualization and pure software virtualization are totally different approaches  Virtualization today is most powerful when it combines the strengths of the different technologies. CPU demanding applications are wasting less performance than memory-intense application. \(TLB miss costs  VMware ESX is a good example of this. ESX uses Para-virtualized drivers for the most critical I/O components \(but not for the CPU\, emulation for the le ss important I/O and Binary Translation in order to avoid the high "trap and emulate" performance penalty. In this way, virtualized applications perform quite well, in some cases almost as if th ere were no extra VMM layer involved  The user benefit of virtualization is manifold. Virtualization 225  decouples software from hardware \(provides availability for \223legacy platforms\224, enables software in a cloud 225  utilizes installed hardware more efficient 225  safes space, energy, and invest cost 225  eases system administration extensively  225  but requires additional know-how of system administrators  At this point in time we can say that virtualization has met all of our expectations and offered \226in particular with respect to system administration- even more. The number of plants that started using Virtualization is growing  The process automation staff is still on a learning curve with virtualization in order to take maximum benefit of this technology  Unexploited potential is likely to be found in the field of setting up systems, handling of back-ups and disaster recovery procedures     REFERENCES  200  K. Lawton, Running muliple operating systems concurrently on an IA32 PC using virtualization techniques,http://plex86.org/research/paper.txt 200 www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/001029.html 200 it.anandtech.com 200 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_virtualization 200  Virtualization for dummies SUN and AMD special edition 200 www.intel.com/technology/virtualizatio n/technology.htm?iid=tech_vt+tech 200  2008 Automation Summit - ID#: 1474 - Dow Chemical R&D\222s Global Rollout of PCS7\256 Using VMWare\256, Chicago    200 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ring_\(computer_security 


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





