Intrusion Monitoring in Process Control Systems Alfonso Valdes Computer Science Laboratory SRI International Menlo Park CA 94025 alfonso.valdes@sri.com Steven Cheung Computer Science Laboratory SRI International Menlo Park CA 94025 steven.cheung@sri.com Abstract To protect process control networks from cyber intrusions preventive security measures such as perimeter defenses for example network rewalls and de 
militarized zones and secure versions of process control network protocols have been increasingly adopted or proposed Although system hardening and xing known vulnerabilities of existing systems are crucial to secure process control systems intrusion monitoring is essential to ensure that the preventive measures are not compromised or bypassed Our approach involves a multilayer security architecture for monitoring process control systems to achieve accurate and effective situational awareness Also we leverage some of the 
characteristics of process control systems such as the regularity of network trafìc patterns to perform intrusion detection with the potential to detect unknown attacks To facilitate human analysts to gain a better understanding of anomalous network trafìc patterns we present a visualization tool that supports multiple usercustomizable views and animation for analyzing network packet traces 1 Introduction Modern infrastructure systems in manufacturing transportation and the energy sector depend on digital 
control systems for safe and efìcient operation Examples of digital process control systems include Distributed Control Systems DCSs and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition SCADA systems used in electric power generation and distribution oil and gas O&G reìning and pipelines Early digital automation systems were isolated and used purpose-built protocols networks and operator interfaces For reasons of cost effectiveness modern systems increasingly use commercial off-the-shelf COTS network technologies such as TCP/IP Increasingly sophisticated devices such 
as remote terminal units RTUs and programmable logic controllers PLCs now come with an embedded operating system and Ethernet port and a web interface for conìguration The operator workstation humanmachine interface or HMI is now typically a Windows platform Moreover for reasons of timely business access to control system parameters control systems are increasingly connected to corporate systems preferably through a demilitarized zone DMZ that prevents direct access to the control system from the corporate network Control systems are thus in some sense coming 
to resemble enterprise IT computer systems and are increasingly connected to those systems 1.1 Motivation The migration of Process Control Systems PCSs to use COTS technologies and the connection to enterprise systems have led to great gains in economic efìciency There is some concern however that these trends have exposed control systems to cyber attack The consequences of a successful cyber attack on a PCS are potentially much more serious than those of attacks on cor 
porate systems depending on the nature of the process under control A cyber compromise of a PCS can lead to destruction of expensive equipment which can lead to loss of production that can last far longer than the time required to rebuild the compromised computer assets Such an attack can also result in release of hazardous materials into the environment and in extreme cases loss of life The need for cyber security in PCSs is thus arguably greater than the same need in enterprise IT systems Also control systems pose special challenges For ex 
ample unlike the priorities of the security objectives for a typical enterprise system PCS operators are most concerned about maintaining availability and integrity as these most directly impact safe and efìcient operation of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


the underlying process and typically less concern about conìdentiality In addition PCSs often comprise a mix of generations of equipment and older equipment may not be able to support modern security measures PCS HMI platforms tend to lag enterprise systems as far as OS version and patch level With respect to adoption of enterprise best practices in security control system cyber assets tend to lag behind enterprise systems Given these difìculties it is especially important to deìne and secure Electronic Security Perimeters ESP in control systems Firewalls switched networks and DMZs are increasingly deployed in accordance with for example the National Electric Reliability Corporation Critical Infrastructure Protection Standards NERC CIPS But this is only part of the picture we consider PCS monitoring an essential complementary defense to ensure that perimeter defenses have not been breached or bypassed Also monitoring can be useful for detecting probes failed attacks and misuse by insiders 1.2 Approach There are several key ingredients in our approach First we employ a multilayer monitoring and correlation architecture depicted in Figure 1 to achieve situational awareness which involves monitoring system events at multiple levelsÑdevice network and host levelsÑto enable more accurate and effective detection of attacks Also event correlation is performed at multiple levelsÑcontrol center utility and sector levels to achieve scalable situational awareness at different abstraction levels Event correlation is not only used to achieve event/alert reduction but also used to improve detection accuracy and coverage For example anomalous events that initially appear to be process as opposed to security related may be more suspicious if they correlate with certain alerts generated by intrusion detection sensors Model-based detection is a key detection approach we use In model-based detection we develop models that characterize the expected behavior of system components and detect attacks that cause violations of these models Denningês anomaly detection K o et al s speciìcation-based intrusion detection and F orrest et alês work on using system call sequences to detect intrusions are notable examples of this approach Unlike a more commonly used approach based on matching attack signatures knowledge about the attacks is less crucial in the model-based approach Despite its potential of detecting unknown attacks model-based detection is not widely used in enterprise networks because of the difìculties and the costs of creating accurate models We observe that process control systems tend to Figure 1 Control Center Level View of the Detection and Event Correlation Framework have more predictable network communication patterns have relatively static network and host conìgurations and typically use simpler protocols Thus model-based detection may be applicable for monitoring process control systems For analyzing anomalous network trafìc patterns detected in process control networks we are exploring the use of visualization to facilitate human analysts to gain a better understanding of the anomalies To this end we have been developing a tool called WholeNet viewer that pro vides multiple user customizable views and animation to visualize network trafìc data WholeNetViewer provides a compact data cube metadata archive that can be used to quickly summarize a data trace of a communication pattern for a time period Beyond visualization we will apply pattern anomaly detection to the results of WholeNetViewer which is discussed in more detail in Section 3 2 Architecture This section presents a layered monitoring and event correlation architecture for process control systems Figure 1 depicts the architecture for an exemplary control center The architecture consists of several types of components At the lowest layer we have intrusion detection sensors monitoring at the device network and HMI host levels These sensors report to event correlation engines based on ArcSightês Security Information Event Management SIEM framework  www arcsight.com  at control center level At the sectorwide level not shown in Figure 1 privacy-preserving security incident sharing and correlation are performed across control centers to detect security incidents that impact multiple sites in the sector Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


2.1 Intrusion Detection Intrusion detection sensors monitor the activities on the process control systems and provide timely and accurate alerting in the case of attempted cyber attacks against the control systems Attackers on the Internet may access enterprise networks of infrastructure asset owners using the enterprise as a steppingstone to attack the asset ownerês control networks Attackers may also exploit poorly conìgured access pathways for example vendor access mechanisms using known access credentials or attack sophisticated eld devices such as RTUs and PLCs increasingly featuring embedded operating systems and Internet protocol connectivity We use a model-based detection approach complemented by conventional signature-based detection In model based detection we develop models to characterize the acceptable/expected behavior of the application processes machines and users in the system and monitor the behavior of these components to detect attacks that cause violations of the models We use a broad deìnition of model-based detection which includes speciìcation-based detection change detection and statistical anomaly detection These various techniques differ in the degree of automation e.g manually specifying the models based on protocol speciìcation versus machine learning by observing system behavior 1  the abstraction levels of the system at which the models specify e.g for network trafìc one may construct models based on IP header elds or on higherlevel protocol elds the languages used to specify them and the techniques used to compare observed behavior with the models to detect violations e.g deterministic versus probabilistic approaches Compared with signature-based detectionÑa commonly used intrusion detection approach which involves developing attack signatures that capture the key characteristics of known attacks and detecting system behavior that matches those signaturesÑmodel-based detection offers the potential for detecting unknown attacks However model-based detection is not widely used in enterprise systems because it is generally difìcult to develop models that accurately capture the expected behavior and can be efìciently used to perform intrusion detection We argue that the model-based approach is more feasible for process control systems because these systems tend to have a small and static set of applications regular and predictable communication patterns and simpler protocols  1 In addition to characterizing correct and expected behavior a priori pattern anomaly detection can be used to learn discrete communication patterns and alert to novel or unusual observations To date we have investigated several detection techniques and performed an experimental validation Speciìcally we have developed protocol-level models for two protocols widely used in control networks namely Modbus TCP 2 7 and DNP3 o v e r TCP/IP 3  www.dnp.org  These models specify the expected values of packet elds and their relationships For example one of our models speciìes the allowable Modbus function codes corresponding to Modbus services Modbus requests that contain an unexpected function codeÑe.g attempting to exploit a backdoor or an obscure insecure service or performing a denial-of-service attackÑcan be detected using the model Based on these models we have developed rulesets for Snort a popular netw ork intrusion detection system IDS for detecting packets that violate them Note that Snort is typically used for signature-based detection matching network trafìc against a set of attack signatures Our work uses Snort in a different way for performing model-based detectionÑAfter developing models to characterize the expected behavior we then develop Snort rules to detect the complement of the models We have also formally speciìed the characteristics of Modbus devices using the PVS speciìcation language A future w ork item is to in v estig ate employing executable speciìcations for intrusion detection bypassing the error-prone and time-consuming manual process of converting the models into IDS rulesets Another detection technique employs a heuristic approach for learning the models pertaining to the availability of servers and services for Modbus TCP The basic idea is that when an interesting event e.g new Modbus unit ID detected or a change in the status of a Modbus service is observed for the rst time a report is generated for the state transition To this end we have implemented two intrusion detection sensors namely EMERALD Bayes sensor and EModb us The for mer contains a TCP-level service discovery component which learns active services on a monitored network and as these are discovered it maintains a Bayes instance that rapidly detects when the service is down EModbus discovers supported function codes on the Modbus servers Service discovery and monitoring of service state are directly useful from a security standpoint and 2 A Modbus client also called master may send a request message to a Modbus server also called slave A Modbus request contains a function code corresponding to the service requested e.g read a 16-bit register or perform diagnostics for the server and may include a list of arguments e.g addresses of data items After the server receives and processes the request it sends a response message back to the client 3 DNP3 Distributed Network Protocol is commonly used in electric utilities to enable data acquisition and control for RTUs and PLCs Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


can indirectly help explain other events A new service or function code in a system that has been in stable operation for some time is suspicious A Modbus device should not suddenly start responding to a previously unseen function code Monitoring service state gives a different view of system health from that obtained directly from the control system itself This can conìrm adverse conditions and motivate prompt remedial action even if the adverse state is not due to malice Alerts in this case are threaded so that the monitoring system does not generate multiple alerts for the same condition but rather periodically updates its status until the condition is remedied Also we have developed models to specify the network trafìc patterns of an examplary process control network testbed de v eloped by the Sandia National Laboratories SNL as part of the PCS security project of the Institute for Information Infrastructure Protection  http://thei3p.org  The testbed is equipped with Modbus devices running on a process control network and contains a demilitarized zone and network rewalls separating a corporate network from the process control network Based on the models we developed Snort rules for detecting violations of the trafìc patterns for the testbed This is motivated by the observation that the network trafìc patterns in process control systems are typically regular and predictable Based on the applications running on the machines in a process control network one can characterize the expected communication patterns among them For example in the network testbed the Modbus server may communicate only with a speciìed set of Modbus clients If a Modbus server is compromised and attempts to attack other hosts the network IDS may detect the anomalous communication pattern and generate an alert for the violation These model-based intrusion detection sensors have been incorporated in a multialgorithm network intrusion detection and alert correlation appliance which has the following features  Multialgorithm multilevel analysis  Stateful packet reassembly and protocol analysis engine  Bayesian protocol anomaly detection engine  Snort with a ruleset conìgured to complement the other components of the EMERALD sensor suite enhanced with the PCS ruleset from Digital Bond  www.digitalbond.com   Probabilistic alert aggregation engine The appliance uses multiple algorithms to adaptively determine the control system behavior detect and report signiìcant deviations The appliance also accepts and correlates alerts from other sensors in the PCS network including itself which can then be viewed via an Alert Management Interface AMI The appliance monitors one or more network segments by snifìng trafìc over a passive network interface so it is itself invisible to network probes and cannot engage in a TCP connection connected to the span port of a router or switch Reporting and conìguration take place through a second interface ideally connected to a network dedicated to security functions We have performed an experimental validation for the multialgorithm intrusion detection approach In this experiment SNL developed a multistep attack scenario for the testbed In the attack scenario an adversary rst compromises a machine in the corporate network typically connected to the Internet The adversary then takes control of the historian machine in the demilitarized zone using which she launches a successful attack against the historian machine in the process control network From that machine the adversary performs reconnaissance and attacks the Modbus servers and other hosts in the process control network In the experiment different detection algorithmsÑsignature-based model-based and BayesÑdetected different aspects of the multistep attack scenario and none of them can be removed without affecting detection coverage 2.2 Security Information Event Management A common problem of deploying extensive intrusion detection in infrastructure systems as in enterprise systems is the large number of IDS alerts many of which are false positive or indicative of low-level and failed threats Alert correlation combines related alerts into security incidents prioritizes incidents with respect to their likely impact on the system mission and presents a coherent view to a security analyst to enable timely and effective countermeasures In partnership with ArcSight we plan to design and implement an event correlation framework to provide a novel SIEM capability for infrastructure systems By enabling ArcSight to comprehend control system events together with IDS alerts we envision that we can achieve better detection coverage and accuracy than using IDS alerts alone Digital control systems monitor and control an underlying physical process such as ow or current As such they provide console displays of process-related alarms such as pressure or ow rate out of some speciìed range By developing correlation models for IDS alerts control Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


system/process alarms which may not be considered security related per se but appear so when correlated with an intrusion or attack and possibly alarms from physical perimeter protection systems our SIEM framework will explore the degree to which these process alarms correlate with IDS alerts to provide a content-rich security situational awareness picture In our architecture we envision multiple installations of the SIEM capability with these SIEM components organized hierarchically at multiple levelsÑcontrol center utility multiple control centers considering threats at the enterprise/control system interface and among utilities 3 Visualizing Communication Pattern Anomalies Based on an observation that the network trafìc patterns in process control systems are typically regular and predictable we are exploring techniques to detect and visualize intrusions that exhibit anomalous network trafìc patterns For visualization we are enhancing the WholeNet viewer to f acilitate the analysis of communication pattern anomalies in control system TCP/IP packet traces Brieîy the WholeNet viewer is a visualization tool that display network log data in two-dimensional gray-scale intensity plots where the user may assign various hash-function algorithms to be applied to the data in each dimension Currently the user may select from source address and/or port and destination address and/or port for the axes The viewer reads data in a variety of form including packet traces in the libpcap format The basic concept is to collect data on observables such as number of packets indexed by identiìers that can be mapped to coordinate axes such as IP address For compactness and scalability WholeNet hashes the axis coordinates to a limited set of values and represents intensity of observables on a two-dimensional display with time as a third dimension The data display consists of the two-dimensional image with a y-axis histogram on the left and an x-axis histogram below For coordinate axes we have found IP source versus IP destination and IP source versus destination port as the most useful displays The intensity darkness of the displayed pixel at any location is proportional to the count of the underlying observable The user has options to invert reverse black and white the image or either histogram compute logarithm before converting to gray scale remove the row-wise minimum a form of background noise removal useful for enhancing horizontal scans and zooming Figure 2 Communication Pattern of a Modbus TCP Server Scan The analyst controls how the input data records are to be used to create the two-dimensional gray-scale plots for one slot through numerous settable parameters These parameters deìne the data source for each dimension and the behavior of the hashing function There are also settable parameters that control how long a time interval in data units is consolidated per displayed frame The animation replay controls allow the analyst to set how long to display each frame not to be confused with the data time interval per frame previously mentioned as well as functions to pause step and back up over interesting sections For example we can display frames based on a one-minute data time interval at a rate of four frames per second effectively 240X real time Figure 2 depicts a WholeNet viewer snapshot that shows the source address versus destination address plot before left pane and after right pane an attack step in which a compromised machine in the process control network performed a scan to identify hosts on the network that included a Modbus TCP server We hash the addresses in the network so that we can map communication patterns on a 16 by 16 display in the WholeNet viewer The attack is evident in trafìc from a previously unseen source to a range of destinations horizontal feature with a symmetric vertical feature corresponding to TCP reset packets As shown in Figure 3 the WholeNet viewer display shows the effect of another attack step in which a compromised host performed a port scan The left pane of the display shows the source address versus destination port pattern before the scan and the right pane shows the communication pattern during the scan The scan is evident as a horizontal feature in the right panel corresponding to trafìc across most of the entire hash range of port numbers Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


Figure 3 Communication Pattern of a Port Scan Figure 4 Communication Pattern Before a Port Anomaly To explore the utility of visualization and pattern analysis of communications for other control system protocols we have undertaken an initial look at an OPC  http://www.opcfoundation.org  trace of 23 minutes duration from a test system We observe that when we view the communication patterns at a 60 second frame rate the communication pattern is comparatively static and looks like Figure 4 This periodicity was noted by observing the trace at varying temporal frame rates we will explore analytical techniques such as frequency-based methods to discover such periodicity in an automated fashion Fast Fourier Transforms FFTs may discover temporal frequencies at which trafìc patterns tend to repeat FFT analysis may potentially discover several such frequencies The results can be used to update the monitoring systemês knowledge base to detect anomalous communication patterns Later in the trace a new pattern is observed that persists for about two minutes this is shown in Figure 5 We obFigure 5 Communication Pattern After a Port Anomaly serve that this is qualitatively similar to the Modbus scan described earlier for which we have ground truth For the OPC trace however we do not know if the second pattern is anomalous A longer trace might permit us to determine whether this is a regular pattern that occurs with a longer period than the apparent one-minute pattern or an anomalous pattern While this is just an initial exploration on a test system and a production system may exhibit less regularity it is indicative that monitoring communication pattern regularity may be useful 4 Conclusion Modern systems in the energy sector are critically dependent on digital controls for the safe and efìcient operation of processes in such applications as reìning pipelines and electric power These process control systems were formally on isolated networks running application-speciìc protocols The pressures of the market increasingly motivate asset owners to adopt commodity platforms and networking protocols in PCSs sometimes encapsulating legacy protocols that were not designed with security in mind and to connect PCSs to business systems As a result PCSs can beneìt from advances in the wider scope of information technology However this rapid migration to commodity platforms and standards may expose PCSs to the risk of cyber attack Because PCSs control physical processes the consequences of such attacks are not merely economic but can include environmental and safety impacts The situation is exacerbated because due to the stringent availability demands of PCSs enterprise security practices such as system patching are not widely adopted Faced with this situation asset owners are adopting perimeter defenses such as rewalls and switched network topologies in PCSs and Demilitarized Zones Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


DMZs between business and control networks These preventive security measures are important and effective however intrusion monitoring is also essential to ensure that perimeter defenses are not breached or bypassed This paper presents a multilayer security architecture that addresses the challenges of PCS monitoring providing timely and accurate reporting of security-relevant events This is accomplished through model-based monitoring whose usefulness has been validated experimentally at the device network and control host levels leveraging the regularity of network communication patterns and exploiting the special-purpose nature of PCS Moreover the architecture employs a hierarchical security incident event management framework to correlate IDS alerts and potentially anomalous events generated by the PCS to achieve situational awareness at multiple levels To facilitate human analysts to better comprehend network trafìc pattern anomalies we have developed a tool that supports multiple user-customizable views and animation to visualize network packet traces Acknowledgment and Disclaimer This material is based upon work supported by the Department of Energy under Award Number DE-FC2607NT43314 This report was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of the United States Government Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof nor any of their employees makes any warranty express or implied or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy completeness or usefulness of any information apparatus product or process disclosed or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights Reference herein to any speciìc commercial product process or service by trade name trademark manufacturer or otherwise does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement recommendation or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reîect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof References  S Cheung B Dutertre M F ong U Lindqvist K Skinner and A Valdes Using model-based intrusion detection for SCADA networks In SCADA Security Scientiìc Symposium  Miami Beach Florida Jan 2007  CNN Staged c yber attack re v eals vulnerability in po wer grid Sept 2007  D E Denning An intrusion-detection model IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering  SE-13\(2 232 Feb 1987  B Dutertre F ormal modeling and analysis of the Modbus protocol In First Annual IFIP WG 11.10 International Conference on Critical Infrastructure Protection  Hanover New Hampshire Mar 2007  S F orrest S A Hofme yr  A  Somayaji and T  A Longstaff A sense of self for Unix processes In Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy  pages 120Ö128 Oakland California May 6Ö8 1996  C K o  M  Ruschitzka and K Le vitt Ex ecution monitor ing of security-critical programs in distributed systems A speciìcation-based approach In IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy  pages 175Ö187 Oakland California May 4Ö7 1997  Modb us ID A Modb us application protocol speciìcation v1.1a June 4 2004  Modb us ID A Modb us messaging on TCP/IP implementation guide v1.0a June 4 2004  North American Electric Reliability Corporation Critical infrastructure protection standards  M Roesch Snort Lightweight intrusion detection for networks In Proceedings of LISA 99 13th Systems Administration Conference  pages 229Ö238 Seattle Washington Nov 7Ö12 1999  A V aldes M F ong and K Skinner  Data cube inde xing of large infosec repositories In AusCERT Asia Paciìc Information Technology Security Conference  May 2006  A V aldes and K Skinner  Adapti v e  model-based monitoring for cyber attack detection In H Debar L Me and F Wu editors Recent Advances in Intrusion Detection RAID 2000  LNCS Toulouse France Oct 2000  A V aldes and K Skinner  Probabilistic alert correlation In W Lee L M  e and A Wespi editors Recent Advances in Intrusion Detection RAID 2001  volume 2212 of LNCS  pages 54Ö68 Davis California Oct 10 12 2001 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


  8   Figure 7   Serial R eceiver block Diagram 11  M ANAGEMENT I NTERFACE  For internal control register access, the standard part includes a MDC/MDIO serial management interface per clause 45 of IEEE 802.3ae 12  C ONCLUSION  The Honeywell Rad-Hard SerDes ASIC macro and standard part provide a unique capability for next-generation RadHard networking applications.  Communication networks developed with SerDes-embedded integrated circuits achieve significantly lower power, higher data throughput and more efficient board and chip area usage than traditional approaches for high-speed backplanes, box-tobox networking systems and chip to chip communications The flexible design allows s upport of multiple protocols and independent lane control while providing controls to optimize performance for each channel medium     
 


  9  Table 1 Definitions and Acronyms 1GE 1.25 Gbps Ethernet 1GFC 1.0625 Gbps Fibre Channel 2GFC 2.125 Gbps Fibre Channel 3GFC 3.1875 Gbps Fibre Channel per lane \226 same as 10GFC for 4 lanes 10GE XAUI 4x3.125 Gbps 10 Gigabit Ethernet Attachment Unit Interface 10GFC XAUI 4x3.1875 Gbps 10 Gigabit Fibre Channel Attachment Unit Interface BIST Built In Self Test CDR Clock and Data Recovery CMU Clock Multiplier Unit \226 Also called Phase Locked Loop \(PLL DDR Dual Data Rate Gbps Gigabits per second JTAG Joint Test Action Group Lane A lane is a SerDes transmit and receive pair. One lane supports full duplex communications MAC Media Access Controller Port A port consists of 4 SerDes Lanes SDR Single Data Rate SesDes Serializer/Deserializer SSTL-2 Stub Series Terminated Logic UI Unit Interval XGMII 10 Gigabit-Media Independent Interface  
 


  10  R EFERENCES    8 10 M odul at i on C odes for Di gi t a l M a gnet i c R ecordi ng S.Fukuda etal, IEEE Transactions on Magnetics Vol MAG-22, No. 5. September 1986  A 2.125- Gp/s BiCMOS Fiber Channel Transm itter for Serial Data Communications Muneo Fukaishi, etal, IEEE Journal of SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, vol 34, NO. 9 September 1999  B i nary C onvol ut i onal C odes wi t h  Appl i cat i on t o  M a gnet i c  Recording, Calderbank et al, IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. IT-32, NO. 6, November 1986  B IOGRAPHY  Dr. David Bueno is a Senior Systems Engineer in the Advanced Development Group of Honeywell\222s Space Electronic Systems departme nt. David specializes in modeling and simulation of computer systems and networks for next-generation space app lications. David\222s research interests include polymorphous and multi-core computing technologies, as well as high-performance interconnects for space systems. David received his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Florida in 2006, where his graduate research focused on RapidIO networks for Space-Based Radar applications Weston Roper is a Technical Manager in the mixed Signal Design Group of Honeywell\222s Semiconductor Engineering Department Gary Roosevelt is a Field Applications Engineer in the Honeywell Microelectronics Business Unit.  Gary supports customers in the selection and use of honeywell\222s ASIC and Standard product lines.  Gary has previously served in similar roles at Fujitsu Microelectronics, Atmel and AMI Gary received his BSEE in El ectrical Engineering from the University of Illinois Jamal Haque is a Staff Systems Engineer at Honeywell Aerospace division.  He received the M.S and B.S degrees in electrical engineering from University of South Florida He holds several patents in communication systems and image processing systems.   Prior to Honeywell he worked at Lucent technology, Rockwell International and AT&T where he worked on Sirius Satellite Radio, ADSL and V.34 modem research and development Thomas Romanko  is an Electrical Engineer who has been with Honeywell for 25 years. He has an extensive background in integrated circuits for radiation-hardened space applications, high-te mperature, and wireless communications He is currently in the Business Development Group as Technical Customer Interface a nd Applications Engineer for High Temperature and Radiation Hardened products, which serves both commercial and aerospace applications. He is located at Honeywell Aerospace in Plymouth, MN which is a Silicon On Insulator \(SOI      
 


  11 The choice of an SVM for recognition is based upon multiple considerations.  First, at a top level, the use of the simulation models for scenario and clutter should be optimal for recognition.  But, using these models for recognition will not create a r obust detection system.  For instance, in real situations scenarios can be reordered subject to their dependencies.  Using the generation model to detect a rearranged scenario in this case will result in a low detector score and probably a miss by the detector Therefore, separating the detection framework from the simulation framework is critical in our modeling.  Other reasons for choosing an SVM are its flexibility in incorporating multiple feat ure types, good detector performance, and a well-developed tool set We consider two types of modeling for the SVM.  First, we used bag-of-events \(BOE\odeling.  The features in this situation are the counts of n grams of events in a transaction stream.  By event, we mean the predicate name only and not its arguments.  For instance, for a predicate Meets\(Bob,John we only record only the fact that Meets  takes place and not the specific actors.  The second type of SVM modeling uses bag-of-eve nts and bag-of-arguments combined together SVM BOEA In this case, since we are using a typed ontology, we only use ngrams of types that cover a general scenario.  For instance, in our experiments we do not include names of specific people in our n gram representation, since they could be arbitrarily renamed.  An example in this case, is that if the predicate was Recon\(Bob,White House then the output ngrams \(for unigram events and bigram arguments\d be Recon_White, Recon_White_House, Recon_House  The SVM kernel for both approaches is based upon a linearized likelihood ratio kernel presented in Campbell Not e t h at i n bot h t y pes of SVM  m odel s  we only have partial information about the sequence ordering because of n grams.  This technique ensures some robustness to scenario reordering The difficulty, in general, with designing classifier features based on predicates and their arguments is that the representation space is large and has both discrete and continuous aspects \(e.g., names of individuals, ages of individuals\so, there is a tradeoff between features representing specific versus generic aspects of an entity For instance, naming specific terrorist targets such as buildings or people may be of interest in detecting some scenarios.  In other scenarios, we may be looking only for generic aspects of targets\227nationality, ownership infrastructure role, etc.  These issues are certainly a topic of future research Experiments In our first set of experiments, we constructed a scenario from the Jakarta Embassy bombing that occurred on Sept. 9 2004.  The basic outline of events was taken from approximately 50 open source new articles.  We found that a reasonable timeline of events could be gleaned from open sources, but that specific tr ansaction were difficult to document.  In some cases, details from court records highlighted in articles provided interesting insight.  From these open sources, we constructed a series of hypothetical transactions consistent with the scenario and coded a simulation model in TADL Experiments were performed using the setup in Figure 7 For our first set of experiments, we generated scenario transactions using a uniform prior for clutter transactions We generated simulated training and test data using the TADL interpreter.  An SVM with a unigram BOE model was used as a detector.  Initially, we considered various percentages of observation of the scenario and interleaving We swept the percentage of the scenario observed P from 0 to 100%.  We also swept the duty cycle D 227the percentage of scenario transactions to clutter \(as shown in the interleaving in Figure 7\\227up to 25%.  Note that the interleaving is done randomly.  The equal error rate \(EER Pmiss=Pfa\parameters for a clutter network of 1000 actors is shown in Figure 8.  Several observations can be made from this figure.  First, for D and P greater than about 20% we are getting good performance Second, duty cycle appears to be the more significant parameter in the simulation process  As part of our experiments, we also tested the effect of the prior probability distribution for the clutter model on recognition performance.  We tried to match the prior for clutter transactions closer to the actual scenario.  As expected, this created a more challenging detection task.  A DET curve comparing uniform clutter and more challenging clutter is shown in Figure 9 We remark at this point that the simulations for the Jakarta scenario were a proof of concept for intent recognition D   d u t y  c y c l e  P   p e r c e n t a g e s c e n a r i o  EER  Figure 8: EER performance of the Jakarta SVM Scenario Detector with varying parameters 
 


  12 One difficulty with a known scenario is that it is essentially 223linear\224; i.e., there is very little variation in the ordering of events.  Also, the data simulation is known and matches the experimenters\222 pre-conceived concept of the problem; i.e there is no red-teaming in the process  As a next step, we considered other sources of data.  We found that the Ali Baba simulated data set provided an interesting second way of testing our system.  As in our social network analysis experiments, we use the synthetic documents from scenario 1 of the Ali Baba data set, which includes labeling of scenario vs clutter for each transaction For our experiments, we formed two teams.  One team took the Ali Baba documents and hand-annotated transactions using the TADL ontology.  Another team constructed a TADL simulation based only upon a high-level overview of the scenario.  The goal in this case was to see if a scenario could be detected given only a minimal top-level description Our experiments used the TADL simulator to generate data and train an SVM scenario detector as in Figure 7.  Initially we constructed a clutter model based upon event priors from the Ali Baba data set.  For the SVM, we used a BOEA model where the events were unigrams and the arguments were all ngrams up to 4.  Person arguments were excluded from the BOEA modeling Results for the detection using various subsets of the annotated document sequence are shown in Figure 10.  Note that the Ali Baba data set has only one scenario instance, so in order to generate multiple trials we had to Monte Carlo sample the scenario.  The sampling was always performed with a time window covering the required duration \(e.g 25%\utter only was desired then the terrorist scenario documents were removed from the sequence.  From the figure, we note that as we observe more of the scenario the EER drops.  With about 85% observation of the scenario the detection performance is good  We performed another set of experiments where we sampled a small amount of the clutter \(about 5%\and then used this as training data for the false class for the SVM Training data for the true trials was done using the TADL simulated output.  The results of this set of experiments are shown in Figure 11.  We see that the detection performance improves dramatically Uniform Clutter EER=4 More Realistic Clutter EER=25  Figure 9: Jakarta simulated scenario detection with different clutter generation models P=0.6  D=0.1   Figure 11: Ali Baba Scen ario Detection with clutter sampled from the Ali Baba data set  Figure 10: Ali Baba Scenario Detection with a simulated event prior 
 


  13 The Ali Baba and Jakarta experiments illustrate several points.  First, modeling of the prior for clutter should be a key part of the detection process.  Theoretically, if we have a large data source, the parameters of the clutter model can be learned automatically.  The example of using samples of the Ali Baba data illustrates if we have an \223oracle\224 prior then good detection is possible \(compare Figure 10 and Figure 11 ments illustrate that the process of simulation and recognition can be decoupled The scenario detector does not have to be of the same complexity as the simulation.  In fact, a simpler detector may be more robust.  A third point illustrated by our experiments is that significant wo rk is needed in features for simulation and recognition.  Our BOEA model uses very specific features that may not generalize well.  One way to think of the process is as a query task.  We would like to give TADL examples that produce detectors that generalize to unseen situations Relation to prior work Our work in intent recognition is related to prior work in plan or goal recognition.  We have highlighted some references for this area in Section 4.  Our current approach is statistical and is thus distinct from classical plan recognition.  Our general methodology is comparable to the ASAM system [Pattipati06 b u t o u r sp ecific d etectio n  strategy using an SVM is distinct from the prior work in this area 7  O NGOING AND F UTURE W ORK  LL-SNAIR Corpus Development One of the main difficulties we found when first considering this work is the lack of truth-marked data for development.  Ideally, having raw data and markings such as a social network structure, ro les, and events and clutter in a scenario is critical to benchmarking and developing algorithms.  Although some data is available, it is usually incomplete; for instance, a soci al network may be available but the documents it was derived from are not.  One goal for future work is to develop truth-marked corpora for algorithm development and validation of technologies.  We plan to create corpora using open source scenarios and documents with a mix of simulated and real data Future R&D Directions The area of social network anal ysis with respect to intent recognition contains many opportunities for additional research.  In particular, we will consider community detection algorithms that allow actors to be members of more than one group as well as provide probabilistic features of group membership fo r intent recognition.  This should help avoid the pitfalls of making hard decisions early in the pattern recognition process.  Dynamic features of social networks, particularly those which can aid in intent recognition, represent additi onal research opportunities In the area of intent recogniti on, there are many areas of possible future research.  For simulation, we plan to create more sophisticated scenarios and tools to address the issue of partial ordering of events.  For recognition, we want to combine social network analysis, entity attributes, etc. into the intent recognition process to improve generalization 8  S UMMARY AND C ONCLUSIONS  This paper introduced a framework of social network analysis and intent recognition from multimedia input.  We demonstrated our framework in the context of multiple sources of data\227actual text documents, simulated threat scenarios, and the Ali Baba data set.  Also, we showed there is a significant need for corpor a with truth-marked social network structure and threat s cenarios.  Overall, further research on this area should focus on building both data sets real and simulated\gorithms for recognition to understand the challenges and benchmark performance A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  Our work is greatly indebted to the guidance of Zachary Lemnios of MIT Lincoln Laboratory and Robert Popp of National Security Innovations.  Both of these individuals provided key inputs and ideas to guide our research process R EFERENCES   H Tu, S. Singh, K. Pattipati and P. Willett, \223Detecting, Tracki ng  and Counterac ting Terrorist Networks via Hidden Markov Models,\224 IEEE  Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, MT, March 2004  Blayl  N B l ay l o ck and Jam e s Al l e n, \223Generat i ng artificial corpora for plan rec ognition,\224 in Liliana Ardissono Paul Brna, and Antonija Mitrovic, editors,  User Modeling 2005, number 3538 in Lecture Note s in Artificia l Intelligence pages 179-188. Springer, Edinburgh, July 24-29 2005  Bikel  D. M B i kel R L. Schwart z and R M  Weischedel. 1999. An algorithm that learns what\222s in a name Machine Learning, vol. 34, no. 1-3  Boschee E. B o schee, R W e i s chedel and A. Zam a ni an Automatic Information Extrac tion, Proceedings of the 2005 International Conference on Intelligence Analysis, McLean VA, 2-4 May 2005  Brachma R J. B r achm a n and H J Levesque Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2004  Campbell W M C a m pbel l J. P. C a m pbel l  T P Gleason, D. A. Reynolds, and W Shen, \223Speaker Verification using Support Vector Machines and High-Level Features,\224 
 


  14 IEEE Trans. Audio, Speech a nd Language Processing, Sept 2007, vol. 15, no. 7, pp. 2085-2094  Carley een. \223Destabilizing Terrorist Networks, \223Proceedings of the 8th International Command and Control Research and Technology Symposium conference held at the National Defense War College Washington DC. Evidence Based Research, Track 3 Electronic Publication  Carley C a rl ey Kat h l een & C o l u m bus, Dave DeReno, Matt & Reminga, Jeffrey & Moon, Il-Chul. \(2008 ORA User's Guide 2008. Carnegie Mellon University, School of Computer Science, Institute for Software Research Technical Report CMU-ISR-08-125  Chakrabarti  D C h akrabart i Y. Zhan, and C  Faloutsos. R-mat: A recursive model for graph mining. In SDM, 2004  Coffm Thay ne R C o ffm an Sherry  E M a rcus Dynamic Classification of Groups Through Social Network Analysis and HMMs,  2004 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings  C P. R C ohen and C T. M o rri son 223The HATS simulator,\224 Proc. of the 2004 Winter Simulation Conference 2004  Csardi G C s ardi T Nepusz The i g raph soft ware package for complex network research, - InterJournal Complex Systems, 2006  Die Di esner, Jana C a rl ey  Kat h l een 2005 Exploration of Communication Networks from the Enron Email Corpus. Proceedings of the Workshop on Link Analysis, Counterterrorism and Security, SIAM International Conference on Data Mining 2005, pp. 3-14. Newport Beach CA, April 21-23, 2005., 3-14  Doddingt G. Doddi ngt on A M i t c hel l   M   Pryzbocki, L. Ramshaw, S. Strassel, R. Weischedel, The Automatic Content Extraction \(ACE\gram Tasks, Data and Evaluation, Proceeding of LREC 2004 Conference on Language resources and Evaluation    D A. Gerdes, C Gl y m our, and J. R a m s ey  223Who\222s Calling? Deriving Organization Structure from Communication Records,\224 in Information Warfare and Organizational Decision Making, ed. Alexander Kott, 2007  Gi Gi rvan M and Newm an M E. J., Proc. Nat l  Acad. Sci. USA 99, 7821-7826 \(2002  Howe04  Howe D., \223Planning Scenarios E x e c u t i v e  Summaries,\224 The Homeland Security Council, 2004  Jakarta 2004 Wikipedi 2232004 Aust ral i a n Em bassy  Bombing,\224http://en.wikipedia org/wiki/2004_Australian_em bassy_bombing.\224   Proxi m i t y 4.3 QGraph Gui d e Novem b er 2007 http://kdl.cs.umass.edu/proximity/documentation/QGraphGui de.pdf  Kum a gi, ed., \223N ine Cautionary Tales,\224 IEEE Spectrum, Sept. 2006, pp. 36-45  McCallum Joi n t Group and Topi c Di scovery  from  Relations and Text. Andrew McCallum, Xuerui Wang and Natasha Mohanty, Statistical Network Analysis: Models Issues and New Directions, Lecture Notes in Computer Science 4503, pp. 28-44, \(Book chapter   D Jensen Relational Dependency Networks. Journal of Machine Learning Research. 8 \(March, 2007\ 653-692 http://jmlr.csail.mit.edu/papers/volume8/neville07a/neville07a pdf  Newman M E. J. Newm an \(2006 odul ari t y and community structure in networks". Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA 103: 8577\2268582    223Aut om at i c C ont ent Ext ract i on 2008 Eval uat i on Plan,\224 http://www.nist.gov/speech/tests/ace  Oliv J. Ol i v e Gl obal  Aut onom ous Language Exploitation \(GALE\ description http://www.darpa.mil/ipto/p rograms/gale/gale.asp  Popp  R   Popp and J. Yen \(edi t o rs Em ergent  Information Technologies and Enabling Policies for CounterTerrorism \(in this comprehensive reference see especially chapter 2, Hidden Markov Models and Bayesian Networks for Counter-Terrorism by K. Pa ttipati, et. al.\IEEE Press 2006  Popp R. Popp, K. Pattipati, P. W illett, D. Serfaty, W   Stacy, K. Carley, J. Allanach, H. Tu and S. Singh 223Collaborative Tools for Counte r-Terrorism Analysis,\224 IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, MT, March 2005   Pattipati P.K. Willett, J. Allanach, H Tu and S. Singh, \223Hidden  Markov Models and Bayesian Networks for Counter-terrorism,\224  R. Popp and J. Yen editors\Emergent Information Technologies  and Enabling Policies for Counter Terrorism, Wiley-IEEE Press,  May 2006, pp. 27-50  Sandl  
Todd Sandler and Kevin Siqueira, \221\221Games and Terrorism: Recent Developmen ts,\222\222 Simulation & Gaming Sep 2003; vol. 34: pp. 319 - 337   Donat, J. Lu, K. Pattipati, and P Willett, \223An Advanced System for Modeling Asymmetric 
 


  15 Threats,\224 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, October 2006  B IOGRAPHY  Clifford J. Weinstein leads the Information Systems Technology Group at MIT Lincoln Laboratory and is responsible for initiating and managing research programs in speech technology, machine translation, and information assurance. He received S.B., S.M and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from MIT. He has made technical contributions and carried out leadership roles in research programs in speech recognition, speech c oding, machine translation speech enhancement, packet speech communications information system assuran ce and survivability, integrated voice/data communication networks, digital signal processing, and radar signal processing. In 1993, Dr Weinstein was elected to th e Board of Governors of the IEEE Signal Processing Socie ty. From 1991-93, he was chairman of the IEEE Signal Pr ocessing Society's Technical Committee on Speech Processing. In 1976-78, he was chairman of that Society's Technical Committee on Digital Signal Processing. In 1993, Dr. Weinstein was elected as a Fellow of the IEEE for tec hnical leadership in speech recognition, packet speech and integrated voice/data networks. From 1986-1998, Dr. Weinstein was U.S technical specialist on the NATO RSG10 \(now IST-01 Speech Research Group, in which capacity he authored a comprehensive NATO report and journal article on opportunities for applications of advanced speech technology in military systems. From 1989-1994, he was chairman of the coordinating committee for the DARPA Spoken Language Systems Program, which was the major U.S. research program in speech recognition and understanding, and which involved coordinated efforts of a number of leading U.S. research groups. From 1999-2003 he served on the DARPA Information Sciences and Technology \(ISAT\ Panel, a group which provides DARPA with continuing assessments of the state of advanced information science and technology, and its relationship to DoD issues  Dr. Campbell is a technical staff member in the Information Systems Technology group at MIT Lincoln Laboratory.  He received his PhD in Applied Mathematics from Cornell University in 1995 Prior to joining MIT Lincoln Laboratory, he worked at Motorola on biometrics, speech interfaces, wearable computing, and digital communications.  His current research interests include machine learning, speech pro cessing, and social network analysis  Brian Delaney member of the Technical Staff at MIT Lincoln Laboratory where he has worked on statistical methods for machine translation of speech input as well as more recent efforts in social network analysis.  He received his Ph.D degree in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2004. He is a member of the IEEE  Gerald C. O\222Leary received S.B and S.M. degrees in Electrical Engineering and the Electrical Engineer degree from M.I.T in 1964 and 1966.  From 1966 to 1971, he worked at MITRE Corp in the Advanced Radar Techniques Department.  From 1971 to 1977, he worked for Signal Processing Systems Inc. in the area of programmable digital processors for communications applications.  In 1977 he joined the Technical Staff of M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory.  There he has served as Associate Leader of the Information Systems Technology Group from 1984 to 1998 and of the Tactical Communications Systems Group from 1998 to 2000.  He has worked in the areas of satellite communications, speech processing, digital networking and information security He is currently a Senior Staff in the Information Systems Technology Group.  He is a member of the IEEE  
 


  16  
 


 17 Satellite Communications Division  


engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial processes, neurotechnology and cardiotechnology, and unmanned systems. His research work has been sponsored by government and industry and has published over 250 technical papers in his area of expertise. He is the lead author of a book on "Intelligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis of Engineering Systems" published by Wiley in 2006. He is the recipient of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Activities award and the ECE Distinguished Professor award Romeo de la Cruz del Rosario, Jr. is the Chief of the Electronics Technology Branch at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. He also serves as the Army Technology Objective ATO P&amp;D Operational Readiness and Condition Based Maintenance He received the B.E.E. degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and the M.S.E. and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Since 1991 he has been an engineer at the Harry Diamond Laboratory then U.S Army Research Laboratory working in several areas including high power microwave technology characterization &amp; modeling of heterostructure RF devices and fabrication and failure analysis of electron devices and circuits  pre></body></html 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





