IT Governance and Process Maturity A Field Study  Roger Debreceny Shidler College of Business University of Hawai i at M noa rogersd@hawaii.edu Glen L Gray College of Business and Economics California State University at Northridge glen.gray@csun.edu  Abstract  An important element of IT governance is the provision of robust IT capability. The concept of process capability maturity provides a useful methodology for the measurement and analysis of the 
state of IT capability. The COBIT IT Governance framework provides both a measurement methodology and IT process structure that provides a foundation for the measurement of process capability maturity across the lifecycle of IT investment. This study reports the results of a large-scale field study of process maturity in 51 organizations in eight developed and developing countries  1. Introduction  IT governance is the tension between the exercise of decision rights, as a subset of corporate governance, and the design and execution of structures and processes to implement organizational 
objectives [1A r gu abl y th e m o s t co m p lete  definition is from the IT Governance Institute, viz the responsibility of executives and the board of directors, consisting of the leadership, organizational structures and processes that ensures the enterprise s IT sustains and extends the organization s strategy and objectives 1  Much of the discourse on IT Governance has been on the exercise of decision-making rights and the 
structuring of IT organizational forms [4, 5  T h e r e has been recent attention to a broader range of attributes of IT governance including the determinants of IT investment decision making  strategic d b u s i n e ss I T alig nm e n t [8 An  important attribute of IT Governance within this view, is the development and maintenance of the capability to perform key IT processes. The IT function working with the rest of the organization 
must build a variety of capabilities to meet organizational strategic objectives. These capabilities bring together internal and external human resources software applications, hardware, and other resources in a systematic fashion to achieve a desired outcome These outcomes may be strategic in nature, such as the determination of future direction for the IT function, tactical such as providing customer service from a help-desk or problem management, or operational in installing a systematic process for 
backup and storage of data  Unfortunately, there is little empirical evidence on the state of process maturity, narrowly, and IT capability, more broadly. The objective of this paper then, is to take a first step in quantifying the level of process maturity across the IT lifecycle. Nor is there substantiation of which aspects of IT governance are associated with process implementation  We seek to bridge this clear gap in the research literature. We address the nexus between key IT governance attributes and IT process implementation 
We draw on the well-established literature on process maturity, particularly the Capability Maturity Model CMM\ the foundation for our analysis of process implementation. We investigate and identify the key attributes of IT governance. We then bring these together in a large field study  The paper proceeds as follows. In the next section, we address the nature and measurement of process reliability and maturity. We speculate on the strategic and managerial dimensions of process 
maturity. In the third section, we consider the particular application of process maturity methods in COBIT. The next two sections address the method and results, respectively. We discuss our results in the sixth section, set out our conclusions and call for additional research in the final section  2. Achieving IT Process Reliability  2.1. Introduction  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


The generation of capability is as the result of bringing to bear a variety of resources. These include human resources, software, services and hardware The reliability and robustness of the delivery of this capability is an important element of the governance story. The Software Engineering Institute s Capability Maturity Model \(CMM\d more recent Capability Maturity Model Integration \(CMMI  a v e prov i d ed an i n t e l l e c t u a l  f oun dat i on f o r t h e  measurement of the level of capability reliability at the level of discrete processes. Given the foundation of CMM and CMMI in software development, these techniques do not allow a clear understanding of capability across the complete range of activities typically observed. Conversely, the COBIT framework w h ich i s a c o m p re h e ns iv e approach  to IT governance, leverages process maturity concepts from CMM but does so across the complete lifecycle of IT investment. COBIT also employs a domain structure that chunks the IT investment lifecycle into a logical process framework. Taken together, COBIT affords the IT governance researcher with an environment for the measurement of IT capability  2.2. COBIT, Process Maturity and Strategy  A comprehensive approach to IT governance is the COBIT framework, which groups IT activities into 34 processes within four logical domains  These processes encompass the complete lifecycle of IT investment, from strategic planning to the day-today operations of the IT function  A key concept in COBIT is the determination and systematic enhancement of process maturity. COBIT recognizes that fulfilling the objectives of the organization requires development of systematic capabilities to deliver results on each of the IT processes. These capabilities require a combination of human, software, and hardware resources bound together in a policy and procedure structure. Each of these resources requires careful monitoring through a collection of metrics and review to ensure that any given process is continuing to meet ongoing demands. The level of organizations capabilities to undertake the various IT processes within the COBIT framework differ enormously. Within a particular IT function, there can also be a considerable difference in its capabilities across the range of IT processes  The concept of process maturity in COBIT draws directly from the Software Engineering Institute s SEI s\ Capability Maturity Model \(CMM has five levels \(plus 0\ to measure the maturity of IT processes, viz: 0 Non-existent; 1 initial; 2 repeatable; 3 defined; 4 managed; and 5 optimizing. COBIT builds and expands on CMM to accommodate the diversity of processes within the COBIT framework  A process that is at a maturity of Level 1 will be managed in a largely ad-hoc fashion. There may be unstructured allocation of resources, little or no defined policies and procedures, and no performance measurement. Conversely, a process that is at Level 5 will be characterized by significant managerial attention and resources, robust and thoroughly communicated policies and procedures, draw on industry best-practice and is self-improving as a result of a systematic performance measurement and analysis feedback loop  CIOs and other organization executives know that it does not make economic sense to be at Level 5 maturity for every IT process because the benefits of being at Level 5 for every process could not justify the costs of achieving and maintaining that level of maturity. In addition, the target maturity levels would be expected to vary for different individual IT processes, IT infrastructure, and industry characteristics. For example, it may be adequate to be a Level 2 for one IT process, but it would be highly inappropriate for another, more-critical IT process   3. Application of Process Maturity in COBIT  When adopted into COBIT, the capability maturity model \(CMM\ired adjustment. As said previously, CMM has its roots in software development. The process of software engineering and development is a challenging, but a relatively straightforward task as compared with the complete range of tasks over the entire lifecycle of IT investment. CMM adoption sees logical forward movement from one discrete level to the next discrete level of maturity \(e.g. from defined to managed  Whilst this works well in the relatively confined domain of software development, it does not fit quite so neatly in the COBIT environment, which is designed to manage activities as disparate as strategic planning, service delivery, and the management of physical infrastructure. As will be discussed in the following paragraphs, COBIT provides generic attribute-specific, and process-specific definitions of each of the levels of process maturity. Figure 1 shows the generic definitions for the five maturity levels Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


 COBIT recognizes that the level of maturity may differ widely between processes within a given organization. The path to higher levels of organizational maturity may also differ across domains and processes  To define more finely a process maturity, instead of having just one maturity level for each process COBIT subdivides process maturity into the six attributes shown in Figure 2  Awareness and Communication Policies, Standards and Procedures Tools and Automation Skills and Expertise Responsibility and Accountability Goal Setting and Measurement Figure 2: Attributes of Process Maturity   0 Non-existent Complete lack of any recognisable processes. The enterprise has not even recognised that there is an issue to be addressed 1 Initial There is evidence that the enterprise has recognised that the issues exist and need to be addressed. There are however, no standardized processes; instead there are ad hoc approaches that tend to be applied on an individual or case-by-case basis. The overall approach to management is disorganised 2 Repeatable Processes have developed to the stage where similar procedures are followed by different people undertaking the same task. There is no formal training or communication of standard procedures, and responsibility is left to the individual. There is a high degree of reliance on the knowledge of individuals and, therefore, errors are likely 3 Defined Procedures have been standardised and documented, and comm unicated through training. It is, however, left to the individual to follow these processes, and it is unlikely that deviations will be detected. The procedures themselves are not sophisticated but are the formalisation of existing practices 4 Managed It is possible to monitor and measure compliance with procedures and to take action where processes appear not to be working effectively. Processes are under constant improvement and provide good practice. Automation and tools are used in a limited or fragmented way 5 Optimised Processes have been refined to a level of best practice, based on the results of continuous improvement and maturity modeling with other enterprises. IT is used in an in tegrated way to automate the workflow, providing tools to improve quality and effectiveness, making the enterprise quick to adapt Figure 1: Generic Maturity Model \(COBIT 4.1 These attributes of process maturity are each necessary for the development of maturity measures For each of the maturity levels, COBIT provides carefully developed language that provides a qualitative indication of the corresponding level of maturity for each attribute of process maturity  4. Study Method and Data Collection  The basic concepts underlying the process maturity model are relatively easy to understand However, applying those concepts to a complete range of processes in the real world that map to the lifecycle of IT investment is not straightforward. A principal objective of this study is to obtain benchmark maturity levels for each of the 34 IT processes in COBIT. We determined that a field study was the appropriate technique to collect the data  The COBIT framework provides a comprehensive set of processes that encompasses the complete IT lifecycle. Whilst adoption of COBIT was not a prerequisite for participation in the study, we wished to ensure that the study traversed the complete range of activities that a typical IT organization would likely perform. The COBIT framework provides that complete coverage in its four domains and 34 IT processes. Based on prior evaluations of process performance, we divided four of the COBIT processes into sub-processes because of the complexity and importance of the process \(e.g. DS5 Ensure Systems Security\se of markedly different concepts embedded within the process \(e.g the data classification and enterprise architecture concepts within PO2 Define the Information Architecture\s a result, we worked with a total of 41 processes  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


Given our use of COBIT as the underpinning for the study, the next important question was how to measure the process maturity. We determined that the appropriate method was to collect perceptions of maturity levels from practicing managers within the organizations in our field study. A principal advantage of this technique was that we were able to cost-effectively visit and collect data at a significant number of organizations. The managers that we interviewed took the process very seriously. Where we collected the data from more than one person for a given process, the between-person variation was typically within one level of maturity. This data is, of course, self-reported and subject to bias and we were not able to validate independently the responses by inspection of policies and procedures or through other techniques. Because of the number of Level 0 and Level 1 responses we got, the respondents seemed candid in the information they gave us  The primary criterion for selection of organizations was the size of the IT function. We were interested in collecting data on all 34 processes in COBIT. This includes processes as disparate as application development, security, facilities management and strategy and risk management. Only IT organizations of a reasonable size are likely to include the complete range of processes. With some exceptions, we worked to include in the survey organizations that had the equivalent of more than 25 staff  At the start of each interview, the researcher provided a brief description of the project and the protocol for the interview. We gave the interviewee a copy of the generic process maturity attribute table The columns were the six attributes and the rows were the scale from 1 to 5. Each cell included a brief description of what the characteristics would be for a specific attributes for each level for a specific attribute  Taking one process at a time, the interviewer would introduce the process control objectives and summarize the detailed control objective \(from the COBIT manual\for the interviewee. The interviewee would read the attribute descriptions from the process maturity attribute table to him- or herself. They would then correlate the process maturity level for each of the six attributes with the state of their particular organization s maturity for that process They would then state the maturity level for each of the six attributes. The researcher recorded the interviewee s responses  The interviewee stated two numbers for each attribute. The first number represented the current level of maturity As Is nd the second number was their expected level of maturity one year in the future To Be e allowed respondents to select a level in between the given discrete levels of process maturity \(e.g. 1.6, 2.4\ reflecting that they felt that they had not yet achieved every aspect of the next level. We found that respondents could normally see that they had got to a particular level, but had not necessarily achieved the next discrete level. We also allowed zero as a response, but with a slightly different definition than in the SEI s CMM. In CMM zero means non-existent the process does not exist at all. Some of the subjects in this study wanted to use zero to indicate that the maturity of a particular process was still significantly less than one but that the process did exist. As such, a zero is the indicated maturity level measure, not that the process did not exist at all  The interviewers also sought additional information and challenged the manager on a subset of the processes. When the manager was being interviewed on several processes, it was particularly important to ensure that the maturity levels be measured correctly early in the data collection cycle Examples of validation questions included How is management s awareness of this process communicated to the IT organization for this process and What are some of the tools and technologies supporting this process We carried this pattern to the other processes for the particular interviewee. This registration and validation process had to be handled judiciously because data collection could take an unacceptable amount of time if every data point was challenged  With some exceptions, we found that respondents understood these attributes and the descriptions of the attribute levels. For some respondents, it took a little time to recognize that the process maturity statements were to be applied only to that particular process. For example, whilst metrics, tools or techniques might exist for one process, they might not necessarily apply to another process. Further, some managers could not initially recognize the concept of goals that related to a particular process. There were more difficulties with the attribute Goal Setting and Measurement than with the others. Often managers would grasp on to a variety of broad goals rather than process goals. Similarly, managers would refer to generic performance measures or metrics that related to other processes rather than those that measured performance for the given process under discussion Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


Each of these issues was resolved by discussion using appropriate analogies and by additional questioning of the respondent  A separate questionnaire was used to interview the CIO to collect IT governance and demographic information for the organization. We investigated a wide variety of issues that have previously been identified as relevant to the study of IT governance These included   The nature and extent of strategic and tactical alignment between IT and the rest of the organization \(business/IT alignment  The structure of the IT function between, for example, centralized, decentralized and so-called federal modes  The alignment of IT governance with organization-wide governance  The characteristics and role of monitoring over IT  The adoption of IT governance processes and frameworks  We also collected demographic data on aspects such as size, industry, spending etc  5. Results  5.1. Demographics  We visited 51 organizations in Austria, Germany Switzerland, Mexico, Canada, USA, Singapore and the Philippines. With only a couple of exceptions, the minimum number of employees in the IT function in the study was 25. We also had a couple of very large IT organizations in the study, each with more than 500 staff within the IT function. Typically, however the organizations in the study had 40 to more than 100 staff in IT. Industries included services government, not-for-profit and financial services  As shown in Table 1, at 74%, centralized IT governance was by far the most common structure for the organizations in this study. Only 6% indicated a decentralized structure. The federal structure, which combines centralized operations activities and decentralized application activitie s, were reported by 20 We also asked which IT governance and IT management frameworks were in use in the organization. Figurele 2 shows that both CobiT and ITIL were used frequently in the organizations we studied. Interestingly, at 16% and 10%, respectively very few of the organizations in the study thoroughly followed either CobiT or ITIL. Only three organizations, 6%, \(one mid-sized manufacturer and two large finance sector institutions\ that they thoroughly followed both CobiT and ITIL  Governance over IT   Centralized 74 Corporate Management in control  20  IT Management in control  54 Decentralized 6  Corporate Management in control  2  IT Management in control  4 Federal 20 Total 100 Table 1: Organization of the IT Function  5.2. Process Maturity Levels by Domain  For each organization, we collected 492 data points, which represents both As Is and To Be  points in time, for six attributes, for 41 processes \(2 X 6 X 41\hen calculating the overall maturity level for one process, we took a simple average of the six attributes associated with that process. When we interviewed more than one manager for a given process, we again took a simple average of their responses. For a small number of organizations, we collected only overall process maturity level data; not attribute-level data  Framework Not Use d Infl uenc es  Partially Followe d Thorough ly Followed C OBI T 8% 32% 44% 16 ITIL 14% 30% 46% 10 ISO 17799 and ISO 27001 36% 24 32 8 CMM and CMMI 52% 32 14 2 Prince 2 84 14 2 0 PMBOK 48% 22 22 8 Table 2: IT Governance Frameworks We illustrate the process maturity levels in a series of box plots. These box plots depict numerical Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


data through the box plot s five-number summaries the lowest observation, lower quartile \(Q1\median upper quartile \(Q3\d highest observation. The interquartile range \(IQR\alculated by subtracting the first quartile \(Q1\from the third quartile \(Q3 The ends of the whiskers are 1.5 IQR lower than Q1 and 1.5 IQR higher than Q3. Any responses outside of those 1.5 IQR limits are outliers that are shown as dots on the plots. The IQR \(the length the box can be considered a measure of the consensus among the respondents. A relatively long box would indicate low consensus \(a wider distribution of responses\ and a relatively short box would indicate high consensus \(a narrower distribution of responses  Figure 3 illustrates highly aggregated data for the four process domains. Four points are evident in the figure. First, the subjects indicated that the maturity levels were expected to increase by approximately 0.5 in the next 12 months. Second, the Monitor and Evaluate \(ME\main had the lowest maturity levels. In addition, because its box is the longest \(Q3 Q1\e ME domain also had the lowest consensus of all the domains. The As Is responses for Deliver and Support \(DS\ had the widest total range of responses, extending from 0 to almost 5, which illustrates the third and fourth points, namely, even mature organizations can have Level 0 and Level 5 is achievable  Figure 3 includes the 10 processes included in the Plan and Organize \(PO\ain. As shown in the figure, the median maturity levels ranged from approximately 1.7 to 2.7, with PO7 \(Manage IT Human Resources\ having the highest median and PO2 \(Define the Information Architecture\d PO8 Manage Quality\ having the lowest median. The low-end points of the whiskers are less than Level 1 for nine of the ten processes. This illustrates two points. First, it shows that the maturity of processes can be very low, even in larger IT organizations Second, importantly, it also demonstrates that the subjects were candid in their answers if they were willing to give the researchers such low numeric answers  While there are many processes that have some interaction with corporate processes and controls outside the IT function, there are several processes in COBIT that are particularly closely tied to generic corporate processes. For example, the process PO5 Manage the IT Investment links with finance and accounting processes within the organization, at least in respect of the budgeting and expenditure control components of the process. The PO7 process Manage IT Human Resources links with corporate HR processes   Figure 3: Overall Process Maturity by Domain Conversely, the processes in this domain showing the lowest maturity are particularly challenging for IT organizations. PO2 Define the Information Architecture and PO8 Manage Quality each requires systemic change and significant human resources and monetary investment in order to achieve higher levels of maturity  Finally, in this discussion of the PO domain, the results for PO10 Manage Projects are notably high  with one important caveat. It was clear to us that significant investment has gone into the process of project management in many of the IT organizations that we visited, resulting in higher levels of maturity However, PO10 is the average of PO10PG and PO10PJ and program management \(PO10PG\, as distinct from project management \(PO10PJ\as a very different and a much lower level of maturity This shows that there is still much to be done in the management of IT investment programs   Figure 4: Process Maturity PO Domain Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


Figure 5 shows the seven processes included in the Acquire and Implement \(AI\ Domain. As shown in the figure, the median maturity levels ranged from approximately 2.4 to 3.0, with AI5 Procure IT Resources having the highest median level of process maturity and AI4 Enable Operation and Use the lowest   Figure 5: Process Maturity - AI Domain The maturity level for AI5 is not surprising, given the maturity of corporate acquisition and procurement processes with which the IT function interacts. Conversely, the result for AI4 is particularly interesting. The whisker extends all the way to the zero level. The means that some interviewees believed that their IT organization had not even achieved the most basic level of maturity of 1. As said before, this was more than a little surprising considering the size \(and general maturity of the IT organizations included in this study  Figure 6 shows the 13 processes included in the Deliver and Support \(DS\ Domain shown in the figure, the median maturity levels ranged from approximately 2.0 to 3.2, with DS12 Manage the Physical Environment having the highest median and DS1 Define and Manage Service Levels  having the lowest. Both DS2 Manage Third-party Services and DS4 Ensure Continuous Service  have whiskers extending all the way to zero  On the other hand, DS6 Identify and Allocate Costs DS7 Educate and Train Users and DS12 Manage the Physical Environment have whiskers that extend to almost 5, indicating that they have attained the highest level of maturity at some organizations. This raises an interesting side question: what does it mean that nobody reported a Level 5 for some processes? Does that mean that a 5 cannot be achieved for those processes? Or does it really mean that it is achievable, but nobody has pushed to that level because the perceived benefits of achieving Level 5 do not justify the costs? These important questions should be addressed in future research  Figure 6: Process Maturity - DS Domain It seems clear that many IT organizations have worked hard over many years to manage many of the day-to-day operational activities. We were impressed with the confidence with which managers addressed the management and controls in some processes such as DS 11 Manage Data, DS12 Manage the Physical Environment, and DS13 Manage Operations. These seem to be processes that have received a great deal of attention over many years. Similarly, there was considerable evidence that much investment has gone into each of the aspects of security. As can be seen on Figure 6, whilst divergence was relatively low, there were outliers at either end of the distribution  Figure 7 includes the 4 processes included in the Monitor and Evaluate \(ME\omain. As shown in the figure, the median maturity levels were both relatively low and close. The perceived maturity levels ranged from approximately 2.0 to 2.2. ME1 Monitor and Evaluate IT Performance had the highest median and the other processes were clustered near 2.0. As can be seen in the figure, the processes in the ME domain had the widest distribution \(lowest consensus\or ME2 Monitor and Evaluate Internal Control and ME3 Ensure Regulatory Compliance the whiskers extend from 0 to nearly 5. As we will discuss in more detail in the relevant section, many organizations had considerable difficulty in setting up systematic and formal monitoring processes  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


 Figure 7: Process Maturity - AI Domain 6. Discussion  In this study, we measure the level of process maturity across the complete IT lifecycle for 51 medium and large IT organizations in eight countries We analyze those process maturity levels in the previous section. We are now in a position to draw some overall conclusions on the state of process maturity in our sample. Figure 8 provides an overview of our findings in the form of a heat map based on the means \(averages\ the responses from the 51 organizations. The black cells represent the top third of maturity levels, the gray cells represent the middle third, and the white cells represent the bottom third. Comparing the rows \(processes\irst, we see that PO5B IT Investment-Budgeting is black \(in highest third\ across all six attributes indicating the highest level of maturity. Most large organizations such as those in this study, have a long history of formal budgeting process for the whole organization  So, it is not a surprise that the budget process had this high level of maturity. The organization-wide process is probably highly structured with routine processes and budget templates to be completed each year. PO5B was the only process that was black for all six attributes, but several processes were at the highest level for five attributes and medium for the Goal attribute, including   DS5NF - Security-Network & Firewall  DS5V - Security-Virus  DS8 - Service Desk & Incidents  DS11 - Manage Data  DS12 - Manage Physical Environment  It is interesting to note that they are all in the Deliver and Support \(DS\ Domain. In many ways these are daily, operational issues. An organization s networks are constantly under attack from the outside, so firewall \(DS5NF\d virus \(DS5V processes have to be mature or the organization will quickly find their networks infected and shut down Service desks \(DS8\being inundated with questions and incidents from users sometimes 24/7 If this service function is not operating at a high level of efficiency, the productivity of the entire organization will suffer. This process has benefitted from ITIL adoption by several of the organizations in the study. The management of data and media DS11\d the physical environment \(DS12\has a long history going back to major control issues associated with mainframe computers. These types of processes and associated problems are highly visible and well understood  At the other end of the spectrum, PO2D Architecture-Classification and PO5V IT Investment-Value Management are white \(in the lowest third\ for all six attributes. A reason why PO2D is at the low end may be that the process of classifying data requires integration of different technology and application platforms with roles and responsibilities covering both IT and the business  PO5V is the process of determining the question how does IT add value to the business  Management of value generation by IT is challenging and multi-dimensional. The formal results reinforced by discussions with IT mangers during data collection indicate that there is little emphasis on answering these value questions in most organizations  Two processes were in the lowest third for five attributes, including: PO8 - Manage Quality and DS1 Manage Service Levels. The low level of these two processes was unexpected considering the emphasis giving to quality assurance in the IT literature. It indicates that that these two processes have not moved much pass the ad hoc level  A review of the columns in Figure 8 indicates the general maturity levels for the six attributes. The extremes are quite dramatic. The Awareness attribute was in the top third for 28 \(68%\ the 41 processes It was in the lowest third for only 2 \(5%\ the 41 processes. On the other hand, the Goals attribute was essentially the mirror image of the Awareness attribute, being in the lowest third for 28 \(68%\he processes and only in the top third for 1 \(2%\of the processes   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


Process Awareness Policies Tools Skills Responsibility Goals PO1-Define a Strategic IT Plan High Low Low Low Medium Low PO2A-Architecture-Architecture Medium Low Low Low Medium Low PO2D-Architecture-Classification Low Low Low Low Low Low PO3-Technological Direction High Medium Low Medium Medium Low PO4P-IT Processes-Processes High Medium Low Low Medium Low PO4O-IT Processes-Organisation High Medium Low Medium High Low PO5B-IT Investment-Budgeting High High High High High High PO5V-IT Investment-Value Mgt Low Low Low Low Low Low PO6-Management Aims & Direction High Medium Low Low Medium Low PO7-Manage IT Human Resources High High Medium Medium High Medium PO8-Manage Quality Medium Low Low Low Low Low PO9-Assess & Manage IT Risks Medium Low Low Low Medium Low PO10PG-Manage Projects-Program Medium Low Low Low Medium Medium PO10PJ-Manage Projects-Projects High High Medium High High Medium AI1-Identify Automated Solutions High Medium Low Medium Medium Low AI2-Application Software High High Medium High High Medium AI3-Technology Infrastructure High High Low Medium High Medium AI4-Enable Operation & Use High Medium Low Medium Medium Low AI5-Procure IT Resources High High Medium Medium High Low AI6-Manage Changes High High Medium Medium High Low AI7-Install Solutions Changes High High Medium Medium High Low DS1-Manage Service Levels Medium Low Low Low Low Low DS2-Manage Third-party Services High Medium Low Medium High Low DS3-Manage Performance & Capacity High Low Medium Medium High Low DS4-Ensure Continuous Service High Medium Medium Medium Medium Low DS5P-Security-Policy High High Low Medium High Low DS5U-Security-User access High High Medium High High Medium DS5NF-Security-Network & Firewall High High High High High Medium DS5V-Security-Virus High High High High High Medium DS6-Identify & Allocate Costs High Medium Medium Medium High Low DS7-Educate & Train Users Medium Medium Low Medium Medium Low DS8-Service Desk & Incidents High High High High High Medium DS9-Manage Configuration Medium Low Low Medium Medium Low DS10-Manage Problems High Medium Medium Medium High Low DS11-Manage Data High High High High High Medium DS12-Manage Physical Environment High High High High High Medium DS13-Manage Operations High High High Medium High Medium ME1-Monitor IT Performance Medium Low Low Low Medium Low ME2-Monitor Internal Control Medium Medium Low Low Medium Low ME3-Regulatory Compliance Medium Medium Low Low Medium Low ME4-IT Governance Medium Medium Low Low Medium Low Figure 8: Heat Map Key Maturity:    High High Moderate  Low   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


Clearly, the setting of goals and metrics is a challenging task for many IT organizations. The finding for the Goals and Metrics attribute matched the relatively low level of maturity for each of the processes in the ME Monitor and Evaluate domain  The other relatively high-level attribute was Responsibility, which was in the top third for 51% of the processes. The other relatively low attribute was Tools, which was in the bottom third for 56% of the processes  The Tools and Technology attribute essentially addresses the level to which technology is used to manage the organization s technology. It is interesting that the use of tools and technology is not more mature in the technology domain  7. Conclusion  Research on IT governance concentrates on decision-making rights and the form of IT management. An important, but understudied aspect of IT governance is the ability of IT organizations to meet their many and varied challenges. Arguably mature IT processes are a necessary precondition for successful governance over IT. Process maturity concepts are important in particular domains within IT, notably in application development through the application of CMM. There is, however, very little empirical data on the level of process maturity in other domains of the broader IT endeavor. To go some way to overcome this clear gap in the research literature, we undertake a large field study of IT organizations across several countries. Seeking to encompass the complete range of IT activities, we base our investigation on the various processes in COBIT  The results in this study show that \(1\e overall level of process maturity in our study is relatively modest; \(2\ere is considerable inter-process variability in maturity with some processes that a priori might be expected to have had relatively high maturity were relatively immature and \(3\here is similar inter-organizational variation in process maturity  This research is an early contribution to an ongoing analysis of the level of process maturity and the determinants thereof. There are many questions that future research must address. For example, what is the influence of particular governance frameworks on process maturity and IT governance? Then, going futher, does higher process maturity lead to successful outcomes in the dimensions of governance. For example, does higher maturity lead to greater agility? Lower cost? What is the return on investment in process maturity? Are there particular domains within the overall realm of IT that generate higher returns on investment  References  1 ITGI Board Briefing on IT Governance  IT Governance Institute, 2003, 2nd edn. 2003 2 Van Grembergen, W., and DeHaes, S Implementing information technology governance Models, practices, and cases IGI Pub., 2008. 2008 3 ITGI IT Governance using CobiT and ValIT IT Governance Institute, 2007, 2nd edn 2007 4 Brown, A.E., and Grant, G.G Framing the Frameworks: A Review Of IT Governance Research Communications of AIS, 2005, 2005 15\712 5 Weill, P., and Ross, J.W IT governance How top performers manage IT decision rights for superior results Harvard Business School Press 2004. 2004 6 Xue, Y., Liang, H., and Boulton, W.R Information Technology Governance in Information Technology Investment Decision Processes: The Impact of Investment Characteristics, External Environment, and Internal Context MIS Quarterly 2008, 32, \(1\, pp. 67-96 7 Raghupathi, W Corporate governance of IT: A framework for development Communications of the ACM, 2007, 50, \(8\pp. 94 - 99 8 De Haes, S., and Van Grembergen, W Analysing the Relationship Between IT Governance and Business/IT Alignment Maturity Proc. 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Kailua-Kona, HI2008 pp. Pages 9 Ahern, D.M., Clouse, A., and Turner, R CMMI distilled: A practical introduction to integrated process improvement Addison-Wesley 2004, 2nd edn. 2004 10 Kasse, T Practical insight into CMMI  Artech House, 2004. 2004 11 West, M Real process improvement using the CMMI Auerbach Publications, 2004. 2004 12 ITGI Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies \(CobiT\1 IT Governance Institute, 2007. 2007   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


sector is well aware to this issue and defines it through levels, first and second levels digital divide/s [3]. The first level of digital divide/s focuses on lack of infrastructure private and public and more generally it deals with ACCESS from a technological point of view. The secondlevel of digital divide/s refers mainly to the usage level From the users/citizen point of view it includes the lack of SKILLS or AWARENESS as to how to use information communications technologies effectively and efficiently From the government point of view it focuses on how to make content ACCESSIBLE \(e.g., content that would be accessible by people with disabilities challenge of accessibility from a LANGUAGE perspective that is not yet implemented. The pilot manifested that eGovernment is more focused on the second-level of digital divide/s, that is more on the content, than the traditional one E-Commerce marginalizes and neglects the concept of digital divide/s. It is of less importance to this sector since the drivers are transactions. For example localization of content will occur if a market exists and there is a demand from consumers. The concept itself implies a certain criterion of social responsibility, which contemporarily many companies like to brag about. This pilot demonstrates that words are nice but they are not applied necessarily in the interactions of companies and consumers. It emphasized differences in justifications to the existence of e-commerce vs. e-Government entities business and economic sustainability vs. service and executing policy. Digital divide/s is a ?nice to have concept to e-Commerce and is a top-priority challenge to e-Government Proposition #28: Addressing the challenges of the digital divide/s is more likely to be found in eGovernment than in e-Commerce Proposition #29: Addressing second-level digital divide/s takes more attention in EGIS projects than firstlevel digital divide/s 4.6 Discussion and Summary We set out to investigate, identify, and characterize the similarities and differences between e-Commerce and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 e-Government since we believed that the findings from such a study would benefit academic knowledge and eCommerce and e-Government practice alike. In the following we discuss and summarize our observations and insights Similarities between e-Commerce and e-Government research question #1 According to our findings both ECIS and EGIS benefit their respective organizations significantly more when the underlying workflows and processes are not only electronic re-embodiments of their paper-based antecedents but rather streamlined, simplified, or completely discarded and replaced by different workflows and processes, which take full advantage of the technology. This seems to be increasingly understood in both commerce and government. We also found completely new workflows in both sectors, which would not have been possible without ECIS and EGIS A great incentive for streamlining and redesigning workflows and processes we found in the increased degree of collaboration within and between the sectors which has become possible in an instantaneous fashion through ECIS and EGIS We further found that collaboration between partners within and across sectors works better when it unfolds on the basis of formal agreements. In government, it was noted that imposed collaboration works poorly as opposed to collaborative engagements based on freedom of choice Interestingly, cross-sector collaboration based on 


Interestingly, cross-sector collaboration based on ECIS/EGIS reduces cost and speeds up the process on both ends even if the private-sector partner provides systems, infrastructure, and maintenance Along with transactional collaboration and integration we found increasing collaboration within and across sectors also in the area of information sharing. If collaboration thrives, we saw even the partial alignment of strategic objectives as a result. Information quality played a critical role in this context. A positive feedback between perceived IQ, information sharing, and the strength of the relationship seemed to exist We found in both sectors that similar governance structures of organizations influenced how collaborative ECIS and EGIS were designed. Remarkably, in both sectors the perceived needs of citizens \(and customers respectively sytems. In e-Commerce, organizations were interested in providing a social environment, which was conducive to a positive experience as a customer These findings suggest that ECIS/EGIS-related phenomena have important characteristics in common which go beyond the mere technical resemblance of systems and methods. Process redesign practices might be a worthwhile subject of further study. Likewise, practices and principles of organizational and technical collaboration appear to provide valuable experiences to be shared Differences between e-Commerce and e-Government research question #2 However, we also found formidable differences in practices, principles, and drivers between e-Commerce and e-Government Transaction processing was found more sophisticated and of far higher volume in commerce than in government. On the other hand, information processing and management, including the archiving of electronic records we found much more developed in the public sector than with private firms. The drivers of innovation were stronger in e-Commerce than in a e-Government however, the overall sophistication of EGIS did not appear to lag behind ECIS by orders of magnitude. Yet private sector firms were found to make far more elaborate use of historical data and data in processing in order to optimize desired organizational outcomes than government agencies. Lower information quality was also found to lead to more immediate and economically more negative effects in e-Commerce than in e-Government Still, governments struggled more than commercial organizations to maintain acceptable levels of information quality leading to far greater challenges, for example, in content management Interestingly, leadership in government appeared to be more supportive of \(in particular, collaborative projects than their commercial counterparts. It also appeared that collaborative structures in the public sector were markedly stronger than those in the private sector Although many EGIS initiatives seemingly greatly cared about citizens? involvement and participation, we found that private firms had an edge in creating a customer experience.? Almost in contradiction to this finding, we noticed that citizens were far more influential in the design of EGIS than customers were in the design of ECIS. At this point, we refrain from speculative explanations for the lack of a sufficiently large base of data Overall, what we found different between eCommerce and e-Government suggests that the two phenomena follow different trajectories despite many similarities and technical commonalities. One obvious explanation lies in the sector-specific differences, which produce different drivers also in this area. It will be 


produce different drivers also in this area. It will be interesting to analyze to what extent Enterprise  Resource Planning \(ERP introduced in government, may help align the trajectories between e-Commerce and e-Government to a higher degree than we found in this study Surprise Findings The process of involving diverse participants and the rich data that evolved from the focus groups illuminated few important phenomena, which need to be discussed One strident finding is the absence of discussion or reference to the issue of ethics both in the e-Government and e-Commerce focus groups. A whole array of clusters Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 emerging from the discussions \(e.g., information management and digital divide not raise any challenges or concerns related to normative decisions of right and wrong. The prevalence of information technologies and usage involves many questions of ethics. Managers gathering and analyzing personal and sensitive information on customers government officials deciding to implement information systems according to political constraints, and accuracy and level of information quality provided to customers and citizens are few examples of the inter-linkage between ethics and e-Government and e-Commerce Striping decisions and strategy from a system of values and norms may be more easy and beneficial in the short horizon, but in the long run may cause inherent difficulties in managing e-government or e-commerce initiatives Another problematic phenomenon we found is the disregard of issues of digital divide/s by the private sector The public sector makes many efforts to understand and address needs of diverse groups in society. EGIS hels the public sector to reach growing portions of the population more efficiently and effectively, through for example providing information in different languages or making information more accessible to populations with disabilities. The private sector, on the other hand, may address indirectly issues of digital divide/s, including issues of access and usage, but only if economic profitability is attached to these needs. Digital divide/s was not raised in the private sector as a concept, because it is not addressed directly, but as a by-product of other initiatives Limitations and future research In our samples of participants from the two sectors we found after the focus groups were conducted that eGovernment experts on average were from higher levels in the organizational hierarchy than e-Commerce practitioners who were more technically oriented and versed. Our results, hence, may be skewed that they represent more strategic perspectives in e-Government and more operational/tactical perspectives in eCommerce We also recognize that what we present here is the result of an exploratory study based on a limited number of participants. Our study attempts to lay theoretical foundations for more quantitatively oriented research on the subject, which will lead us to more generalizable results. We plan to use the twenty-nine propositions developed here in a successive study aimed at closing that gap 5. Acknowledgement We are indebted to our two graduate students Tim Carlson from the Master of Science in Information Management \(MSIM doctoral program who helped us prepare for and conduct this research 6. References 


6. References  1] R. N. Anthony, Planning and Control Systems; a Framework for Analysis. Boston: Division of Research Graduate School of Business Administration, Harvard University, 1965 2] S. Arthur and J. Nazroo, "Designing Fieldwork Strategies and Materials," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J. Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London; Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 109-137 3] K. Barzilai-Nahon, "Gaps and Bits: Conceptualizing Measurements for Digital Divide/S," The Information Society, vol. 22, pp. 10, 2006 4] K. Barzilai-Nahon and H. J. Scholl, "Similarities and Differences of e-Commerce and e-Government: Insights from a Pilot Study," in 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS40 Ed. Waikoloa/Big Island, HI: IEEE, 2007, pp. 92c\(1-10 5] B. Bozeman, " Exploring the Limits of Public and Private Sectors: Sector Boundaries as Maginot Line.," Public Administration Review, vol. 48, pp. 672-674, 1988 6] Y.-P. Chang and J. Yan, "Positioning in a New Dynamic ECommerce Business Model," in 3rd International Conference on Wireless Communications, Networking and Mobile Computing \(WICOM 2007 IEEE, 2007, pp. 3592 - 3595 7] E. Constantinides and S. J. Fountain, "Web 2.0: Conceptual Foundations and Marketing Issues," Journal of Direct, Data and Digital Marketing Practice, vol. 9, pp. 231-244, 2008 8] J. W. Creswell, Educational Research: Planning Conducting, and Evaluating Quantitative and Qualitative Research, 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Merrill, 2005 9] S. S. Dawes, "Interagency Information Sharing: Expected Benefits, Manageable Risks," Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, vol. 15, pp. 377-394, 1996 10] G. DeSanctis and M. S. Poole, "Capturing the Complexity in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory," Organization Science, vol. 5, pp. 121-147, 1994 11] H. Finch and J. Lewis, "Focus Groups," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J. Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 170198 12] L. S. Flak and S. Nordheim, "Stakeholders, Contradictions and Salience: An Empirical Study of a Norwegian G2g Effort," in Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, \(HICSS39 eGovernment Track 75tig 13] G. E. Gorman, P. Clayton, M. L. Rice-Lively, and L Gorman, Qualitative Research for the Information Professional: A Practical Handbook. London: Library Association Publishing, 1997 14] T. L. Greenbaum, The Handbook for Focus Group Research, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 1998 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 15] T. L. Greenbaum, Moderating Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Group Facilitation. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000 16] A. Groenlund, "State of the Art in e-Gov Research Surveying Conference Publications," International Journal of Electronic Government Research, vol. 1, pp. 1-25, 2005 17] A. T.-k. Ho, "Reinventing Local Governments and the EGovernment Initiative," Public Administration Review, vol 62, pp. 434-444, 2002 18] M. Janssen, G. Kuk, and R. W. Wagenaar, "A Survey of Web-Based Business Models for E-Government in the Netherlands," Government Information Quarterly, vol. 25 pp. 202, 2008 


pp. 202, 2008 19] C. Kaylor, R. Deshazo, and D. Van Eck, "Gauging EGovernment: A Report on Implementing Services among American Cities," Government Information Quarterly, vol 18, pp. 293-307, 2002 20] C. H. Kaylor, "The Next Wave of e-Government: The Challenges of Data Architecture," Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, vol. 31 pp. 18-22, 2005 21] R. Klischewski and H. J. Scholl, "Information Quality as the Capstone of E-Government Integration, Interoperation and Information Sharing," Electronic Government, an International Journal, vol. 5, pp. 203-285, 2008 22] R. A. Krueger and M. A. Casey, Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Applied Research, 3rd ed. Thousand Oaks Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000 23] E. Madriz, "Focus Groups in Feminist Research," in Handbook of Qualitative Research, N. K. Denzin and Y. S Lincoln, Eds., 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000, pp. 835-850 24] A. Mathie and J. C. Greene, "Stakeholder Participation in Evaluation: How Important Is Diversity?" Evaluation and Program Planning, vol. 20, pp. 279-285, 1997 25] L. Mohan and W. K. Holstein, "Eis: It Can Work in the Public Sector," MIS Quarterly, vol. 14, pp. 434-448, 1990 26] E. W. T. Ngai and F. K. T. Wat, "A Literature Review and Classificatiuon of Electronic Commerce Research Information &amp; Management, vol. 39, pp. 415-429, 2002 27] W. J. Orlikowski and D. Robey, "Information Technology and the Structuring of Organizations," Information Systems Research, vol. 2, pp. 143-169, 1991 28] R. Park, "Measuring Factors That Influence the Success of E-Government Initiatives," in 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS41 IEEE, 2008, pp. 218 - 218 29] M. Q. Patton, Qualitative Research and Evaluation Methods, 3 ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications 2002 30] H. Rainey, R. Backoff, and C. Levine, "Comparing Public and Private Organizations," Public Administration Review vol. 36, pp. 233-244, 1976 31] J. Ritchie, J. Lewis, and E. Gillian, "Designing and Selecting Samples," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London; Thousand Oaks, Calif Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 77-108 32] K. A. Schildt, S. Beaumaster, and S. Bailey, "Organization Antecedents of Successful It Management," presented at Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS'06 Government Track, Kauai, 2006 33] B. C. Stahl, "The Paradigm of E-Commerce in EGovernment and E-Democracy," in Electronic Government Strategies and Implementation, W. Huang, K. Siau, and K K. Wei, Eds. Hershey PA: Idea Group Pub., 2005, pp. 1-19 34] A. L. Strauss and J. M. Corbin, Basics of Qualitative Research: Techniques and Procedures for Developing Grounded Theory, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 1998 35] Y. Wang, J. Li, P. Liu, and F. Yang, "Electronic Commerce Research Review: Classification and Analysis," in 3rd International Conference on Wireless Communications Networking and Mobile Computing, \(WiCom 2007 Shanghai, PR China: IEEE, 2007, pp. 3505 - 3508 36] M. Ward and S. Mitchell, "A Comparison of the Strategic Priorities of Public and Private Sector Information Resource Executives," Government Information Quarterly vol. 21, pp. 284-304, 2004 37] M. Zajicek, "Web 2.0: Hype or Happiness?" presented at Proceedings of the 2007 international cross-disciplinary conference on Web accessibility \(W4A 2007 


  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





