MOBILE PERSONAL FIREWALL Ying QIU Jianying ZHOU Feng BA0 Institute for Infocomm Research 2 1 Heng Mui Keng Terrace, Singapore 1 196 13  qiuying jyzhou baofeng ai2r.a-star.edu.sg Abstract  More and more activities \(such as, e-commerce e-learning, e-chat, etc.\rely on mobile devices It is an im portant issue on how to protect mobile users engaged in mo bile services. Unfortunately the conventional firewalls are inappropriate for mobile networks because of the limited computing and communication capabilities of mobile de vices. Furthermore with a conventional firewall, a guardian is not able to monitor/control dynamically the mobile node\222s activities when the mobile 
node roams In this paper we introduce a new concept of mobile personal firewall and propose a concrete scheme that matches mobile environment and exploits mobile network facilities. When a mobile node MN roams into a foreign network managed by a mobility anchor point MAP the home agent HA will authorize the MP to serve as a security proxy The HA will negotiate with the M4P on the security association and then transfer to the MP the defined security rules that will be applied on all communications to the MN via the MAP The MAP could send the 
ms traffic logs to the HA The MArs guard ian could dynamically monitor the MArs activities by re trieving the ms traffic logs through the HA If necessary the MArs guardian could update the security rules so that the MN\222s activities could be controlled dynamically All the operations are transparent to the MN and the MN will be served in the way specified by his guardian no matter where he roams Keywords  Firewall, Mobile Network, MIPv6, Security I INTRODUCTION The demand for mobile communication is growing exponentially In 
many countries the number of wired phone users is currently well below that of mobile phone owners, and the function of a mobile phone is far beyond the voice communication There will be a huge market of mobile e-commerce According to the analysis of 223Mobile Commerce Report\224 l teens are the primary target markets for m-commerce services As teens are not independent in economy and must be guarded by their parents or guardians, a secure system is required to dynamically monitor and control the teens\222 activities on the Internet Unfortunately due to the limitation of the framework conventional firewall is not suitable for mobile networks 0-7803-8523-3/04/$20.00 02004 IEEE In this paper we introduce a new concept of mobile personal firewall to 
meet such a requirement in mobile networks A concrete scheme is proposed In the scheme the Home Agent HA authorizes the Mobility Anchor Point MAP as the security proxy on behalf of the HA when the mobile node MN visits the MAP subnet When the HA negotiates with the correspondent node CIV about the secu rity association SA and shared keys, it also negotiates with the MAP about security key and transfers to the WP the defined security rules for the na The security rules could specify which correspondent sites the 
MN can access without limitation e.g school network, studying web sites which correspondent sites the MN can access but with time and/or data limitation e.g game sites movie sites, purchase sites which correspondent sites the MN can access on spe cial occasions e.g world cup web sites which correspondent sites the MN cannot access, e.g adult web sites or all sites but those specified above After receiving the security rules and the MiV\222s binding up date message the MAP creates an entry for the MN that includes home address HoA as index Regional Care-of Address RCoA On-Link Care-of-Address 
LCoA security keys and the security rules, and adds it to the MP\221s access control cache. When the MN leaves the MAP the MAP can delete this entry from the access control cache When a packet routes through the hrtAP to the MN the MAP will retrieve the Mhrs entry and decide whether to forward or to drop the packet Meanwhile the MAP can send the MN\222s traffic log to the HA at specified intervals The parents or guardians can monitor the MN\222s i.e child activities by reviewing the MN\222s 
traffic logs from a remote machine If necessary, the parents can modify the security policy stored in the HA for the MN then the HA sends the updated security rules to the MAP Afterwards, the MP updates its access control cache automatically The operation is transparent to the MN i.e. child The MN will be served in a way specified by his parents no matter where he roams Furthermore before the MN could finally register with the MP the MAP should be authenticated by the HA If the 2866 


MAP is a denied router on the HA\222s access control list the HA could inform the MN to choose another nearby MAP M\224S at HA HoA or RCoA at MAP 11 BASIC KNOWLEDGE In the HMIPv6 framework 3 the MAP is a router located in a domain visited by mobile nodes. The IMAP provides the localized mobility management for the visiting mobile nodes Every MN bundles three addresses HoA RCoA and LCoA For details please refer to 3,5 The MAP functions like a Network Address Translating NAT server 6 If the MN sends the packets to its HA or CNs the source address of the packets would be set to RCoA On the contrary when the MAP receives packets with the destination address RCoA from the CN or the HA the MAP tunnels the packets to the related LCoA The CNs and HA always connect to the MN with its KOA In order to perform mutual authentication between the HA and the MAP digital signature is used in our scheme PH and SH are the publiclprivate key pair of MN\222s HA SH is kept by the HA in the home link probably inside ia tamper-resistant cryptographic processing device The home link obtains a public-key certificate CertH  HLSP PH Valid-Interval SIGcA from a certification authority CA where HLSP is the home link subnet prefix Valid-Interval is the va!lid duration of the certificate and SIGcA is the CA\222s signature on HLSP PH and Valid-nterval The advantage on the use of HLSP is de scribed in the CBU protocol 2 Similarly, the MAP has its own security suite PMp Swp and Certwp Below is a list of the notations used throughout the paper h a cryptographic secure one-way hash function or one-way hash function in short such as MD5 or SHA a keyed pseudo random function It accepts a secret key k and a message nz and generates a pseudo random output. This fimction is used for both message authentication and cryptographic key derivations e\(k m encryption of message m with a secret key k Sig\(Sx m digital signature on a message m by using a private key Sx  PxlSx a public and private key pair of node X in a digital signature public key c rypto-system such as RSA or DSS concatenation of two messages rn and n prf\(k m mln Any All HA\222s Address Accept CNl\222s Pass  Bytes  Address Drop Time  Both 222 Ports     CN,\222s pass  Bytes  Address Drop Time  Both protocols 222 Ports 111 SECURITY TABLES In our scheme, 6 cache tables will be established. The HA holds 3 cache tables a trusted MAP cache, a security rule cache and a security association cache for MAP The MAP holds 2 cache tables another security rule cache and another security association cache for MN and HA In addition the MN holds the third security association cache for the MAP Table 1 An entry of trusted MAP cache I MAPaddress I Accepted/Denied I The trust MAP cache indicates which MAP the mobile node can or cannot register with If the MAP submitted by MN is not acceptable, the HA will inform MN to try other nearby MAPS The trusted MAP cache is configured by the adminis trator or children\222s parents and kept in HA Table 1 shows an entry in the trusted MAP cache Table 2 The content of an entry in the security rule cache 1 Remote 1 Action 1 Lifetime I Restriction 1 Address Address Y I Y 5 A home agent could serve a number of registered mobile nodes, which we call local devices. Each local device could be connected to several correspondent nodes, which we call remote devices The connection between a local device and a remote device is called a channel. We can assign different security rules for every channel, which we call an entry of security rules Table 2 shows the content of an entry in the security rule cache The reason we emphasize the security rule for the channel between MN and its HA is to avoid the communication between them being blocked by MAP We retrieve an entry of this security rule cache by both the A4\223s local address and its remote address. The local address is the MN\221s home address. The remote address could be the CN\222s static address withlwithout subnet mask or its domain name if the CN is a wired machine, or the CN\222s home ad dress if the CN is a mobile device The item of \223Action\224 specifies which operation will be per formed on the packet between the local device and the re mote device. Pass Option the firewall will be transparent to the packet between the MN and the CN Drop Option: the firewall will discourage the communication between the MN and the CN The item of \223Lifetime\224 indicates how long the communica tion is allowed It could be based on the transferred data on the transferring time or on both It could even be specified for a special period of a day The item of \223Restriction\224 specifies which application proto cols or ports would be affected by the term of Action. The security rule cache is configured by the administrator or 2867 


children\222s parents and will be transferred to the MP Then the MAP generates a copy of the security rule entry and uses it to control the communication between the registered MN and its CN Time stamp Binding Update Key ksu Table 3 An entry of security association cache located in the home agent HA of a mobile node Acknowledgement I Request Key B,/R M\224S Time Stamp HoA M\224s M\224s LCoA RSA Public Key of Encryption Binding Update Acknowledgement Key EN Key kd Request Key k~u RCoA M\224s HA PH MAP Address IV. NEGOTIATION PROCESS Before building a channel between a mobile node and its correspondent node the registering MAP must negotiate with the home agent of the mobile node to generate a secu rity association, which includes Diffie-Hellman key pair for both the MP and the HA secure session keys, etc The message exchange in our scheme is the extension of the Certificate-based Binding Update \(CUB\protocol 2 In our scheme, the existence of the HA and the MAP is transparent to the CN In addition, the operations performed by the HA and the MP are transparent to both the MN and the CN Figure 1 shows the message exchange among the MN the MAP and the HA When a MN enters a MAP domain and informs its HA that it would like to register under this MAP as a router, it sends a route optimization request M~Q  Src=HoA, Des=HA RCoA MAP Reg Ran to the HA via reserve tunnelling, where Reg signals the start of the protocol and Ran is a random number Here MAP represents both the mobile anchor point and its ZP address Message MREQ is sent to Mhrs home link via the IPSec pro tected secure tunnel 2 IPSec provides replay protection only when dynamic security association establishment is used This may not always be possible and manual keying might be preferred in certain circumstances For this reason Binding Update Acknowledgement  Time Key BU Request Key BAIR Stamp we have included a random number Ran in M~Q to counter message replay MN MAP HA Fig 1 Message exchange among MN, MAP and HA Upon receiving message MREQ the HA will check whether the MP is an acceptable router according to the HA\222s own trusted MAP cache. If the MAP is a denied router, then HA will send back a message MDNr  Src=HA Des=RCoA HoA MAP Denial Ran to the MN After receiving this message, the MN will select another nearby MAP and resend message MREQ to HA Please refer to HMIPv6 3 for choice of a proper MAP If the MAP is acceptable, the HA generates a nonce No and a Diffie-Hellman secret value x  p and computes its Diffie Hellman public value X  g\223 modp Then the HA sends the MAP a message MHK Src=HoA Des=MAP No X p g Time-Stamp where Time-Stamp is a time stamp. This time stamp has two functions. One of them is used to indicate how often to up date the nonce NO Another is used to trace back the culprit should a malicious mobile node flooding attack have oc curred Upon receiving message MHK the MAP generates a nonce NI and a Diffie-Hellman secret value y  p computes its Diffie-Hellman public value Y  g\224 mod p the Diffie Hellman key k  3 modp and finally a master secret mastersecret  prf\(k NOIN Meanwhile, the MAP also computes 3 secret session keys kBa  prf\(master-secret NIINolO kBA/R  prf\(master-secret NI IN01 1 kEN  prf\(master-secret N~lN012 where kBu is the binding key used for authenticating binding 2868 


update messages from the MN to the MAP kBA/R iS the ac knowledgementhequest key used for authenticating binding acknowledgehequest messages from the AMP to the MN and kEN is the encryption key used for eincrypting packet between the MAP and the HA Then the MM sends a mes sage M  Src=MAP, Des=HoA, NI Y MAC to the MN where MA CO  prf master-secret NI I Y IMHK Note that the destination address of M is the MArs home address HoA As a result this message is delivered to the Ws home link and intercepted by the HA using IPv6 Neighbor Discovery 7 Upon intercepting message M the HA also generates the master-secret and three session keys  knu knA/R and kEN by following the same formulas used by the IMP If MAC0 is verified to be correct with the mastersecret the HA will send to the MAP a message MHC  fSrc=HoA, Des=MAP CertIf SIGH where SIGH  Sig\(S HoAIMtlpINoINI IMHKI~~~I Certlt and CertH  HLSP Pm Valid-Interval SIGCA is the public-key certificate of the home link defined before After receiving message MHc the MAP varlidates the home link\222s public key certificate CertH the signature SIGH and importantly checks the equality between the home link subnet prefix strings embedded in both CertH and HoA If all the validations and check are positive, the MAP will create an entry of security association cache for this MN that Time-Stamp At the first time RCoA and LCoA should be null and void Finally the MAP sends to the HA the following message MMC Src= MAP, Des HoA CertMAp SIGwp where SIGMp=Sig\(SMp MAPI HoA IN0 I NI I MHK MMKIMHCI CertMAp and Certup  MAP Pwp Valid-Interval\222 SIGCA 222 is the public key certificate of the MAP as defined before Again this message is intercepted by the IYA Then the HA validates the MAP\222S public key certificate CertMp the sig nature SIGMp and importantly checks the equality be tween the IP address of the MAP in both CertMp and the source address MAP If all the validations and check are positive the HA sends knv and knA/R to the MN through the secure IPSec ESP protected tunnel M~K  Src=HA, Des=RCoA, HoA Ran knu kBA/R where Ran is the random number received in M~Q After receiving message MSK the MN checks if Ran is the same as the one it sent out in MREQ If so the MN sends the binding update message includes HOA RCd LCOA kBv knA/R kEN and MBU   Src=LCoA Des=MAP, HoA RCoA, Seq Lge-Time MACBU to the MAP where Seg is a sequence number used to detect replay attack Lge-Time is the lifetime of the binding and MA CBV  prf@na HoA I LCoA I RCoA I Seg#ILge-Time are the MAC on the binding update parameters If MBv is verified positive, the MAP may reply with a bind ing acknowledgement message MBA  Src=MAP Des=LCoA, HoA RCoA, Seq L fe-Time 222 MAC where Seq is copied from the BU message Lge-Time\222 is the granted lifetime and MA CBA  prf@BA/R RCoA I MAPI Seq#l L fe-Time is a MAC generated using kBA to authenticate the BA mes sage Then the MAP will update the entry in security association cache When the MN moves to other access router AR and changes its LCoA it needs only to resend message MBU to inform the MAP to update the entry in security association cache for this MN After the MN leaves this MAP for other MAP the HA will delete the related entries in its security association cache Meanwhile, the HA also sends a message MLV  Src=HoA Des=MAP, Leave MACL to the MAP where MACL  prf\(mastersecret HoAILeave Upon receiving the message MLv the MAP will delete the related entries in its security association cache and security rule cache It is beyond the scope of this paper on how to provide seam less communication when a MN roams among APs and MAPS For related materials, please refer to 3,7,8 V FIREWALL PROCESS Figure 2 shows the message exchange to activate a mobile firewall MN MAP HA Fig 2 Message exchange to activate a mobile firewall When a MN and its CN begin the communication the HA will act as a secure proxy to negotiate the security keys for the channel between MN and CN which has been described in 2 Meanwhile, the firewall for the MN is launched 2869 


As soon as the HA intercepts the initial message MIN MINI  fSrc=HoA, Des=CN CoA\(RCoA Reg Ran from the MN the HA will retrieve the related MAP based on the Mhrs HoA from its security association caches If the MAP\222S entry is not available in the HA\222s security association cache, then the HA will send to the MN a message Mmp  fSrc=HA, Des=CoA\(RCoA HoA, Req-MAP Ran to request the MN to resend the message MEQ in order to inform HA which MAP the MN currently registeres in. Upon receiving the message the MN will then re-initiate the negotiation process described in the above section Otherwise if the MAP\222S entry is available, then the HA will get the encryption key kEN and will retrieve the security rule cache to get the security rule entry based on both Ws HoA and CN or CN\221s HoA If no security rule entry is available for the HoA and CN the default security rule will be used Then the HA will send to the MAP a message MsR MsR  Src=HoA Des=MAP rules SIGH where rules is the security rules encrypted by the encryp tion key kEN rules  e\(kEN security-rules and SIGH is the signature of the security rules signed by the home link\222s private key SH When the MAP receives the message MsR the MAP retrieves from its security association cache the related public key PH and encryption key kEN After validating the signature SIGH and getting the positive result the MAP generates an entry for the security rule and adds to its security rule cache According to HMIPv6 framework every packet from the CN to the MN will pass through the router MAP The MAP can capture all these packets and decide how to process these pockets according to the related security rule: fonvard ing or dropping the packets As the security rule is config ured based on the source address, destination address, appli cation protocols and ports our solution could implement all the features of a normal firewall 4 Moreover the MAP could also count the connecting time and the size of data transferred between the CN and the MN If they exceed the specified value in the security rule the MAP may break the communication Further, the MAP may log the MArs activities and report the activity log to the home agent at specified intervals MLOC  fSrc=MAP, Des=HoA i HoA log where HoA is used to indicate the mobile node i is used to indicate the sequence number of the log and log is the en crypted activity log of mobile node at the specified interval log e\(kEN activity-log where kEN is the encryption key between the MAP and the HA generated in the negotiation process The parents of the MN i.e child can monitor the Mhrs activities by reviewing the Mhrs logs from a remote ma chine If necessary the parents can remotely modify the SIGH  SH, HoA\(MAP\(rules security rules stored in the HA for the MN then the HA can send the message M~R to the MAP again so that the MAP can update the MV\222s security rules for synchronization. All the operation in the firewall process is transparent to the MN child VI. CONCLUSION As a conventional firewall is unsuitable for mobile net works we introduced the concept of mobile personal fire wall, and described how to implement a stateful firewall in the mobile IF\222 infrastructure. There are three main parts in our scheme 1 Authentication and authorization: this part focuses on how to authenticate between the HA and the MAP as well as between the AlN and the MAP 2 Control and monitor this part focuses on how the guardian of the Iwv can control and monitor the Mhrs activities 3 Management: this part focuses on how to effectively manage the security stuff All the operations are transparent to the mobile user, and he will be served in a way specified by his guardian no matter where he roams The mobile firewall could have full fea tures of a conventional stateful firewall For the reasons of privacy and law we limit our discussions on a scenario of teens and their parents or guardians in the paper. Obviously the idea could be employed in enterprises With the mobile firewall, the administrators could monitor and control their mobile employee\222s activities in the same way that they do on their fixed employees with conventional firewalls REFERENCES Durlacher Research Ltd, \223Mobile Commerce Report\224 1999 R H Deng, J. Zhou, and F Bao, \223Defending Against Redirect Attacks in Mobile IF\224\222 9th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pages 59 67, Washington, DC, November 2002 ACM Press H Soliman and K El-Malki, \223Hierarchical MIPv6 Mobility Management HMIPv IETF INTERNET DRAFT, Feb 2004 Linux iptable HOWTO D B Johson and C. Perkins, \223Mobility Support in P. Srisuresh and K Egevang, \223Traditional IP Network Address Translator \(Traditional NAT\IETF RFC 3022, January 2001 T. Narten, E. Nordmark, and W Simpson, \223Neighbor Discovery for IP Version 6 IPv IETF RFC 246 1 December 1998 R. Koodli, \223Fast Handovers for Mobile IPv6\224, IETF INTERNET-DRAFT, Feb 2004 IPv6,\224 IETF INTERNET-DRAFT July 2003 2870 


Tom Bnjs, Ban Goethals, Gilben Swinnen, Koen Vanhoof, and Geen Wets, "A data mining framework for optimal product selection in retail supermarket data: The generalized profset model," in Pmc. ofACM-SIC in1 ' I  con/ on knowledge discovery and doto mining, 2000 Tom Brijs, Gilben Swimen, Koen Vanhoof, and Geetl Wets, "Using associalion rules for pmduct assonment decisions: A case shldy," in Pmc ofACM-SIG in1 ' I  con/ on knowledge discovery and dam mining, 1999 6] Jiawei Hm, Jim Pei, and Yiwen Yin, "Mining frequent panems without candidate generation," in Pmc. of ACA4-SIG IM'I Con/ on Monogemen1 of Dolo, 2000 7] Jon M. Kleinberg, "Authoritative sources in a hyperlinked environment In Pme ACM-SlAMSy". on Discme Algorithms, 1998 3 141 SI 8] Jon Kleinberg, Christos Papadimitnou, and Prabhakar Raghavan, "A microeconomic view of data mining," Dolo Mining and Knowledge Dlreovery, vol. 2, 1998 9] Ramakrishnan Srikant, and Rakesh Agrawal, "Mining Generalized Association Rules", in Pmc. of the ZlsI Inl? Confir" on Very L q e Dotobases, 1995 I O ]  Raymond Chi-Wing Wong, Ada Wai-Chee Fu, and Ke Wang, "MPIS Maximal-profit item selection with cross-sellinp considerations". in Pmc ofIEEE Inl? Con/ on Dora Mifling, 2003 Ill Ke Wang, and Ming-Yen Thomas Su, "Item selection by hub-authority" profit ranking," in Pmc. of ACM-SIC in17 con/ on howledge discovery and dolo mining, 2002 4259 pre></body></html 


transactions to hundreds of seconds for 500,000 h-ansactions As FP-split algorithm only scans the database once but not twice as the FP-tree construction algorithm does, the FP-split algorithm saves more time. In the event of large number of transaction data, the I/O cost remains much less compared with that of FP-tree construction algorithm. On the other hand FP-tree construction algorithm is required to filter the non-frequent items by checking the transaction record and it reorder those frequent items in each transaction record. On the contrary, FP-split algorithm doesn  t need to do so Ev. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we have proposed an adaptive FP-tree construction algorithm - the FP-split algorithm. The FP-split algorithm is superior to FP-tree construction algorithm. There are three reasons such that the proposed method outperformed FP-tree construction algorithm in terms of tree construction The first one is that our proposed method scans the database only once. The second one is that filtering out and sorting the items in each transaction record will no longer be employed in our method. The thud one is that the header table and links will not be repeatedly searched, while adding a new node in the FP-split tree. Our future work is to develop one modified FP-split method for native XML databases ACKNOWLEDGMENT This work is supported by National Science Council of Taiwan, NSC- 93-2213-E-324-006 REFERENCES R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami  Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases  Proceedings ofthe ACM SIGMOD conference OR Management ofData, 1993, pp. 207-2 16 R. Agrawal and R. Srikant  Fast AIgorithms for Mining Association Rules  Proceedings of the 20th Intemaiional Conference on Vety Large Databnses, 1994 R. Agrawal, J. Gehrke, D. Gunopulos, and P. Raghavan  Automatic Subspace Clustering of High Dimensional Data for Data Mining Applications  Proceedings of ihe ACM SIGMOD Conference on Monugement ofDota, 1998, pp. 94-105 K. Wan&amp; S. Zhoy and S. C. Liew  Building Hierarchical Classifiers Using Class Proximity  Proceedings of ihe 25th International Conference on Very Large Daiu Bmes, 1999, pp. 363-374 J. Han and M. Kamber, Data Mining: Concepts and Techruques, CA Morgan Kauham Publishers, 2001 J. Han, J, Pei, and Y, Yin  Mining Frequent Patterns Without Candidate Generation  Proceedings of ?he ACM SIGMOD Intemaiional Conference on Management ofData, 2000, pp. 1-12 J. Han, J. Pei, Y .  Yin, and R. Mao  Mining FreCperit Patterns without Candidate Generation: A Frequent-Pattern Tree Approach  In DataMining andKnowledge Discovery, 2004, Vol. 8, pp, 53-87 K. Wang, L, Tang, J .  Him, and J. Liu  Top Down FP-Growth for Association Rule Mining  Proceedings of che 6ih Pac$c-Asia Conference on Advances in Knowledge Dircove?y ondData Mining, 2002 J, S. Park, M. S. Chen, and P. S. YU  An Effective Hash Based Algorithm for Mining Association Rules  Proceedings of the ACM pp. 334-340 S  GMOD, 1995, PP. 175-186 IO] S.  Y. Wur and Y: Leu  An Effective Boolean Algorithm for Mining Association Rules in Large Databases  The 62h Internutional Confirenee on Database Sysfems for Advanced Applications, 1999, pp. 179-1 86 1 1 1 1  R. Agarwal, C. Agganval, and V. V. V Prasad  A Tree Projection Algorithm for Generation of Frequent Itemsets  Journal on PurafIel and Disrributed Computing, 2000, Vol. 61, pp, 350-371 U]  I. Pei, J. Han, H .  Lu, S. Nishio, S. Tang, and D. Yang  H-Mine: Hyper Structure Mining of Frequent Patterns in Large Database  Proceedings of the 1st IEEE Intemotionul Conference on Dafa Mining, 2001, pp 441-448 I131 IBM Almaden Research Center, Quest synthetic data generation http://www.almaden .ibm.comlsoRware/quest/Resources/dataset html, 2005 463 pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


 The required delivery date is a Range constraint any date within the next 30 days Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  today today+30 days Attribute S&H query\(UPS Product   say it is 59.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product  Attribute Price  Attribute Total  Inter-attribute constraints in PO14 Price  Quantity  Value  1-x Total  Price  S&H  1.088 Total  Total1  Total4 In this case the Quantity attribute value has changed to 2 by adding both requests together Furthermore the Delivery-Date attribute value is a result of finding a common range of the two The obvious saving in this case is 2*$39.95 59.95\1.088  21.71 Whether a bunch of POs should be aggregated in a particular way depend on whether costing savings can be achieved while satisfying all the constraints 6.2 Intelligent Aggregation of Purchase Orders in e-Procurement with Negotiations Aggregation under dynamic negotiation is harder because supplier side could be revising its own strategies and parameters on the fly While human intervention in the aggregation process is possible we focus on automated aspects of the aggregation in this paper Suppose we have a simple supplier side rule buy one and get second one half price from LT a supplier of mice keyboard and trackball Suppose we have requests to buy Mice as follows PO5 Attribute Buyer  Organization 223B\224 User 223Joe\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 1 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/21/05 02/21/05   a r an g e of dat e s  order dat e  deadline d Attribute S&H9  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product  Attribute Price10  Value  say it\222s 29.95 Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  1 tax rate results in a value 29.95  4.95\1.088  39.97 PO6 Attribute Buyer  Organization 223C\224 User 223Al\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 1 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/25/05 02/28/05   a r an g e of dat e s  order dat e  deadline d Attribute S&H10  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product sayit\222s 29.95 per mouse Attribute Price10 Value Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  1 tax rate results in a value 29.95  4.95\1.088  39.97 6.2.1 PO Aggregation Under Negotiation The rule-based aggregation engine uses the Negotiation service to understand supplier\222s offers and tries to take advantage of the terms in the offers For example by aggregating PO5 and PO6 can be aggregated as follows PO56 Attribute Buyer  Organization B C User 223Joe\224 223Al\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 2 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/25/05 02/21/01 Attribute S&H10  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product sayit\222s 29.95 per mouse Attribute Price10 1.5*Value Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  tax  1.5 29.95  4.95\1.088  54.26 A saving of 39.97  2 54.26  25.68 or over 32 of savings Note the changes of the 223Quantity\224 and 223RequiredDelivery-Date\224 attributes after aggregation The quantities are added up and the required delivered dates are merged for a common range Due to the constraints on object attributes aggregation may require complex constraint solving Proceedings of the 2005 Ninth IEEE International ED OC Enterprise Computing Conference \(EDOC\22205 0-7695-2441-9/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


7 Conclusions and Future Work This paper describes an Intelligent Aggregation facility in enterprise e-Procurement process This facility introduces an information model a rule-based aggregation engine corporate agreement policies and negotiation in aggregating large volume of POs in enterprise eprocurement to reduce cost and maximize efficiency This information model includes extensive use of constraints for and among attributes in a PO These constraints guard the integrity of POs as they are aggregated The intelligent aggregation facility can be inserted as a value-added service in the enterprise e-Procurement workflow An enterprise generates millions of POs every year but the number of distinct products and services the enterprise purchases is actually much smaller in the hundreds rather than in the millions This presents cost saving opportunities by aggregating POs that makes best use of terms and conditions in corporate agreements or supplier offers Some concrete examples are used to show the idea of automated aggregation and the opportunities in reducing procurement cost As millions of POs are generated even a small percentage of savings would mean substantial savings for large enterprises The ideas described in this paper have not been fully implemented in our prototype One area needs more work is the formal representation of policies in corporate agreements which would allow the aggregation engine to automatically explore aggregation opportunities before POs are made to suppliers Another is the semantic model of products which would enable more semantics-based aggregation of POs 8 References  e bX M L  h t t p   w w w ebxml  org  2 e n g  J  S u  S  Y  W  L a m H   a n dH e l a l S   223Achieving Dynamic Inter-Organizational Workflow Management by Integrating Business Processes Events and Rules,\224 Proceedings of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences HICSS35 Hawaii USA January 2002 3 u  S  Y  W  L a m H   L e e  M  B a i S   a n dS h e n  Z   An Information Infrastructure and E-services for Supporting Internet-based Scalable E-business Enterprises Proceedings of the 5th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Seattle Washington USA September 2001 4 S u S Y  W   H ua ng C  H a mme r J   H u a ng Y   L i  H   Wang,L.,LiuY.,Pluempitiwiriyawej,C.,Lee,M and Lam H 223An Internet-based Negotiation Server for E-commerce,\224 VLDB Journal Vol 10 No 1 2001 pp.72-90 5 M o r r i s S l o m a n  223 P o l i c y D ri v e n M an ag em e n t f o r Distributed Systems\224 Journal of Network and Systems Management Plenum Press Vol 2 No 4 1994  M aarten S teen  J oh n D errick  223 For m ali s ing ODP Enterprise Policies\224 Proceedings of the 3 rd International nterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Mannheim Germany IEEE CS Press September 1999  J am e s H a ns on  Z oran M i l o s e v i c 223 C o n v e r s at i onOriented Protocols for Contract negotiations\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003  S  N eal J  C ole P.F L i n i ng ton  Z  Milose v i c S Gibson S Kulkarni 223Identifying Requirements for Business Contract Language a Monitoring Perspective\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003 9 T  D im itrak o s  I  D j o rd j e v i c Z  Milo sev i c A  J o san g  C Phillips 223Contract Performance Assessment for Secure and Dynamic Virtual Collaborations\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003 Proceedings of the 2005 Ninth IEEE International ED OC Enterprise Computing Conference \(EDOC\22205 0-7695-2441-9/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


absolute values. The results can vary on other computers. But it can be guaranteed that performance ratio of the algorithms will remain the same After making the comparisons with sample data, we came to the conclusion that PD algorithm performs significantly better than the other two especially with larger datasets. PD outperforms DCP and PIP regarding running time. On the other hand, since PD reduces the dataset, mining time does not necessary increase as the number of transactions increases and experiments reveals that PD has better scalability than DCP and PIP. So, PD has the ability to handle the large data mine in practical field like market basket analysis and medical report documents mining 5. References 1] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algoritlnns for mining association rules", VLDB'94, pp. 487-499 2] R. J. Bayardo, "Efficiently mining long patterns from databases", SIGMOD'98, pp.85-93 3] J. Pei, J. Han, and R. Mao, "CLOSET: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets \(PDF Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD International Workshop on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, Dallas, TX, May 2000 4] Qinghua Zou, Henry Chiu, Wesley Chu, David Johnson, "Using Pattern Decomposition\( PD Finding All Frequent Patterns in Large Datasets", Computer Science Department University of California - Los Angeles 5] J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin, "Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation \(PDF  SIGMOD International Con! on Management of Data SIGMOD'OOj, Dallas, TX, May 2000 6] S. Orlando, P. Palmerini, and R. Perego, "The DCP algoritlnn for Frequent Set Counting", Technical Report CS2001-7, Dip. di Informatica, Universita di Venezia 2001.Available at http://www.dsi.unive.itl?orlando/TR017.pdf 7] MD. Mamun-Or-Rashid, MD.Rezaul Karim, "Predictive item pruning FP-tree algoritlnn", The Dhaka University  Journal of Science, VOL. 52, NO. 1, October,2003, pp. 3946 8] Park, J. S., Chen, M.-S., and Yu, P. S, "An Effective Hash Based Algoritlnn for Mining Association Rules", Proc ofthe 1995 ACM-SIGMOD Con! on Management of Data 175-186 9] Brin, S., Motwani, R., Ullman, J., and Tsur, S, "Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data", In Proc. of the 1997 ACM-SIGMOD Conf On Management of Data, 255-264 10] Zaki, M. J., Parthasarathy, S., Ogihara, M., and Li, W New Algoritlnns for Fast Discovery of Association Rules In Proc. of the Third Int'l Con! on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining, 283-286 11] Lin, D.-I and Kedem, Z. M., "Pincer-Search: A New Algoritlnn for Discovering the Maximum Frequent Set", In Proc. of the Sixth European Conf on Extending DatabaseTechnology, 1998 12] R. Ramakrishnan, Database Management Systems University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA; International Edition 1998 pre></body></html 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


