Leadership Communication in a Virtual Team Karianne Skovolt Norwegian School of Management karianne.skovholt@bi.no Abstract This paper examines how leadership is accomplished in a virtual team.  The data consists of 400 emails from a distributed work group \(Agenda in a Norwegian tele-company. The study has primarily a discursive approach to leadership and aims at identifying what kinds of discursive devices the leader of Agenda uses to create trust and ingroup solidarity, and how she, by the linguistic form of her requests, positions her self towards her 
subordinates. The results show that the leader displays an egalitarian leader role, building personal and emotional ties and downplays her authority. By giving the group a positive loaded nick-name and creating a success story for the group, the leader invites to group identification Requests are produced as needs and hopes, and presented as a personal matter rather than an institutional obligation. While her institutional role as leader is downplayed when performing requests to her subordinates, it is explicitly fore grounded when performing requests to external partners 1 Introduction Leadership is primarily accomplished through communication. It involves managing many types 
of oral and written communication genres and thus requires good communication skills. Doing leadership is communication. To be a leader in the Internet Age, additionally involves managing groups of people in virtual teams by use of written communication technologies, for instances email This requires new forms of communication skills However, very few studies address how virtual leadership is actually accomplished [6, 2, 14  This article examines how a leader of a distributed work group \(Agenda\ a Norwegian 
Telecommunication Company \(TCM\orms leadership using email as the primary communication tool. The study has primarily a discursive approach to leadership, i.e. examining leadership as it is practically unfolded through written discourse [18, 7, 20, 14 ith in th e f r a m e  of interactional sociolinguistics, the study analyzes how leadership is linguistically accomplished in the leaderês day-to-day email interaction with her subordinates. The main goal is to find out what kind of discursive devices the leader uses to engage coordinate and maintain group performance in the 
virtual team. In terms of politeness theory, the study also examines how the leader by performing requests is positioning her self towards the group 1.1 Defining leadership Leadership is a complex concept which has been examined from many perspectives and across different disciplines. Moreover, to be a leader does not represent one single phenomenon, rather there may be many differences among individuals in leadership styl t of t h e stu d ie s on leadership have been carried out within the field of organizational science. Within this field, leadership 
has traditionally been defined as çthe ability to influence othersé in relation to çthe achievement of a common go T h e prev iou s s t u d ies o n  leadership have in general been preoccupied with evaluating good and effective leadership and attempting to identify factors that influence the success and efficiency of leadersh  Furthermore, the traditiona l leadership theories have viewed leadership from idealized characteristics and tend to see leadership as a phenomenon embodied in persons In th e present study, leadership is defined as a discursive 
phenomenon involving a personês communicative skills Rather than analyzing leadership as a predefined phenomenon, the present study analyzes leadership as it happensé [14 d v i e w s leadership as a phenomenon which is practically and repeatedly achieved in particular discourses by and through language use. This view corresponds with a project within interactional sociolinguistic called çLanguage in the Workplaceé. Scholars within this project define leadership as a communicative performance 
Leadership is a  con s i s t e n t  communicative performance which, by influencing others, facilitates acceptable outcomes for the organization transactional/task-oriented goal\nd which maintains harmony within the team or community of practice Holmes 2005:1780 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


According to Holmesês definition, leadership is seen as a process, or an activity. With her words the focus is on the çinterpersonal interaction processes and the communication which takes place between people, rather than simply on what a leader achieves s a practical con s equ e n ce of the  definition above, analyses of leadership include close reading of leaders actual spoken and written exchanges. In the present article, this primarily involves the Agenda-leaderês day-to-day email interaction with her group members, in addition to some of her external partners 1.2 Defining virtual team A virtual team is a group of people who collaborate across space, time, and organizational boundaries and use electronic media as primary communication tool. Virtual teams are often composed by domain experts from multiple organizations or departments within an organization 6, 34 al team s  m a y t a k e  m a ny  f o r m s 6 They may be local and include members who frequently meet face-to-face, or they may be global and include members that never or seldom meet  a l tea m s  m a y be pe r m an e n t, or f l u i d [27 Moreover, they may be coordinated by a formally appointed leader, or they may be self-directed, i.e groups of interdependent individuals that can selfregulate their behaviours on relatively whole tasks   Leading a virtual team involves other possibilities and challenges than leading traditional co-located groups. On the one hand, the creation of distributed groups provides organizations the possibility to draw on professional competence that would otherwise not be available. On the other hand, when group members are dispersed, it is more difficult to create relationships and establish a shared common ground [11, 12 T h eref ore  according to literature, bu ilding socio-emotional relations and trust among team members are crucial in virtual team work [6, 21, 22, 23  2 Previous research on leadership discourse Relatively little is known about how leadership is actually carried out in computer-mediated conversation [6  Ho w e ve r  a fe w st ud ie s ha v e  made studies on leadership face-to-face conversations While several studies in Conversation Analysis \(CA\ have focused on expert-lay communication l y a  v e r y  f e w studies have explored leader-subordinate interaction  W ith in I n teraction a l Socioli n g u i stics   researchers in the project called çLanguage in the Workplaceé have conducted several studies on leadership conversations [19, 20, 32 T h es e previous studies on leadership conversation establish useful background knowledge for the present study on virtual leadership How leadership is carried out in virtual teams have primarily been studied in organizational studies. These either address emergent leadership  plore leaders h ip as a pre-f or m u lated  position, presenting assumptions on how virtual leadership ideally should be accomplish  what follows, the most relevant research from both conversational studies and organizational studies are reviewed 2.1 Leadership discourse Scholars from the çLanguage in the Workplaceé Ö project analyze leadership conversations predominantly with reference to gender differences and, moreover, to how power is enacted in leadership discourse [19, 20, 26, 32 The studies in their project use examples from interactions recorded in a number of New Zealand workplaces. In general, their analyses seem to agree that there exist a çconsensus view po w e r i n  the workplaces. There seems to be a tendency towards minimizing power differences in the interactions between individuals of different status between leaders and their subordinates. This is done by using different types of positive politeness strategies, in order to mitigate the repressive content of an utterance. One such strategy is the use of humor. Inspired by the Language in the Workplace project, the sociolinguist, Mullany 2004\hows how leaders use humor as a linguistic strategy to hide the use of power when attempting to gain compliance from subordinates in business meetings. By using humor, the meeting chair disguises the oppressive intent of their messages and minimizes the status differences Power may also overtly be expressed in leaderês talk, as explored in Vine \(2004\. She focuses on the overt expression of power in management style. By combining a quantitative and qualitative method, Vine shows how leaders çdo poweré in the workplace. Drawing on speech act theory, Vine \(2004\tifies and counts what she calls the çcontrol actsé in the data \(mainly directives, requests and advices\ccording to the author, previous studies on peopleês perception of control acts and which forms \(imperatives declaratives, interrogatives\re appropriate to use show that émore powerful people are seen as having the right to use direct forms such as imperatives T h e au th or th us ex pect s to f i n d a  preponderance of forceful forms \(imperatives\n the data. The imperative is considered to be a very forceful way of giving a directive, while the use of an interrogative is considered to be the least forceful. The results showed that only 7% of the control acts were directed at the two leaders, while Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


93% of the control acts were identified in the managersê speech. In other words, managers perform requests in a far more extent than subordinates do. Furthermore, the directive head acts were expressed as imperatives, interrogatives and declaratives. However, imperatives account for 28% of the head acts. The largest proportion is expressed as declaratives Vineês results indicate that leaders favor request forms which are less powerful. By using politeness theory, she shows the ways that leaders in this workplace mark or minimize power differences when performing requests. Control acts were in general mitigated and Vine \(2004\inds that communicating and maintaining good relations with people play key roles in this work Of great interest for the present study, Vine \(2004 concludes that the leaders çuse a range of forms to express control acts and always use mitigation. The power relations between the Managers and their staff is evident in the number of control acts uttered to them, but is not necessarily apparent in the way these are realised  y emphasis The studies from the çLanguage in the Workplaceé project show leaders which tend to minimize power differences. While the power is enacted explicitly through frequent requests, these requests have a linguistic form which mitigates the power of the request 2.2 Leadership in virtual teams While the New Zealand project examines leadership conversation, the present study investigates leadership performed through email Within the research on virtual teams and virtual leadership, only a handful of studies examine what leaders actually do through email discourse However, none of these examine leadership discourse within a linguistic framework Many scholars have paid attention to the role that trust plays for the success of virtual teams [21 22, 34 a m ple, in a s t u d y on  tru st i n g l obal  collaborative student groups, Jarvenpaa and Leidner 1999\ combine statistical/quantitative \(surveys with questions of trust\nd qualitative methods naturally occurring emails\ in order to find out whether or not trust exists. Jarvenpaa and Leidner 1999\ound that initiative strengthened and unified the team, but that providing response was even more important. According to Jarvenpaa and Leidner \(1999\ponse is a trusted behaviour because it signals involvement. In addition communication around tasks and project also appears to be necessary to maintain trust. Social communication that compliments, not substitutes task communication, may strengthen trust and members have to explicitly verbalize their commitment, excitement and optimism Similar results as in Jarvenpaa and Leidner \(1999 were found in Iacano and Weisbandês \(1997 investigation on trust [21  I n a stud y o n e m er ge n t  leadership in a self directed virtual team, Yoo Alavi \(2004\ found that emergent leaders produce more e-mails, take more initiatives, and provide more socio-emotional support and feedback than other members ce, th e s t u d ies o n virtu a l  teams seem in general to agree that trust may be created by both task related messages in combination with explicitly verbalizing socioemotional relations Even if the scholars above base their findings on actual email discourse doing virtual leadership is not an issue in itself. Scholars which do involve virtual leadership are Bell and Kozlowski \(2002 They have developed a typology of virtual teams in order to draw implications for virtual leadership However, their typology is not based on actual instances of email interaction, but on traditional models of leadership functions, i.e. normative models which identify general leadership functions which need to be accomplished in all teams According to Bell and Kozlowski \(2002\e two major functions of leadership are team development the development and shaping of team-processes and performance management the monitoring and management of ongoing team performance and progress toward task accomplishment T h e  challenge for virtual leaders is to duplicate these functional roles into the virtual/distributed environmen The leader of a virtual team may have various challenges, dependent on the characteristics of the team. Bell and Kozlowski \(2002\ outline four general implications virtual teams may have for its leadership. Firstly, they suggest that teams operating in real time make it easier for the leader to perform çcritical performance management functionsé and çdevelopment functions compared with teams operating across time Second, when teams cross institutional and cultural boundaries, often having different values and different set of work procedures, it is more difficult for the leader to create coherence, or link the employees together çso that they are èinsidersê in the teamé. This can be accomplished by building a unique çthirdé cultur h ird, it is m o re di f f icu l t  for leader to establish norms in virtual teams with a more discrete lifecycle, than in teams they have been together with longer. Finally, a leaderês management becomes difficult when team members hold multiple roles within and across different virtual teams. To counteract role conflicts, leaders need to clearly specify each memberês role in the team Whereas Bell and Kozlowskiês leadership functions outlines normative expectations to leadership, the current study aims at examining leadership as it is practically unfolded through email discourse. Bell and Kozlowskiês emphasis on Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


creating coherence and a çthird cultureé seems relevant for the present study Since none of the previous studies on leadership investigate leadership as it is actually displayed through computer-mediated interaction there seems to be a need for descriptive and qualitative work on virtual teams with an explicit focus on the discursive processes involved [2, 5, 6  ce, th e pres en t s t u d y  s eeks to an s w er  1 How is leadership carried out linguistically through email interaction In order to answer this question, this study focuses on email interaction in one particular group Agenda, addressing the following research questions 2 How does the leader of Agenda promote in-group solidarity 3 How does the leader of Agenda position herself vis-‡-vis her subordinates 3 Data and methods 3.1 Data The data for this study are emails collected from a distributed project group called çAgendaé in a Norwegian telecompany, çTelecomé \(TCM\he leader of this group is called Line Myhre \(LM 1  and she is the person whose discourse is being analyzed. The email exchanges were gathered from August 2004 to December 2004 and amount to approximately 700 emails, of which 300 contain incopied recipients. The messages were collected with assistance from the Agenda members, who during the period continuously forwarded their exchanges to the researchers Agenda's main task is to edit all confirmation letters that are distributed to customers in the private market. The members formulate, revise, and standardize letters and templates, with the purpose of giving all letters a uniform style that communicates in a clear and polite way to the customers. They are frequently contacted by various divisions in the company with requests to reformulate their letters. In order to give the letters a unified tone, they follow a set of guidelines concerning orthography, sentence structure, and style. The leader frequently invite to meetings and The project group consists of 12 members each representing a team from the different divisions of the company Telephony BH/BM ADSL SV Dial-up LÿB/EE Mobile JOB Customer Service GO Credit LL; and Invoice JE 1 All the names on persons, groups and departments in the data are replaced by pseudonyms  In addition, Agenda includes text designer MM system operator GJ, and an observer and system operator from another division, AS. The manager of the project group is LM, and she in turn reports to AL, the Information Director of TCM Private The membersê initials and affiliation to the group is presented in the overview in table \(1\below AL Information director LM Assigned leader of AG MM Text designer GJ System responsible implementing letters AS System responsible AGês homepage, Internet SV Dial-up-letters BH AGês mailbox Telephone-letters JO Mobile-letters BM Telephone-letters EE ADSL-letters GO CS \(Custumer Service Table 1. Overview of the members in Agenda \(AG The Agenda group reorganized twice during the period data was collected. LÿB was replaced by EE in the first week and BH was replaced by BM by the end of the data-collection period. Except from these changes, the rest of the members were more or less\e in the group for the whole period The senders and recipients of the messages are primarily Agenda members. Some messages also include group externals who collaborate closely with Agenda. Most of the members in Agenda are physically located in different departments and even in different parts of Norway. They have occasional meetings at the main office, but most of their communication is carried out by email and telephone. The members usually interact in dyads sometimes with selected co-members copied in, and seldom address the group as a whole. Some members are more active than others, for instance text designer MM, manager LM, and the system operators GJ and TS. Yet all of the members are represented in the data. The members also interact with external collaborators within and outside of TCM, such as employees at the print central StrÂlfors' and members of Agenda Business In addition to the email collection, extensive ethnographic and interview data were collected in order to contextualize the communicative practices The emails were originally written in Norwegian but are translated into English here. The translations are idiomatic, rather than word-by-word, in order to keep the style as authentic as possible 3.2 Methods The research questions springs from a theoretical assumption which views language usage as a basic component of what social relations are made of Within the frame of politeness theory al y z i ng language usage coincides with discovering how social relations are constructed. In order to build a Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


universal model of how social relations are constructed linguistically, Brown & Levinson 1987\ilds their theory on Goffmanês \(1967 notion of face our public self image when participating in A ccordin g to  Brown & Levinson \(1987\l rational agents have two particular wants; the want to be unimpeded, a negative face and the want to be approved of, a positive face 8 s o c i al in teraction t h e  participants share a mutual interest of maintaining each otherês face. However, acts which threaten face, as for instance performing a request, are called face-threatening-actsê \(FTA\hen a speaker needs to perform an FTA, she may use one of five different strategies. She may perform the FTA directly without redressive action \(Strategy 1 going baldly on record. Ex.: çReformulate the letteré\he may perform the FTA with compensation, by using either positive \(Strategy 2 Ex.: çYou are doing an excellent work, but would you please reformulate the letteré\ or negative Strategy 3. Ex.: éI know you are busy, but could you pls reformulate the letteré\ess strategies The speaker may choose to perform the FTA indirectly \(Strategy 4 - off record. Ex.: çThe letter needs some justificationsé\imply avoid doing the FTA \(Strategy 5 By éredressive actioné Brown and Levinson 1987\ean çaction that égives faceé to the addressee. This is action that attempts to counteract the potential face damage of the FTA by doing it in such way \(É\çthat indicates clearly that no such face threat is intended or desired, and that S speak g e n e ral recogn i zes H s h earer] f ace  wants and himself wants them to be achievedé [8   A request is a speech act expecting a response in the form of a verbal- or a physical act \(Searle 1969\ an expression of the speakerês need to get the hearer/reader to act. According to Brown Levinson \(1987\peakers assess the seriousness weightinessé\ of an FTA. This involves assessing the social distance between the participants, the relative power and the ranking of the imposition in the particular cultu h e g r eater th e i m po sitio n of a request is, the more the individual need to compensate for the FTA, using politeness strategies to minimize the threat In work place interaction, where the participantês institutional roles and the organizationês need are in the foreground complying with requests is more or less part of employeesê job description. According to the business communication researcher, Kankaanranta 2005 The ranking of impositions within a company is affected by the job descriptions of the participants; for an outsider an imposition may seem heavy but if it is part of a staff membersê job description to do it or if the staff member has a legitimate right to presuppose it done, then requests involving the imposition will be handled as routineé \(Kankaanranta 2005, p. 111 Depending on the employeesê position, they have a legitimate right to make requests or comply with requests. Hence, giving requests is a part of the routine, and will be treated as the routine However, the linguistic realization of the request provides interesting information about the social distance between the participants. Correspondingly the linguistic realizations of the Agenda leaderês requests in the present study may signal how she positions her self vis-·-vis her subordinates Brown & Levinsonês politeness theory has been criticized in numerous articles, for instance for being unable to account for the multifunctionality of linguistic strategie n d f o r ig n o ri n g i n ter cultural differences on politeness T h e presen t  study takes an interactional approach to politeness   In order to examine how the leader of Agenda linguistically accomplishes her leadership role, I copied her emails \(n=99\d placed them in a word document. In order to answer the first sub question how she promotes in-group solidarity, I close-read all her messages and looked for linguistic markers contextualization cues\nformal and personal style. These cues included addressing devices metaphors and personal expressions of engagement In order to examine the second sub question, how the leader positions her self in relation to the group I identified the leaderês politeness strategies when making requests 4 Analysis 4.1 Promoting in-group solidarity The Agenda-leader uses an informal, personal and emotional style in most of her messages to the team. This may be seen in how she addresses the group as a whole, how she creates narrative schemas for the group to identify with, and in how she performs requests When posting messages to the whole Agendagroup, the leader addresses the members by using positive loaded nick names 1 Hi all Letterenthusiasts  2 Arvid could you let me have our BI-guestês e-mail address Hei alle Breventusiaster Arvid, kan du gi meg mailadressen til vÂr BIgjest 2 Bald faces are added to focus on words or expressions which are emphasized in the analysis Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


2 Hi Agendaes and especially welcome to Elisabeth, our new member from Internet who will attend the first hour Hei Agendaere og spesielt hjertelig velkommen til Elisabeth vÂrt nye medlem fra Internett, som vil stille i den f¯rste timen In \(1\d \(2\ the leader addresses her group by giving them characterizing nick-names \(çHi all letter-enthusiastsé, Hi çAgendaesé\he nicknames function as attributive categorization devices. By selecting these words the sender creates a category which serves to characterize, include and even complimenting the receivers. Alternatively the leader could have selected more neutral greetings, such as for instance çHié, çTo all members of Agendaé, çDear Agenda-members etc., in order to signal more distance. Assigning her group positive characteristics in the salutations signals liking, solidarity and contributes to creating a picture of a unified and well-functioning group The addressing devices function as closeness strategies which invite to group belonging and a positive identification with a community The Agenda-leader uses additional rhetorical resources to create an attractive image of the group In the communication with text-designer information director and the group as a whole, the leader uses a certain metaphor. From the start of its existence, Agenda has pursued a central role in the different divisions of Telecom, so that more employees may benefit from their letter services and linguistic/stylistic expertise. To promote her work group, the leader introduces Agenda for different divisions in the company, a project which she calls the çblessing-roundé and the çblessingjourneyé in her messages to the group 3 Hi Maria, I just came from the blessing round at CS and told about us AgendaPrivate Hei Maria, nÂ har jeg akkurat vÊrt i signingsrunde hos KS og fortalt om oss AgendaPrivat 4 Hi all of you  I would like us to go through some bullet points from the agenda before we move on to the worklist Status from the blessing journey by Line Hei alle sammen  Jeg har lyst til at vi tar noen punkter f¯r vi tar APlisten Status fra signingsferden v/ Line The metaphors çblessing roundé and çblessing journeyé, which the leader LM humorously uses in example \(3\nd \(4\ an inter-textual reference to the Norwegian royal couple and their blessing journey in the monarchy of Norway in order to get the peopleês blessing. By drawing a parallel between Agendas presentation project and the royal blessing journey, the leader places her group members into a narrative scheme, where the groupês position in the organization appears as much as important as the royals. By playing with a in Norwegian context\ well known narrative schema, she may contribute to building a success story which the participants may mirror themselves in. The Agenda leader even presents this project as to çsell iné Agenda to different divisions 5  I leave for a meeting now, but be back from 3PM I am going to sell AgendaPrivate to the Marketing Division to day With best regards Line Myhre  Jeg gÂr i m¯te nÂ, men tilbake etter 15 Skal selge inn Brevforum Privat i Markedskommunikasjon idag Med vennlig hilsen Line Myhre By using metaphors from the finance and marked economic world, she presents Agenda as a valuable product which may be sold. By using this rhetoric she utterly presents Agenda as an attractive group The Agenda-leader informs her group of their results and how their work is getting evaluated by the top managers. She also congratulates them explicitly when they have achieved good results 6 Hi all participants of Agenda Read Benteês info this month and read it thoroughly because we in Agenda are mentioned Congratulatio ns on the good work and keep it up; we have focus from the top rgds Line Hei alle deltagere i Agenda! Les Bentes info denne mÂneden og les den godt for vi i Brevforum er nevnt Gratulere r med god jobbing og stÂ p vi har fokus fra toppen  mvh Line 7 Hi all AGP-es whom I scared to death last weekÉ. I have calmed down now; not so hyper without medicines anymore BUT the Hei alle AGP'ere som jeg skremte vettet av i forrige m¯te.... Jeg har nÂ roet meg ned; ikke fullt sÂ hyper uten medisiner lenger Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


focus from the directors is still strong so just keep it up MEN fokuset er fortsatt sterkt fra ledelsen sÂ her er det bare Â stÂ p In \(6\d \(7\e leader tells her group that they draw attention from the top, and simultaneously encourages the group to work hard. TCM is a large multinational corporation with approximately 1100 employees in Norway. The distance between the top management and employees is great, and in this context there might be a strong competition in drawing attention from the leaders, and to be noticed and appreciated as an employee. When the Agenda-leader repeatedly stresses that the Agendagroup has focus from the top, and even congratulates them, she is creating a picture of Agenda as a unique group, with great importance and value for the company. This might in itself serve as a rhetoric device to motivate the group and create stronger inside-relations The next section \(4.2\tifies how the leader is positioning herself vis-·-vis her subordinates Quantifications made in a forthcoming study of the Agenda-group showed that the Agenda-leader in sum sent the most messages in the group, and that her dominating speech acts were requests Hence, a great part of the leaderês work consists of telling others to do something. According to politeness theory k i n g so m e on e to do something is a face-threatening act \(FTA\he analysis examines how the Agenda leader linguistically presents the request. To which extent does she mitigate the requests by using positive or negative politeness? What does the linguistic form of her requests signal about the position the leader is taking towards her subordinates 4.2 The leader positioning herself vis-·-vis subordinates The Agenda leader performs requests by using positive politeness strategies \(strategy 2\ in most of her requests to her team members. She compensate for the FTA by presenting the request as wishes and hopes, rather than commands. The constructions that are most frequent are çI need help from you toé, çHope you have/cané and çnice if 8 I need help from you concerning the budgets of letters, internet and m  Jeg trenger hjelp fra dere vedr dagens budsjetter for brev fastnett, internett og mob  9 Hope it is possible for you to con HÂper du har mulighet til ta kontakt    10 Hope you may respond within Wednesday at 4PM HÂper dere kan svare innen onsdag kl 1600 11  t it is nice if you send me your comments on email Ö progression is importan  men det er fint om du sender meg innspillene pÂ mail - viktig at vi kommer videre The Agenda-leaderês requests are formulated as a declaratives, rather than interrogatives or imperatives. Furthermore, the requests are formulated as needs, hopes and wishes. She expresses her self in psychological terms \(wish and hopes\er than in normative ones \(obligation By presenting the requests as a need for help, a wish or a hope the leader presents the request as a personal wish rather than an institutional obligation All in all, this contributes to downgrade her institutional role, in favor of a more personal role. Alternatively the Agenda-leader could have presented her requests in a normative way, for instance by using interrogatives and imperatives These are more explicit ways of enacting institutional power. However, by using less forceful strategies and presenting the requests as needs and hopes, the leader is presenting the requests as speech acts that need little compensation. She is optimistic, assuming that the recipients will comply with the request, something which simultaneously implies common ground and familiarity with the recipients. Instead of explicitly enacting power, the Agenda-leader downgrades her institutional role, in favor of building socio-emotional ties with her subordinates Furthermore, the Agenda leader also goes off record \(strategy 4\ performing the requests. She does not perform the request directly, but leaves it to the recipient to interpret the request out of the context or work-place routine 12 Tore, concerning our talk. Here comes the document which sums up the signatures At the bottom on the page you have an Apoint for Business and Networks Tore ref dagens samtale Her kommer dokumentet som oppsummerer dagens signaturer Nederst pÂ siden har du et APunkt for Bedrift og Networks  In example \(12\M presents a declarative to the system responsible AS. In light of the institutional context, the declarative must be interpreted as a request. An çA-pointé \(Action point\ Agenda is a task description. When system responsible receives Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


one, he knows that it is a request. By using the declarative form, the leader LM avoids presenting the request directly, and thereby she manifests less power Another indirect strategy LM uses is to perform directives laterally, through so called informatives. Statements directed to a primary recipient in an email message may function as an indirect request to secondary recipient who receives the e-mail as a copy 13 Arvid returns to you on this point L Atle kommer tilbake til deg pÂ dette punktet L In example \(13\rvid is a secondary recipient, i.e the mail is CC-ed to him. In the sentence in \(13 LM performs two speech acts, one directly to the primary recipient Ö a statement, and one indirectly directed to AL, as an indirect request. As in example \(12\e leader leaves it up to the information director to iden tify the request from the context and comply with it So far, we have seen that the Agenda-leader uses positive politeness \(strategy 2\ and indirect strategies \(strategy 4\when performing requests to the members of Agenda. However, when the Agenda-leader performs requests to, or negotiates with, partners outside of Agenda, she uses more direct strategies. These are often followed by a warrant, or are anchored in her professional role as a leader 14 Hi Lise Marit Long time no see : - \ I hope everything is okay in Steinkjer!! We in Agenda need your help to find concrete examples of smsês which we send our customers from Steinkjer Our leader in TCMP, Bente Knudsen, requested an overview of the sms-texts. Will you  Thanks in advance Rgds Line Hei Lise Marit lenge siden sist:-\ HÂper alt stÂr bra til i Steinkjer Vi i Brevforum trenger din hjelp  eller andre ipÂ KS i Steinkjer - for Â finne konkrete eksempler som vi sender til kundene vÂre pÂ sms fra Steinkjer VÂr leder i Privat, Bente Knudsen har bedt oss i AgendaPrivat om Â f en oversikt p eksempler pÂ sms'er Kan du  PÂ forhÂnd takk for hjelpen mvh Lise 15 Hi Katrine In Agenda we have for Hei  Katrine I  Agenda har vi jobbet a long while worked with signatures from Benteês wish and created a document for signatures in letters from TCMP See attached docum Can we   Thanks in advance Rgds Line lenge med signaturer etter Bentes ¯nske og kommet opp med et samledokument for signaturer i brev fra TCM Privat.  Se vedlagte dokument Kan vi gj¯re dette uten videre eller mÂ vi  s¯ke PT om aksept for forslaget PÂ forhÂnd takk for hjelpen mvh Line 16 Hi Stein! Thanks for info about a very good service As leader of AgendaPrivate I have some comments/quest  Concerning Per Haraldês title it is decided in Bente Knudsens meeting that the title is d it is  nice if the title could be changed to this in your letter Rgds Line Hei Stein! takk for info om en meget bra tjeneste Som leder i AgendaPrivat har jeg noen kommentarer spm  NÂr det gjelder tittelen til Per Harald er det besluttet i Bente Knudsens lederm¯te at tittel er Direkt¯r Internett og det er fint om tittel endres til denne tittelen i  ditt breveksempel mvhLine 15\d \(16\e speech acts are directed to partners outside of the Agenda group The leaderês requests are more direct, or baldly on record an th e requ es t to h e r s u bordin ate s  T h e requests are formulated as interrogatives \(Will you  a n  w e  A c c o rdin g to Bro w n   Levinson \(1989\tterances as:éCan you pass the salté are indirect, but have become fully conventionalized and the FTA is no longer off record In ad dition in 16 L M ref ers to h e r ow n role as a leader, before she presents the request This is a way of providing a contextual frame of the request as well as legitimizing her right to perform requests. In \(14\d \(15\he refers to her super ordinate, Bente Knudsen, also to legitimize and ground her request. In both examples, LM explicitly addresses and makes relevant her own authority or a hierarchical position, in order to account for the request. This may be an efficient strategy to necessitate a quick response. As we shall se in the next example, the Agenda-leader also Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


makes hierarchical positions relevant in order to reject a request or solve a conflict 17 Hi Eva! thanks for your response, but in my opinion too comprehensive. Abuse is one letter that needs a better tone of voice. As you saw in the previous mail, this is a letter that is sent from Internet NOT a confirmation letter. Arvid wishes to prioritize this on behalf of TCM because we have increased bad will in this case. \(c.f. VGarticle last week   Thanks in advance for your help on behalf of the abuse-group in Internet rgds Line Hei Eva! takk for respons, men etter min mening noe omfattende Abuse er ett brev som trenger en noe bedre ordlyd. Som du sÂ i forrige mail er dette et brev som gÂr ut fra Internett og  IKKE et bekreftelsesbrev. Arvid nsker Â prioritere dette h¯yt pÂ vegne av TCM da vi har h¯y badwill p dette omrÂdet. \( ref VG artikkel i forrige uke  PÂ forhÂnd takk for hjelpen pÂ vegne av abusegruppen i Internett mvh Lise In a previous mail, Line was criticized by a colleague in another department, Eva Engseth. Eva Engseth complained to Line that she has assigned new tasks to text designer Maria Monsen without consulting her \(as MMês leader\d presenting information about the activity. Moreover, Engseth performs a whole range of requests to Line Myhre In \(17\ Line Myhre rejects Eva Engseths requests indirectly, firstly by producing a dispreffered response \(thanks for your response, but  secondly by giving an account \(Abuse is one letter that needs a better tone of voice\d finally by a change in footing qu oting th e inf o r m a tion director, Arvid Lervikês point of view \(èArvid wishes to prioritize thisê\d Telecomês interests on behalf of Telecomê\Rejecting complaints and denying complying with requests are FTAês. In \(17 Line Myhre performs her rejection to Eva Engseth on record, directly, and with very little politeness work.  By underscoring words \(ett brev/one letter and even using capital letters \(NOT\e emphasizes the propositional content and signals strong emotional involvement and authority. By continuing with grounding her rejection in Arvid Lerviks role as superordinate, and even copying him in, she shows that she has Lervik on her side This strengthens her authority and makes it difficult for Engseth to reject the decision 5 Discussion 5.1 Summary The analysis of the Agenda-leaders communicative actions showed that she uses different discursive devices in in-group and out-group communication When writing messages to the Agenda-group, she mostly uses an informal style and does not make explicit relevant leadership categorizations Requests are performed with positive politeness strategies \(closeness strategies and indirect strategies\gnaling a socio-emotional, personal relationship with her subordinates. On the contrary when writing messages to out-group partners, the leader uses a more formal style and makes hierarchical categories relevant. Requests are performed with direct strategies, grounded in her position as a leader or with reference to her superordinateês wishes The Agenda leader predominantly uses a rhetoric which creates a positive and attractive image of the group. The analysis identified three devices which contribute to build up the groupês image. First, by using addressing devices and positive loaded nick-names she compliments \(and categorizes\e members and invites them to identify with the picture/category she presents Second, the leader makes use of metaphors as narrating devices. Metaphors as çblessing journey and çblessing roundé contribute to creating a picture of the team as main characters in a successstory. In addition, by using metaphors from economics \(to sell in Agenda\e leader compares Agenda with a valuable product. Finally, the Agenda leader provides feedback to the group by informing that they have attention from the topleaders. To have the top-leaders attention may signal that the groupês work really is making a difference in the huge company. Providing this information may be a performance management device h ic h m i gh t serv e t o  stren gth e n  relatio n s  inside the team. In sum, the rhetorical devices which the Agenda-leader uses in her in-group communication contribute to creating a positive image of the group. She presents the group as being enthusiastic about their work and as being valuable for the company, something which may invite to group identification, establish involvement, trust and maybe increased participation Despite that all the members of this distributed group belong to different departments, and in addition other distributed work groups in the company as well, it seems that the leader manages to create an image of Agenda as a unique group. It may even be associated with what Bell and Kozlowski refer to as ça third cultur   However, to confirm this, the groupês actual perceptions of being members of the group need to be examined through interviews. This has not been the purpose in the present study. A great part of the leaderês messages to the group are requests. When Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


she performs requests, she does not explicitly make her role as the leader explicitly relevant. Rather, she compensate for the request by using positive politeness strategies. This corresponds with Mullany \(2004\d the findings in the çLanguage in the Workplace projecté [20, 26 By  u s i ng closeness strategies, the Agenda-leader presupposes common ground and familiarity, something which makes her appear as an egalitarian leader who trusts her team members and encourages them to act independently Despite the fact that the leader of Agenda by linguistic form appears as egalitarian and present in in-group communication she constitutes herself more as an authority towards externally co-workers When writing messages to out-group partners, she tends to use a more formal style. When performing requests, she uses more direct strategies and ground the requesting acts in her position as a leader, or refers to super-ordinates. By referring to hierarchical roles, she is making power categories overtly relevant. This may be an effective device to pursue a quick compliance to a request. Second, the Agenda-leader makes hierarchical categories explicitly relevant when managing conflicts This study has primarily shown that the Agenda-leader does not make hierarchical categories relevant when writing messages to the team-members. Her authority is downplayed, or back grounded, in favor of an emotional, personal relationship with her employees. These findings illustrate Fairhurstês point that hierarchy categorizations often are unspok h e Agenda-leader Line Myhre does not need to explicitly qualify herself as a leader each time she posts a request. Her appointed role as the leader of Agenda gives her an exclusive right to perform requests and the members are obliged to comply. In addition, the institutional role is enacted implicitly by the rhetorical devices identified in this study Her leadership role is constituted by and through the actions which she performs. Evaluating motivating and requesting are leadership actions 36  W h e n Li ne M yhr e p o s ts me ssa ge s to o u t group co-workers, she does not have the same exclusive right, or can not take for granted that the recipients will comply with her requests, since she is not their leader. Therefore, the requests need to be grounded in her institu tional role, or anchored in her super-ordinateês wish 5.2 Doing leadership is building trust The leadership carried out in Agenda seems to a great extent to be grounded on trust. In the present article, this has been exemplified by the addressing devices, the nick names, and the leaderês use of positive politeness when performing requests A characteristic of virtual teams and computermediated networks is that çboundaries are permeable, interactions are with diverse others connections switch between multiple networks, and hierarchies can be flatter and recursive \(É\he community exists more in the informal networks than predefined work-groups. Rather than fitting into the same group as those around them, each person has his/her own çpersonal communityé [37   Wellman \(2001\ers to this phenomenon as networked individualism ris k  w i t h t h e  networked individualism is that the social life at the work place may be fragmented, and that no one fully knows each other Where person-to person community is individualizing, role-to-role community deconstructs a holistic individual identity A person becomes only the sum of her roles, and there is the danger of alienation The compartmentalization of personal life within the household and within the community Ö may create an insecure milieu where no one fully knows anyone Wellman 2001:17 The leadership practices carried out in Agenda which is grounded on trust, may demonstrate an attempt to reduce these risks As mentioned in the review, one of the challenges for leaders of virtual teams is to duplicate the two key functional leader roles to the virtual team \(team development and performance management\ According to Bell and Kozlowski [6  this includes the leaders need to çclosely monitor any changes in environmental conditions Additionally it includes to motivating team members to çcommit strongly to the overall team effort and need to facilitate team coherence especially under high intensity conditionsé. In virtual teams, as in Agenda where people only rarely meet face-to-face, these functions are challenged. However, the leader seems to attempt to create a positive climate in the group, both by rhetorical devices as giving the group a nick-name and by providing receipts and acknowledgements in third position responses. These characteristics belong to the team-development function addition, arranging regular face to face meetings belongs to the performance management function Conclusively, the leader seems to duplicate both of the important leader functions Computer-mediated communication provides great opportunity for leaders to send out important information, request and monitor their members Even though the team-members are physically distant, the technology facilitates constraint-free communication and çhyperconnectivityé, i.e. çthe availability for people to communicate anywhere and anytim ai l  m a y f o s t er s o cial  presence in a greater extent than face-to-face, in the sense that e-mail messages are persistent and thus Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


having more pervasive force. This makes it possible for leaders to appear powerful, even on a distance Interestingly, with respect of the amounts of messages, the reminders and extent of feedback [29  e A g e n da leader appears as a po w e rfu l  leader, displaying her hierarchical position in the group. Simultaneously, her methods of creating in group solidarity and performing requests, shows that her institutional role is back grounded as she enacts egalitarian leadership building socioemotional ties within the team 6. References 1 A runda le R 1 9 99  A n a lte rna tiv e m ode l a nd ideology of communication for an alternative to politeness theory Pragmatics Vol.9, No.1, pp. 119-153  2 A huja M.K a n d K  M. C a rley 1998 N e t w o rk Structure in Virtual Organizations Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 3\(4 3 A r m i ne n, I   2005  Institutional interaction: Studies of talk at work Aldershot, UK: Ashgate 4 A s m u B. \(forthcoming\erformance appraisals Preference organization in assessment sequences Journal of Business Communication 5 A s m u B., and J. Svennevig, \(forthcoming Analyzing workplace interactionsé, [Special Issu  Journal of Business communication  6 Be ll, B. S., a nd S.W J K o z l ow s k i \(2002 A  Typology of Virtual Teams Implications for Effective Leadership Group and Organization Management Vol 27, No. 1, pp. 14-49 7 B ode n, D   1 99 4  The Business of Talk Organizations in Action Cambridge: Polity Press 8 B r ow n P a n d S.C  L e v i ns on 1 9 87  Politeness Some Universals in Language Usage Cambridge Cambridge University Press 9 Clif ton J  2 00 6 A Conv e r s a tion A n a l y tic a l  Approach to Business Communication: the Case of Leadership Journal of Business Communication 43\(3 pp. 202-219 10 Co he n, S.G a nd G  E L e d f ord. \(19 94  T he Effectiveness of Self-Managing Teams: A QuasiExperiment Human Relations 47\ pp. 13-43 11 C r a m ton, C  D  20 01   The Mutual Knowledge Problem and Its Consequences for Dispersed Collaboration Organization Science Vol. 12, No. 3 May-June 2001, pp. 346-371 12 D u a r te D  L a n d N  T  S n y d e r 2006  Mastering Virtual Teams: Strategies, Tools, and Techniques that Succeed San Francisco, Calif.: Jossey-Bass 13 D r e w P  a nd J  H e rita g e e ds  19 92  Talk at Work. Interaction in Institutional Settings Cambridge Cambridge University Press 14 Fa irh urs t, G  2007 Discursive Leadership. In Conversation with Leaderhip Psychology Los Angeles Sage Publications 15 G o ffm an E. \(1 9 6 7   Interaction Ritual: Essays on Face to Face Behaviour Garden City, New York Doubleday 16 G o f f m a n, E. \(1 98 1 F oo ti ng   in Forms of Talk Oxford: Blackwell, pp. 124-157 1 Haw ish er G  E., an d C. Mo ran 1 99 3 n i c  mail and the writing instructoré. College English, 55 \(6 pp. 627-643 18 Heritag e, J. \(1 9 8 4  Garfinkel and Ethnomethodology Cambridge; New York: Polity Press 1 H o lm es, J. \(2 0 0 5  L ead ersh ip  talk: Ho w d o lead ers do mentoringê and is gender relevant Journal of Pragmatics 37\, pp. 1779-1800 20 H o lm e s J a nd M. Ma rra  200 4 L e a d e r s hip a nd managing conflict in meetings Pragmatics 14, pp. 439462 21 Ia c o n o C.S a nd S P. W e is ba nd \(19 97  Developing Trust in Virtual Teams Proceedings of the Thirtieth Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Vol. 2, Issue 7-10 Jan. Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society Press, pp. 412 Ö 420 22 J a rv e npa a  S.L a nd D  E. L e idne r \(199 9 Communication and Trust in Global Virtual Teams Organization Science Vol 10\(6\1-815 23 J u ls rud T  E. a nd J  W  Ba k k e 2007  B uil ding trus t in  networked environments: understanding the importance of trust brokersé, in L. Brennan and V. Johnson \(Eds Computer-mediated relationships and trust: organizational and managerial effects Hershey PA: Idea Group Publ 24 K a nk a a n ra nta A  200 5 Hej Seppo, Could you pls comment on this!" - Internal Email Communication in Lingua Franca English in a Multinational Company PhD dissertation, University of Jyv‰skyl‰, Centre for Applied Language Studies 25 Mills S. \(20 02  R e t hink ing  P o li te ne ss Impoliteness and Gender Identityé, in Litosseliti, L. and J. Sunderland \(eds Gender, Identity and Discourse Analysis Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 69-89 26 Mu lla ny  L  2004  G e nde r, pol ite ne s s a nd institutional power roles: Humour as tactic to gain compliance in workplace business meetings Multilingua 23\ Walter de Gruyter, pp. 13-37 27 Sa u nde rs C.S. \(2 00 0 V irt ua l T e am s  P i e c ing  Together the Puzzleé, in Zmud, R. \(ed Framing the Domains of IT Management Research: Glimpsing the Future through the Past Cincinnati: Pinnaflex, pp. 2950 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 
 


28 Sk ov hol t, K a nd J  Sv e nne v i g 2006  E m a i l  Copies in Work-place Interaction Journal of ComputerMediated Communication 12\(1\, article 3 http://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol12/issue1/skovholt.html 29 Sk ov h o lt, K   F ort h c o m i ng  R e s pons e s a nd N o nResponses in Workplace Emailsé, in: S. Herring, D. Stein and T. Virtanen \(eds Handbook of the Pragmatics of Computer-Mediated Communication Mouton de Gruyter 3  S k o v h o l t  K F o r th co m i n g  h a t Do es a L ead er  of a Virtual Team Do? Network Structures and Speech Act Distribution in Workplace Emailsé, in Skovholt, K forthcoming E-mail Interaction in the Workplace Phddissertation, Oslo: University of Oslo/Norwegian School of Management 3  S p iers J A  19 98  T h e Use o f F ace W o rk an d  Politeness Theory Qualitative Health Research 8, pp. 2547 32 St ub be M C. L a ne J  H ild e r E. V i ne B V i ne  M Marra, J. Holmes and A. Weatherall \(2003\Multiple Discourse Analyses of a Workplace Interaction Discourse Studies 5\(3\. London: Sage Publications, pp 351-389 3 S v enn evi g J  2 00 8   E xp l o r i n g Lead er sh i p  Conversations Management Communication Quarterly 21\(4\, pp. 529-536 34 Y o o, Y  a nd M  A l a v i \(2004  E m e r g e n t Le a d e r s h ip in Virtual Teams: What do Emergent Leaders Do Information and Organization 14, pp. 27-58 35 Q u a n H a a s e  A a n d B. W e llm a n 2006  Hyperconnected Networks: Co mputer-Mediated Community in a High-Tech Organizationé, in Heckscher, C. and P.S Adler \(eds The Firm as a Collaborative Community Reconstructing Trust in the Knowledge Economy Oxford Oxford University Press, pp. 281-333 36  Vi ne B   2 00 4  Getting Things Done at Work: The Discourse of Power in Workplace Interaction Philadelphia, USA: John Benjamins Publishing Company 3 W e llm an B. \(2 00 1   P h y s i cal P l ace and Cy b e rp lace  The Rise of Personalized Networks International Urban and Regional Research 25\(2\ pp. 227-52 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 12 
 


  13 interconnections of sub-elements 225  Keeps everyone involved by keeping accurate records of big and small picture aspects affecting the system and distributing information in advance Communicates Through Story Telling and Analogies 225  Uses personnel experiences to build conn ections and provide explanations by using engineering and non-engineering stories and analogies.  For example creates analogies from histor ical events, everyday experiences and \223life lessons\224 to better explain concepts and ideas to others 225  Shares experiences and \223lessons learned\224 with others to support future systems design Is Comfortable with Making Decisions 225  Makes decisions in a confident and timely manner when appropriate \226 with or without complete or optimal information \226 allowing team members to maintain forward progress on their assigned tasks 225  Carefully monitors the impact of deci sions on system performance, backtracking and changing direction if necessary.  When the team's forward progress is not at stake, the SE may choose to postpone decision-making and engage in more detailed analysis 225  Stays on point until ideas are heard, rec ognizes when enough data is gathered to make a decision, and then moves on. Willing to revisit decision if new data warrants it 225  Makes difficult or unpopular decisions, keeping the best interest of the system in mind, weighing the potential risks to team cohesion and interpersonal relationships against system performance  Table 9 Problem Solving and Systems Thi nking Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Identifies the Real Problem 225  Identifies the critical problem to be solved by asking questions and identifying the key requirements 225  Recognizes what is technically right among many good ideas by viewing a problem across system boundaries and co mparing each design to the other 225  Frames the problem in a logical way and identifies resources required to solve the problem efficiently 225  Solves problems with the team by listening for the issue, pinpoints problem areas makes recommendations, and then steps out.  Avoids side trips and unnecessary minutiae and focuses on important issues Assimilates Analyzes, and Synthesizes Data 225  Assimilates and distills large quantities of data and ensures all of the data is on the table to solve a problem or make a decision.  Ensures decisions made are supported with data 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters, prioritizes the parameters, then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution 225  Has the ability to rapidly recall data 225  Approaches and solves problems in a systematic manner by using tools processes, procedures in order to find solutions Thinks Systemically 225  Looks across the entire system and facilita tes trades and compromises to get a balanced design.  Ensures that the integrity of the system as a whole does not suffer because of over optimizing any of the smaller pieces 225  Sees multi-view representations of sy stems to understand how the pieces fit together and interact. Visualizes systems in 3-D. Draws a picture in his or her mind, or on paper 225  Is able to look deep enough into a problem without losing focus on the big picture.  Sees the big picture while at the same time demonstrating an overall awareness of the details 225  Breaks the problem down into smaller manageable parts 225  Understands how the system works, what it was designed to do, its functions and 


  14 requirements. Is able to analyze the systems data. Traces implications of a problem in a step-by-step manner across the system Has the Ability to Find Connections and Patterns Across the System 225  Integrates and provides a connection between the various engineering segments of the project.  Is able to identify c onnections from separate elements of the project that others would not notice and brings these connections to the team's attention as a means to assist in solving underlying issues 225  Examines and explores the implications of how technical decisions being made affect the bigger system architecture Sees the ripple effect of changing requirements or making changes to any element of the system 225  Able to see system interfaces. Identifie s the impact that changes to one subsystem are having--or might have--on other sub-systems.  Locates and corrects sub-system 'disconnects' or 'inconsistencies' that are having a negative impact on system performance Sets Priorities 225  Sets technical priorities in order to maintain the balance for the problems at hand while achieving system requirements Keeps the Focus on Mission Requirements 225  Is focused on developing a system that meets the end-item product objectives and does not lose sight of this while integr ating the pieces of the system into the whole system 225  Studies, understands, and articulates the project\222s overall objectives.  Knows what the system must do and be in order to accomplish its objectives 225  Sets technical priorities with principal investigator and subsystem engineers to achieve system requirements Possesses Creativity and Problem Solving Abilities 225  Enjoys and is energized by fully concentrating on a problem for long stretches until solutions are formed and implemented. Possesses passion for problem solving 225  Takes the initiative to solve the problems 225  Solves problems with the team by listening to the issues, pinpointing problem areas, making technical recommendations; may help implement the solution 225  Does not adhere to rigid rules or formulas for system design, but may create new ideas and approaches that are necessary to deal successfully with system constraints Validates Facts Information and Assumptions 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters.  Prioritizes the parameters then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution by examin ing system and subsystem operations in minute detail.  Recognizing that seemingly minor miscalculations can lead to signifi cant problems in system performance 225  Questions all assumptions that go into the design 225  Looks for, and anticipates, problems or issu es in the system in places that may not be covered with the right kind of data to make a decision 225  Looks for answers that may not be readily apparent from just looking at the data alone.  Does not rely solely on data Remains Open Minded and Objective 225  Receptive to hearing diverse varying opinions.  Is willi ng to re-think/re-work an issue or to change direction when new information or a better idea is presented 225  Evaluates decisions objectively.  Maintains flexibility by avoiding 'ownership' of a particular strategy or point of view Draws on Past Experiences 225  Draws from his or her hands-on experiences to develop the proper feel for succeeding on future projects, knowing when something looks "ri ght" versus "not even close\223 from past successes and failures 225  Solves problems with a balance of innovative developments and proven heritage products.  May rely on experience and ex isting design as guides, but sees each opportunity as a canvas to design new solutions 225  Uses experience, history, intuition, and se nsing in order to assess the situation and develop a solution Manages Risk 225  Uses past experiences to anticipate pot ential problems that may impact system performance 225  Identifies the key indicators and methods of testing for each type of problem 


  15 225  Develops mitigation strategi es for addressing the problems, should they arise 225  Is risk savvy. Understands that risk is perpetual and needs to be managed  Table 10 Technical Acumen Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Possesses Technical Competence and Has Comprehensive Previous Experience 225  Shares his or her project experience, a nd acts as a reliable resource to the team and serves as the \221go to\222 person 225  Demonstrates the depth of technical knowledge and expertise necessary to perform, manage, and coordinate work-related activities 225  Possesses a strong, fundamental understanding of engineering principles along with a cross-disciplinary background 225  Engages specialists for their t echnical knowledge and abilities 225  Demonstrates ability to focus on details while keeping the big picture in mind.  Is able to shift focus between the two with ease 225  Uses an iterative process to refine the design to accomplish the system requirements Learns from Successes and Failures 225  Shares with others lessons learned.  Lessons come from a strong base of engineering experiences acr oss the full life-cycle 225  Documents and studies the successes and failures of both the current and previously developed systems.  Uses this information to make decisions that reduce risk and maximize the probability of success 225  Is willing to learn from past failures as well as successes.  Understands both are important  


  16 Table 11 Myers-Briggs Type Indicator \(MBTI Mental Processes and Orientations [25 Natural energy orientation   Extraverted \(E Face is directed towards the OUTER world of activities, excitements, people, and things 200  Instinctively search for facts and logic in a decision situation 200  Act first, think/reflect later 200  Feel deprived when cutoff from interaction with the outside world 200  Usually open to and motivated by outside world of people and things 200  Enjoy wide variety and change in people relationships Intraverted \(I Face is directed inward to the INNER world of thoughts, interests, ideas, and imagination 200  Think/reflect first, then act 200  Regularly require an amount of "private time" to recharge batteries 200  Motivated internally, mind is sometimes so active it is "closed" to outside world 200  Prefer one-to-one communication and relationships Way of perceiving or understanding and taking in information  Sensing \(S The Sensing side of our brain notices the sights sounds, smells and all the sensory details of the PRESENT It categorizes, organizes, records and stores the specifics from the here and now. It is REALITY based, dealing with "what is." It also provides the specific details of memory and recollections from PAST events 200  Mentally live in the Now, attending to present opportunities 200  Using common sense and creating practical solutions is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall is rich in detail of facts and past events 200  Best improvise from past experience 200  Like clear and concrete information; dislike guessing when facts are "fuzzy Intuitive \(N The Intuitive side of our brain seeks to understand interpret and form OVERALL patterns of all the information that is collected and records these patterns and relationships. It speculates on POSSIBILITIES  including looking into and forecasting the FUTURE  It is imaginative and conceptual 200  Mentally live in the Future, attending to future possibilities 200  Using imagination and creating/inventing new possibilities is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall emphasizes patterns, contexts and connections 200  Best improvise from theoretical understanding 200  Comfortable with ambiguous, fuzzy data and with guessing its meaning Way of forming judgments and making choices and decisions  Thinking \(T The Thinking side of our brain analyzes information in a DETACHED objective fashion. It operates from factual principles, deduces and forms conclusions systematically. It is our logical nature  200  Naturally notices tasks and work to be accomplished 200  Easily able to provide an objective and critical analysis 200  Accept conflict as a natural, normal part of relationships with people Feeling \(F The Feeling side of our brain forms conclusions in an ATTACHED and somewhat global manner, based on likes/dislikes, impact on others, and human and aesthetic values. It is our subjective nature 200  Instinctively employ personal feelings and impact on people in decision situations 200  Naturally sensitive to people\222s needs and reactions 200  Naturally seek consensus and popular opinions 200  Unsettled by conflict; have almost a toxic reaction to disharmony Action orientation towards the outside world     Judging \(J A Judging style approaches the outside world WITH A PLAN and is oriented towards organizing one's surroundings, being prepared, making decisions and reaching closure and completion 200  Plan many of the details in advance before moving into action 200  Focus on task-related action; complete meaningful segments before moving on 200  Work best and avoid stress when keep ahead of deadlines 200  Naturally use targets, dates and standard routines to manage life Perceiving \(P A Perceiving style takes the outside world AS IT COMES and is adopting and adapting, flexible, openended and receptive to new opportunities and changing game plans 200  Comfortable moving into action without a plan plan on-the-go 200  Like to multitask, have variety, mix work and play 200  Naturally tolerant of time pressure; work best close to the deadlines 200  Instinctively avoid commitments which interfere with flexibility, freedom and variety 


  17 Figure 1 MBTI Types Occurring in SEs Studied Across the Agency                                    Figure 2 Preliminary MBTI Results for JPL\222s Highly Regarded Systems E\ngineers   ESFP Performer/Entertainer   ESTP Maneuverer/Promoter   ENTP Inventor/Improvisor    ENTJ Director/Commandant   ISFP Performer/Composer   ISTP Maneuverer/Operator  INTP Inventor/Designer   INTJ Foreseer/Mobilizer   ESFJ Provider/Caretaker   ESTJ Overseer/Supervisor   ENFP Proponent/Messenger   ENFJ Foreseer/Mobilizer  ISFJ Provider/Nourisher   ISTJ Overseer/Inspector   INFP Proponent/Advocate  INFJ Foreseer/Developer NF 3 NT 56 SJ 15 SP 26 SE MBTI types represented across the agency 


Investigator with the Ohio University Avionics Engineering Center.  He earned his Ph.D. from Ohio University and holds a B.S.E.E. and M.S.E.E from Delft University of Technology located in the Netherlands.  He has been involved with GPS landing systems  research, advanced signal processing techniques for GPS receivers, GPS/INS integrated systems, and terrain-referenced navigation systems.  The latter includes the development of terrain data base integrity monitors as an enabling technology for Synthetic Vision Systems and autonomous aircraft operation      pre></body></html 


           7 C ur re nt ly n ot w or ki ng 2  0 0 5  0 0 8 0 04 0 04 0 0 1 0 16  0 16             8 C ur re nt ly in e du ca tio n2   0 6 


6 7  0 01 0 1 9 0 08  0 03 0 6 8 0 0 7 0 3 2           9 C ur re nt ly w or ki ng 2  0 2 8  0 03 0 18  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 64  0 00 0 1 4 0 8 9   


        10 E du ca tio n ac hi ev ed 3  3 5 7 1 5 2  0 04 0 02 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 16  0 02 0 1 6 0 13  0 0 6         11 D is pe ns ab le in co m e   


  21 0 9 2 72 7  0 14  0 0 1 0 09  0 08  0 2 0 0 00 0 0 4 0 18  0 1 6 0 0 1        In te rn et u sa ge                     


  12 A ct iv e in te rn et u sa ge 1  0 0 2 0 9 6 0 2 1 0 25  0 11  0 12  0 10  0 0 4 0 05  0 0 8 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 12        13 H ou rs o nl in e h ou rs 


rs   2 6 5 3 0 3  0 04 0 12  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 40  0 0 7 0 0 7 0 4 7 0 5 3 0 07  0 1 1 0 07       14 W illi ng ne ss to p ay 1  1 8 3 0 6 3  0 03 0 10 


10  0 07  0 08  0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 01  0 00 0 0 5 0 14  0 04 0 05      G am e sp ec ifi c va ria bl es                      15 T en 


ur e w ee ks   2 8 2 3 5 2 0 2 6 0 31  0 0 9 0 01 0 12  0 0 4 0 02 0 0 9 0 0 9 0 07  0 02 0 13  0 08  0 0 4    16 C ro ss o ve r on o ffl in e 4  0 1 5 


5 1 1 1 0 1 9 0 11  0 13  0 18  0 2 0 0 1 4 0 0 7 0 14  0 1 1 0 0 4 0 08  0 15  0 0 5 0 01 0 07    17 S at is fa ct io n1   18 7 5 1 3 16  0 18  0 00 


00 0 44  0 52  0 1 4 0 0 3 0 02 0 07  0 0 9 0 1 4 0 10  0 08  0 0 6 0 09  0 0 1 0 13   18 C om m itm en t1  0 6 2 0 8 3 0 3 1 0 13  0 37  0 39  0 0 7 


7 0 0 6 0 02 0 03  0 0 4 0 1 3 0 14  0 17  0 0 5 0 09  0 07  0 19  0 58  S ou rc e O w n ca lc ul at io n N ot e N  1 3 89 o bs er va tio ns S ig ni fic an ce le ve ls 


ls  p  0 05 S D  S ta nd ar d de vi at io n 1 5 po in t L ik er t s ca le ra ng in g fro m 2 to 2  2 du m m y va ria bl e 3 o rd in al v ar ia bl e ra ng in g fro m v oc at io na l e du ca 


tio n to P h D 4 n um be r o f c on ta ct s   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


