Mobile Data Mini ng for Intelligent Healthcare Support   Pari Delir Haghighi, Arkady Zaslavsky, Shonali Krishnaswamy, Mohamed Medhat Gaber Center for Distributed Systems and Software Engineering Monash University, Australia pari.delirhaghighi, arkady.zaslavsky, shonali.krishnaswamy,, mohamed.gaber}@infotech.monash.edu.au    Abstract  The growth in numbers and capacity of mobile devices such as mobile phones coupled with widespread availability of inexpensive range of biosensors presents an unprecedented opportunity for mobile healthcare applications. In this paper we propose a novel 
approach for Situation-Aware Adaptive Processing SAAP\ data streams for smart and real-time analysis of data. The implementation and evaluation of the framework for a health monitoring application is described   1. Introduction  Recently, innovations in mobile communications and low-cost of wireless biosensors have paved the way for development of mobile healthcare applications that provide a convenient, safe and constant way of monitoring of vital signs of patients. A key in the provision of mobile healthcare services is the issue of using technological innovation to support continuous 
monitoring of patient conditions, providing a degree of self-diagnosis and enabling effective real-time decision making to reduce fatalities. Ubiquitous Data Stream Mining \(UDM\hniques [1 u ch as li gh t w ei gh t  one-pass data stream mining algorithms [2perform real-time analysis on-board small/mobile devices while considering available resources such as battery charge and available memory. However, to perform smart and intelligent analysis of data on mobile devices, it is imperative for adaptation strategies to factor in contextual information Contextual information can be related to a network 
application, environment, process, user or device. As a meta-level concept over context we define the notion of a situation that is inferred from contextual inform u ati o n a w are n ess prov ides applications with a more general and abstract view of their environment rather than focusing on individual pieces of context.  Situation-aware adaptive data stream mining leverages the full potential of UDM by going beyond mere available resources and can enable if not guarantee, the continuity and consistency of the running applications In real-world, situations evolve and change into 
other situations \(e.g healthy changes to hypertension anges that occur between situations are also good indicators of situations that may emerge albeit with some vagueness and uncertainty. To enable situation-awareness in mobile healthcare applications, it is important for the situation modeling and reasoning approach to represent uncertainty and vagueness associated with health-related situations Reviewing recent works in mobile healthcare reveals that most of these projects [5a v e  m a i n l y  
focused on using, enhancing or combining existing technologies and context-aware projects [9m o s t l y  deal with a limited scope \(i.e. not applicable to other context-aware scenarios\. In mobile healthcare computing, a general approach for modeling and reasoning about uncertain, health situations and performing smart and cost-efficient analysis of data in real-time has not been introduced and is an open issue In this paper we propose situation-aware adaptive processing \(SAAP\ data streams for mobile healthcare applications. The novelty and contribution of this project are as follows: i\ituation-awareness is 
achieved by Fuzzy Situation Inference \(FSI\ that combines fuzzy logic principles with the Context Spaces \(CS\model, a formal and general context modeling and reasoning for pervasive computing environments. The strengths of fuzzy logic for modeling of vague situations are combined with the CS model s underlying theoretical basis for supporting context-aware pervasive computing scenarios; ii SAAP incorporates situation-awareness into data stream mining and provides gradual tuning of data streaming parameters according to occurring situations 
and available resources. This approach improves data stream mining operations in an intelligent and costefficient manner. The SAAP approach enables continuity and consistency of running operations that are of high important for health monitoring applications that deal with sensitive and critical data Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE 
 


1.1. A Scenario  John has had a heart attack and is released from hospital but there are concerns that he might be susceptible to another heart attack and is also experiencing blood pressure fluctuations. Constant monitoring of his vital signs could help him to reduce his anxiety, decrease the need for routine visits to medical facilities, and also detect early warning features of a possible impending event. He has a smart phone with SAAP installed on it and is willing to wear biosensors to measure his vital signs. The data is wirelessly sent to his mobile where SAAP detects any changes not only in his vital signs but in any contextual information that is related to the application \(e.g. the battery level of the mobile phone\P uses this information to reason about situations in real-time and according to inferred situations, it performs intelligent and cost-efficient analysis of data. When fluctuations of vital signs are within a specified acceptable  threshold, there is no need for frequent measurement and use of resources can be reduced and moderated However, when these fluctuations are over the threshold, this situation warrants a closer monitoring by the system and more frequent measurements. This type of adaptation requires factoring in both available resources and criticality of health situations This paper is structured as follows: Section 2 discusses the related work. Section 3 presents the SAAP architecture. Section 4 describes the Fuzzy Situation Inference \(FSI\that enables situationawareness. Section 5 discusses the adaptation engine Section 6 and 7 describes implementation and evaluation respectively. Finally section 8 concludes the paper and discusses the future work  2. Related Work  Mobile healthcare computing is a new and evolving area of research that exploits the recent development in mobile networks and communications for health monitoring applications. EPI-MEDICS a lar g e  scale European project that provides personal monitoring of ECG signals for early detection of cardiac ischemia and arrhythmia and generating different levels of alarms. Another European project called the MobiHealth project s es 2.5 \(G PR S  an d  3G \(UMTS\nologies to integrate all the sensors and actuators into a wireless network called Body Area Network \(BAN\he project of ubimon \(Ubiquitous Monitoring Environment for Wearable and Implantable Sensors 7  a i ms t o p r o v i d e c o nt i nuo us  m a na ge m e n t  of patients mainly focusing on sensors and wireless technology rather than data analysis techniques Personalization is another area of focus in developing mobile health monitoring applications that has been studied in Context-awareness is one of the key requirements of health monitoring systems that enables autonomous operations without patient s intervention and enhances decision making of healthcare professionals on patient condition e v e r, th er e are lim i t ed research es  that have attempted to fully address the contextawareness or provide a general and formal representation of context e of t h e w o r k s i n  mobile healthcare that incorporates both contextawareness and adaptation is proposed in t t h e  paper does not provide the details of how and when the proposed adaptation strategies are applied. Studies in data stream processing [14-15 e ry applicationspecific and focus on very limited areas of research. A general approach for smart and cost-efficient analysis of data for mobile healthcare systems has not been introduced in the current state-of-the-art and is still an open issue  3. Situation-Aware Adaptive Processing SAAP\ Data Streams  The architecture for Situation-Aware Adaptive Processing \(SAAP\a streams consists of three components of Fuzzy Situation Inference \(FSI Resource Monitor \(RM\ and Adaptation Engine \(AE as shown in Figure 1   Figure 1. The architecture of SAAP \(SituationAware Adaptive Processing\ of Data Streams  The FSI engine enables situation-awareness using fuzzy logic principles. Resource Monitor \(RM\ a software component that continuously monitors available resources such as available memory and battery usage and reports their availability to the adaptation engine. The Adaptation Engine \(AE\ is responsible for gradual tuning of data stream processing parameters in real-time according to the occurring situations and available resources. The Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


SAAP layer is built on the top of the data stream mining algorithms running on mobile devices and provides them with situation-aware adaptation. The next section discusses the FSI technique  4. Fuzzy Situation Inference \(FSI  FSI is a situation modeling and reasoning approach that integrates fuzzy logic into the Context Spaces \(CS m S I us es  th e be n e f its of t h e CS  m odel f o r supporting pervasive computing environments while incorporating fuzzy logic to deal with uncertainty associated with vague and real-world situations  4.1. The Context Spaces model   The Context Spaces model \(hereafter CS represents contextual information as geometrical objects in multidimensional space called situations The concept of a situation space is characterized by a set of regions. Each region is a set of acceptable values of a context attribute that satisfies a predicate In addition to basic concepts and techniques for situation modeling and reasoning, the CS model provides heuristics developed specifically for addressing context-awareness under uncertainty. These heuristics are integrated into reasoning techniques that are utility-based data fusion algorithms and compute the confidence level in the occurrence of a situation  T h e C S  deals w i th u n c e r tain t y m a i n l y  as s o ciated  with sensors inaccuracies. Yet there is another aspect of uncertainty in human concepts and real-world situations that needs to be represented by the context model and reflected in the results of situation reasoning. Fuzzy logic uses multi-value logic and has the benefit of dealing with this level of uncertainty by assigning membership degrees to values  4.2. Situation Modeling  FSI consists of three subcomponent including fuzzifier, rules and inference engine. Fuzzifier  as a software component, maps crisp input \(i.e. values of context attributes\nto fuzzy sets using trapezoidal membership functions. In a fuzzy set, membership of an item is gradual and is represented by a degree between 0 and 1 [1 In F S I, s itu atio n s of i n teres t are  defined using fuzzy rules by domain experts and stored in a rule repository. Each FSI rule consists of multiple conditions joined with the AND operator but a condition can itself be a disjunction of conditions [18  To model the importance of conditions, we assign a weight w to each condition with a value ranging between 0 and 1. The sum of weights is 1 per rule. A weight represents the importance of its assigned condition relative to other conditions in defining a situation  An example of a FSI rule is as follows if Room-Temperature  is hot and Heart-Rate is fast and \( Age is middle-aged or old\ then situation is heat stroke  The next subsection discusses situation reasoning  4.3. Situation Reasoning  To reason about a situation, rules need to be evaluated to produce a single output that determines the membership degree of the consequent h e conditions joined with the OR operator are evaluated using the maximum function. However, to evaluate the conditions joined with the AND operator, FSI provides four reasoning techniques as shown in Table 1  Table 1. Reasoning techniques Heuristic: weights and contribution level CS   n i i i c w Confidence 1  FSI   n i i i x w Confidence 1     Heuristic: sensors inaccuracy CS    n i i t i i A a w Confidence 1  Pr   FSI       1   n i i i i e x f w Confidence   Heuristic: symmetric and asymmetric attributes CS    n i i t i i A a w Confidence 1  Pr   where  A S i CA CA a    FSI       1   n i i i i e x f w Confidence   where FS x i   and A S LV LV FS    Heuristic: partial and complete containment CS          m k k t k n i i t i i A a p q A a p w q Confidence 1 2 1 1      where 1 2 1   q q  and  S k A S i CA a CA CA a      FSI         m k k k n i i i i e x f q e x f w q Confidence 1 2 1 1            where 1 2 1   q q  and  FS x i   A S LV LV FS    FS x k   S LV FS   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


These techniques integrate fuzzy logic into the CS reasoning methods to provide another aspect of uncertainty \(i.e. uncertainty of situations and delta changes of context\e computation of confidence value for the occurrence of a situation The situation reasoning techniques of CS are based on four heuristics that are introduced to manage uncertainty in pervasive computing environments These heuristics are as follows: i\e weights of context attributes and confidence level of values; ii sensors inaccuracy; iii\ymmetric and asymmetric context attributes; iv\d partial and complete containment of symmetric context attributes. Table 1 depicts reasoning methods of CS, their FSI equivalent that are combined with fuzzy logic and their underlying heuristics and theoretical concepts The next subsections discuss each heuristic and reasoning technique in more detail  4.3.1. Weights and contribution level The first reasoning technique of CS is based on the weights of context attributes and the level of confidence of attributes values. Weights are assigned to context attributes and represent relative importance of each context attribute for inferring a situation. Level of confidence is assigned to each element and reflects how that element relates to the modeled situation. In this heuristic, the contribution function that computes the contribution level is proposed at a conceptual level and its implementation is later introduced in the second reasoning technique based on sensors inaccuracy In FSI, the concept of weights is associated with linguistic variables \(i.e. context attributes\he concept of contribution level is similar to the membership degree of elements in a fuzzy set but they are implemented using membership functions  The result of   i i x w  represents a weighted membership degree of i x and n represents the number of conditions in a rule \(1 i n  4.3.2. Sensors inaccuracy  To provide automatic computation of the contribution level at run-time, the second reasoning method of CS uses the impact of sensor inaccuracies and unreliability as a determining factor to compute the contribution level. This method computes the probability of a context attribute correct value t i a being contained in the region i A To compute the probability value based on the reliability of a sensor, the reliability of reading \(e.g. 95%\used to represent the probability value \(i.e.  =0.95 The second option to compute the probability value is to integrate the sensors inaccuracy of reading rather than the reliability of readin g. Using this option, the probability value is calculated in the following format  1  max Pr  min Pr j i t i j j i t i j A a e A a e        where t i a denotes the sensed value of the context attribute j e represents the sensor reading error \(i.e t i a  t i a d  min j i A  and   max j i A represent minimum and maximum values of the region The second reasoning method of CS deals with uncertainty factoring in inaccuracies of sensors however this equation does not reflect delta changes of values in the equation and is not adequate to reason about vague situations. The FSI equivalent technique not only incorporates the contribution level associated with sensors inaccuracy but includes the membership of the values as another factor affecting the contribution level. In the FSI model, we first calculate the correct value based on the reliability or error rate and then pass it to the membership function. The function f calculates the correct value of the context based on the inaccuracy value i e If i e is a reliability rate, the sensed value is multiplied by it and if it is an error rate \(i.e. \ it is added to the sensed value  4.3.3. Symmetric and asymmetric context attributes  The third reasoning technique of CS introduces the concepts of symmetric context attribute S CA  and asymmetric context attribute A CA A symmetric context attribute increases the confidence in inferring a situation if its value is within the corresponding region and decreases the confidence if it is outside that region \(e.g. reasoning about the hypertension situation based on blood pressure  asymmetric context attribute increases the confidence in inferring a situation if its value is within the corresponding region but would not decrease the confidence if it is outside that region \(e.g. reasoning about the heat stroke situation based on age  Whenever an asymmetric attribute is not contained within its region, the redistribution method assigns 0 to the weight of the attribute and recalculates the relative weights for the remaining attributes as follows  2   n i i i i w w w 1    The concept of symmetric and asymmetric attributes and its corresponding reasoning technique is applied into FSI \(as shown in Table 1\. However, since Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


values that linguistic variables take are not numeric i.e. these values are called terms that represent fuzzy sets\e concept of symmetric and asymmetric concepts are applied to the values of fuzzy sets associated with linguistic variables  4.3.4. Partial and complete containment The fourth heuristic deals with the fact that the value of an important context attribute should affect the result of the situation inference more than the other attributes i.e. less important ones\d when several attributes are significant for the evaluation of a situation we may want to ensure that all of them are contained in their regions. This heuristic has been integrated into the fourth reasoning technique that aims to address the trade-off between complete containment of all symmetric context attributes \(i.e. when all values of symmetric attributes are contained in their corresponding regions\and their individual contribution using the third reasoning technique. This heuristic does not apply to asymmetric attributes because they do not decrease the confidence for the occurrence of a situation To address the trade-off between complete and partial containment, the fourth reasoning technique presents each aspect of containment with a dimension using utility weights \(i.e 1 q and 2 q d combines them towards inferring the occurrence of a situation The utility weights of two dimensions determine which aspect of containment is more important \(i.e. complete or partial The concept of partial and complete containment and its reasoning technique are applied to FSI. Similar to the third reasoning method, FSI maps values of symmetric context attributes into the values of fuzzy sets corresponding to symmetric linguistic variables Results of situation reasoning using the techniques discussed earlier suggests the degree of confidence in the occurrence of a situation. In FSI, if the output of a rule evaluation for the hypertension situation yields a degree of 0.885, we can suggest that the level of confidence in the occurrence of hypertension is 0.885. This value can be compared to a confidence threshold between 0 and 1 \(i.e. predefined by the application s designers\ine whether a situation is occurring The next section discusses the component of the AE \(Adaptation Engine  5. Adaptation Engine \(AE  The AE \(Adaptation Engine\ responsible for gradual tuning of data stream processing parameters according to the occurring situation/s and available resources in real time. Lightweight data stream mining techniques such LWC, LWCLass, RA-Cluster, ERACluster, and DRA-Cluster [2-3, 20p tiv e to  availability of resources via adjusting the algorithm parameters. These parameters control output, input and/or the process of the algorithm. In these algorithms, the adaptation process is done through Algorithm Granularity \(AG\ approach AG has three different variations of AOG Algorithm Output Granularity\, AIG \(Algorithm Input Granularity\ and APG \(Algorithm Processing Granularity\ [21-22   A O G c o nt r o l s  t h e a l go r i t h m output rate based on the availability of memory via changing the data stream mining algorithm parameters to encourage or discourage the creation of new output structures. Similarly AIG and AP t rol th e  input rate and consumption of processing power according to the battery level and CPU usage respectively We have inspired by the concepts of AG and developed three different adaptation strategies. These strategies include resource-aware, situation-aware and hybrid strategies as shown in Figure 2   Figure 2. Adaptation of data stream mining  AE constantly monitors occurring situations that are inferred by FSI and availability of resources reported by RM Each pre-defined situation needs to be assigned a criticality value \(i.e. a value between 0 and 1\at indicates their importance. For both situations \(S\nd computational resources \(R\ere are two thresholds i.e. lower and upper bounds\alue between 0 and 1 which indicate safe, medium and critical levels. The higher the value is, the higher the situation importance and resource usage is. Based on these levels of criticality for situations and resources, there can be nine possible variations \(cases\ at run Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


time. Controller that is a subcomponent of AE makes decisions on which strategy needs to be performed according to these thresholds. These nine cases are presented in Table 2. We have allocated the adaptation strategies according to these nine cases. When resources are critical it means that the mobile device can not continue the mining operations and the adaptation strategies that we provide are not adequate to address the issue. Therefore other strategies such as migration of the data or the process need to be performed which are out of the scope of this project  Table 2. Adaptation Cases Cases Adaptation strategy 1- if R at safe level and S at safe level Situation-aware strategy 2- if R at safe level and S at medium level Situation-aware strategy 3- if R at safe level and S at critical level Situation-aware strategy 4- if R at medium level and S at safe level Resource-aware strategy 5- if R at medium level and S at medium level Hybrid strategy 6- if R at medium level and S at critical level Hybrid  strategy 7- if R at critical level and S at safe level 8- if R at critical level and S at medium level 9- if R at critical level and S at critical level Other strategies e.g migration  5.1. Resource-aware Adaptation Strategy   Resource-aware adaptation strategy occurs when the situation is at safe level but resource availability is at medium level. This is because normal situations do not require frequent monitoring and the results of resource-aware adaptation do not contradict the requirements of normal situations. Resource-awareness is inspired by the AG approach. One of the AOG-based clustering algorithms is called LightWeight Clustering LWC W C con s iders a th res h old dis t a n ce  measure for clustering of data. Increasing this threshold discourages forming of new clusters and in turn reduces resource consumption AOG is a three-stage, resource-aware distancebased mining data streams approach. The process of mining data streams using AOG starts with a mining phase. In this step, a value of threshold distance measure is determined. This threshold has the ability to control the output rate of the running mining algorithm The second stage in AOG-mining approach is the adaptation phase. In this phase, the threshold value is adjusted to cope with the data rate of the incoming stream, available memory, and time constraints to fill the memory with generated knowledge \(data mining output The last stage in AOG approach is the knowledge integration phase. This stage represents the merging of generated results when the memory is full. This integration allows the continuity of the mining process on resource-constrained devices The next subsection discusses situation-aware adaptation strategy based on the results of the FSI  5.2. Situation-aware Adaptation Strategy   Situation-aware adaptation in AE is performed when resources are available and at safe level Situation-aware adaptation occurs based on occurring situations inferred by FSI. These results are multiple situations with different level of confidence. To provide a fine-grained adaptation and reflecting the level of confidence of each situation in the adaptation phase, we compute weighted average of the data mining parameter value based on confidence values of situations and the pre-set value of the parameter for each situation. The pre-set values of parameters are automatically calculated based on the importance values of the situations that will be discussed further in the evaluation section. The situation-aware adaptation enables reflecting all the results of situation inference in the adaptation of parameter values and is represented as follows  3   n i n i i j i j p p 11     where j p  represents the set value of a parameter for a pre-defined situation i S  i   denotes the membership degree of  situation i S where 1 i n and n represents the number of pre-defined situations, and j p  represents aggregated value of the parameter Situation-aware adaptation itself results in costefficiency because when a situation has a lower importance value, the computed set value for the threshold will be a higher value. This decreases the output of the LWC algorithm and reduces the memory consumption The next subsection describes hybrid adaptation strategy  5.3. Hybrid Adaptation Strategy   When resources are at medium level and situations are at medium or critical level \(i.e. cases 5 and 6 in Table 2\, the controller a pplies the hybrid adaptation Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


strategy. When the adaptation cases 5 or 6 occurs resource-aware and situation-aware adaptation strategies each compute different values according to resource availability and occurring situations respectively. Therefore there is a trade-off between the results of these two strategies. Hybrid adaptation strategy addresses this issue by computing the average value of parameter based on the results of the two strategies and criticality values of the situation and resource as follows  4  S R S S R R I y criticalit y criticalit y criticalit p y criticalit p p            Having discussed the theoretical framework of our work, the following section presents the implementation and evaluations we have performed  6. Implementation  We have implemented a prototype of health monitoring application based on FSI in J2ME and deployed it on a Nokia N95 \(shown in Figure 3\The prototype reasons about situations of normal  prehypotension  hypotension  pre-hypertension and hypertension This application can be used by patients who suffer from blood pressure fluctuations. A trapezoidal membership func tion is used to compute membership degree of context values. Contextual information used includes systolic and diastolic blood pressure \(SBP and DBP\d heart rate \(HR     Figure 3. The prototype of SAAP-based health monitoring application with an ECG biosensor  To capture the patient s heart rate, we have used a two lead ECG biosensor from Alive Technologies that transmits ECG signals using Bluetooth to the mobile phone. For the blood pressure, we have used randomly generated data that simulates blood pressure fluctuations. The health monitoring application performs situation reasoning and situation-aware adaptation in real-time on the mobile device using the LWC algorithm. Status bars on the mobile phone displays the level of certainty and confidence in the occurrence of each situation The evaluation of FSI and adaptation engine is presented in the next section  7. Evaluation  For evaluation of SAAP, we have performed two evaluations. First evaluation is a comparative evaluation of FSI, CS and Dempster-Shafer and second evaluation focuses on the adaptation of threshold parameter of LWC according to occurring situations  7.1. Evaluation of FSI  To evaluate the FSI model, we have compared the FSI situation reasoning technique to the CS and Dempster-Shafer \(hereafter DS\oning approaches The purpose of this evaluation is first to validate the FSI model against a well-known reasoning technique such as DS and a context model developed for pervasive computing environments such as CS. The second objective of the evaluation is to highlight the benefits of the FSI to deal with uncertain situations In this evaluation, we have considered situations of hypotension  normal and hypertension These situations are defined using context attributes of systolic blood pressure \(SBP\d diastolic blood pressure \(DBP\with the scale of 40-170 and 20-150 mm Hg and heart rate \(HR\ with the range of 20-150 bpm Table 3 depicts modeling of the three situations in the CS model including the weights of attributes and their corresponding regions of values. Assigned weights are 0.4 for SBP and DBP and 0.2 for HR  Table 3. Situation definitions in CS Situation Context attribute Region of values Hypotension   1=SBP 2=DBP 3=HR 85 60 45 Normal 1=SBP 2=DBP 3=HR 85 and 135 60 and 110 45 and 85 Hypertension 1=SBP 2=DBP 3=HR 135 110 85  The modeling of the three situations in the FSI model is presented in Table 4. Weights of conditions for the FSI rules conform to the weights used in CS  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


Table 4. Situation definitions in FSI Situation Linguistic Variable Terms represented below via  FSI rules 1=SBP 2=DBP 3=HR low, normal, high low, normal, high slow, normal, fast Rule1: if SBP is low and DBP is low and HR is low then situation is hypotension Rule2: if SBP is normal and DBP is normal and HR is normal then situation is normal Rule3: if SBP is high and DBP is high and HR is high then situation is hypertension To apply the DS algorithm for reasoning about situations we use the Dempsters rule of combination. The normalized version of the combination rule is as follows 5          Q P j i R Q P j i Q m P m Q m P m R m     1         where m\(R\ denotes the mass value computed for a proposition R given the evidences i and j. If R represents a situation, considering all existing propositions, the intersection of some of these propositions denoted as P and Q results in the proposition R \(i.e.  \d the intersection of other combinations of propositions results in an empty set To model the three situations of Hypotension \(L Normal \(N\d Hypertension \(H\with DS, we first need to define propositions and events. Since all three situations are incompatible we include a proposition of Unknown \(U\ that would consist of three situations Then we identify the events and mass values that reflect the association of an event with the occurrences of each proposition as depicted in Table 5  Table 5. Definitions of events and mass values Event  N L H U SBPLow \(40-85 0 0.7 0 0.3 SBPMed\(86-135\  0.7 0 0 0.3 SBPHigh\(136180 0 0 0.7 0.3 DBPLow\(20-60 0 0.7 0 0.3 DBPMed\(61-110\  0.7 0 0 0.3 DBPHigh\(110130 0 0 0.7 0.3 HRSlow\(20-45 0.2 0.4 0 0.4 HRMed\(46-85\  0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 HRFast\(86-130 0.2 0 0.4 0.4  Mass values are assigned in a way that they reflect to what degree each event indicates a situation. Since we have based our situations on three context attributes, we define three mass functions corresponding. Then we apply DS combination over all propositions and evidence The dataset used for the evaluation consists of 131 context states and their scales contribute to the occurrence of each pre-defined situation as well as the uncertain situations that occurs when situations evolve Figure 4 presents the results of the evaluation of CS, DS and FSI for situation reasoning about hypotension  normal and hypertension   0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1 112131415161718191101111121131 FS_Hy po CS_Hy po DS_Hy po 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1 1121314151 61718191101111121131 FSI_N CS_N DS_N 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1 11 21 31 41 51 61 71 81 91 101 111 121 131 FS_Hyper CS_Hyper DS_Hyper Figure 4. Results of the evaluation  Figure 4 shows three approaches of CS, DS and FSI have a relatively similar trend according to context changes. When the data corresponds to a pre-defined situation the results of three approaches almost overlap. However, when changes of data indicate the occurrence of an unknown and uncertain situation differences of reasoning results between CS, DS and FSI are more apparent Compared to FSI, the results of situation reasoning by the CS and DS methods show sudden rises and falls with sharp edges when situations change which do not match the real-life situations. This is because the DS and CS approaches do not deal with delta changes of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


the values and are not able to reflect the gradual evolution of one situation to another situation. When the value of context attributes decreases or increases its membership degree also increases and decreases accordingly and gradually. This enables FSI to provide more accurate situation reasoning results in terms of reflecting very minor changes of context The evaluation validates the accuracy of the FSI model for situation modeling and reasoning and it also shows that FSI is able to reflect very minor changes of context in situation inference and represent changes in a more gradual and smooth manner. The evaluation shows that the FSI model is more appropriate approach for representation of human concepts and for reasoning about the real-world situations that are defined by continuous values. Health-related situations are examples of these types of scenarios where FSI can prove to be more fitting approach compared to the DS and CS reasoning approaches  7.2. Evaluation of Situation-Aware Adaptation   In the implementation of the SAAP we have used the LightWeight Clustering \(LWC g o rithm a s  the data stream mining algorithm. This algorithm is one-pass and operates using the AOG principals as discussed earlier in the paper. The LWC algorithm provides adaptability by adjusting the parameter of threshold distance measure according to the available memory on a device such as a PDA. In the evaluation of situation-aware adaptation, we have adjusted the parameter of threshold of LWC according to the confidence level of the occurring situations. The values of LWC threshold for each situation are computed based on the importance value of each situation and the minimum and maximum values of the threshold \(i.e. 6 and 45 respectively\ using the following formula  threshold=minValue+\(maxValue-minValue\*\(1-importance  Using the above formula, if we assign the situations of normal  hypertension and hypotension the importance values of 0.1, 0.9 and 0.5, the computed threshold values of each situation will be 42, 10 and 26 respectively. These values are acceptable given a variation of 12 \(i.e. 42 divided by 3\for any of the context attributes of SBP, DBP and HR has no significant impact on a healthy individual while a variation of 3 for hypertension can be significant To evaluate the situation-aware adaptation, we have used the same 131 context states used for the first evaluation. Figure 5 shows that the threshold value is adjusted according to the confidence value of each situation. Decreasing the threshold value increases the number of the output \(clusters\at is required for closer monitoring of more critical situations     0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 26 26 26 29 32 42 42 35 35 29 10 10 10 10 Data Stream Algorithm Threshold Level of Confidence of Situation FSI_N FS_Hypo FS_Hyper  Figure 5. Situation-Awa re Adaptation Results   The next section concludes the paper and discusses future work  8. Conclusion and Future Work  In this paper we proposed and validated a general approach for situation-aware adaptive processing SAAP\ of data streams that incorporates situationawareness into data stream processing using fuzzy logic. The fuzzy situation inference model allows modeling and reasoning about real-world and healthrelated situations. The SAAP architecture enables realtime analysis of data emanating from multiple sensors including bio-sensors onboard mobile devices while factoring in contextual/situational information and resource availability. This approach significantly enhances a range of mobile healthcare applications There are several directions in which we are extending this work. We are currently finalizing implementation and evaluation of hybrid adaptation using RA-Clust at en ables adaptation of t h e  parameters of radius threshold, randomization factor and sampling rate according to the memory, CPU and battery usage respectively. Furthermore, we are working on extensive testing of our prototype in realworld situation in conjunction with relevant healthcare professionals and domain experts in order to develop an understanding of high risk situations for the monitoring of patients and identifying what information is required from bio-sensors  10. References  1 M  M  Ga b e r  S  K r i s h n a s wa m y  a n d A Z a s l a v s k y  Ubiquitous Data Stream Mining Current Research and Future Directions Workshop Proceedings held in conjunction Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


with The Eighth Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Sydney, Australia, 2004  2 M  M  Ga b e r  S  K r i s h n a s wa m y  a n d A Z a s l a v s k y  Resource-Aware Mining of Data Streams Journal of Universal Computer Science. 11\(8\2005, pp.1440 1453   M  M  G a b e r A  Z a sl av sk y  an d S  Kri s hn asw a my  A Cost-Efficient Model for Ubiquitous Data Stream Mining  Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Information Processing and Management of Uncertainty in Knowledge-Based Systems, Perugia Italy, 2004   A   P a do vi t z  S  Lo ke an d A  Z a sl av sk y   Towards a Theory of Context Spaces In Proceedings of the 2nd IEEE Annual Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications, Workshop on Context Modeling and Reasoning \( CoMoRea \ando, Florida: IEEE Computer Society, 2004  5 D  K ons ta n t a s  V. J o ne s  a nd R  Bu lts  MobiHealthInnovative 2.5/3G Mobile Services and Applications for Healthcare 2007  6  P  R ube l, J. Fa y n G  Nollo, D. A ssa ne lli, B. L i L   Restier, S. Adami, S. Arod, H. Atoui, M. Ohlsson, L SimonChautemps, D. Telisson, C. Malossi, G. Ziliani, A. Galassi L. Edenbrandt, and P. Chevalier Toward Personal eHealth in Cardiology: Results from the EPI-MEDICS Telemedicine Project Journal of Electrocardiology 2005, 38: pp. 100-106  7 K  L a e r hov e n L  Be nn y  J  N g J S. T h ie m j a r us R. K i ng   S. Kwan, H. Gellersen, M. Sloman, O. Wells, P. Needham N. Peters, A. Darzi, C. Toumazou, G. Yang, "Medical healthcare monitoring with wearable and implantable sensors", UbiHealth 2004: The 2nd International Workshop on Ubiquitous Computing for Pervasive Healthcare Applicationsm, 2004  8  P. L e ijide k k e rs, a nd V  G a y   Personal Heart Monitoring and Rehabilitation System using Smart Phones In Proceedings of the International Conference on Mobile Business \(ICMB'05\, 2005    P   V a j i r kar S  S i n g h  Y  L e e  Context-Aware Data Mining Framework for Wireless Medical Application  Lecture Notes in Computer Science \(LNCS\ume 2736 Springer-Verlag. ISBN 3-540-40806-1, 2003, pp. 381 391  1 B Jan s en an d R Dekl erek  Context-Aware Inactivity Recognition for Visual Fall Detection In Pervasive Health Conference and Workshops, 2006  11 K i m  H a nd J o H   A Context-Aware Traveler Healthcare Service \(THS\ystem In Pervasive Health Conference and Workshops. November-December 2006  12 M. Be c k e r E. W e r k m a n M. A n a s ta s opoulos a nd T   Kleinberger Approaching Ambient Intelligent Home Care Systems In Pervasive Health Conference and Workshops 2006 1 H M e i  I W i d y a  A  Hal t eren an d B E r f i an t o   A Flexible Vital Sign Representation Framework for Mobile Healthcare 2007 14 G  Bre ttle c k e r H  S c huld t a nd R  Sc ha tz   Hyperdatabases for Peer-to-Peer Data Stream Processing  In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS'04\n Diego, California, 2004  15 C  C h e n  H  A g r a w a l  M  C o c h i n w a l a a n d D   Rosenbluth Stream query processing for healthcare biosensor applications In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Data Engin eering \(ICDE'04\ston, MA USA: IEEE Computer Society, 2004  1 A  P a do vi t z  A  Z a sl a v sk y an d S  Lo ke  A Unifying Model for Representing and Reasoning About Context under Uncertainty 11th International Conference on Information Processing and Management of Uncertainty in KnowledgeBased Systems \(IPMU\Paris, France\006  17 J a ng J  R S u n  C a n d Mi z u ta ni E N e ur o-Fuz z y a nd Soft Computing: A Computational Approach to Learning and Machine Intelligence. Prentice-Hall: Upper Saddle River, NJ 1997  1 Br u c e G  Bu ch an an B G  an d S h o r t l i f f e  E  D  Ru l e based expert systems : the MYCIN experiments of the Stanford Heuristic Programming Project. Reading, Mass Addison-Wesley, 1984  1 Z i mm er man n  H  F u zzy S e t T h eo r y an d Its  Applications. Kluwer Academic Publishers, Norwell Massachusetts, 1996  2  M  M  G a b e r S  Kri s hn asw a my an d A  Z a sl avs k y   Onboard Mining of Data Streams in Sensor Networks A Book Chapter in Advanced Methods of Knowledge Discovery from Complex Data, \(Eds.\dhyopadhyay, U. Maulik, L Holder and D. Cook, Springer Verlag  21 M M. G a be r  S. K r is hna s w am y   a nd A  Za s l av sky   Adaptive Mining Techniques for Data Streams Using Algorithm Output Granularity The Australasian Data Mining Workshop \(AusDM 2003\eld in conjunction with the 2003 Congress on Evolutionary Computation \(CEC 2003\, Canberra, Australia, Springer Verlag, Lecture Notes in Computer Science \(LNCS\03  22 N   Ph ung M M. G a be r a nd U  R o e h m   Resource-aware Distributed Online Data Mining for Wireless Sensor Networks Proceedings of the International Workshop on Knowledge Discovery from Ubiquitous Data Streams IWKDUDS07\, in conjunction with ECML and PKDD 2007, Warsaw, Poland, 2007  23 A liv e Te c hnolog ie s  http w w w  a liv e t e c c om  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


pre></body></html 


lossless frequent patterns representations with borders. In practice, they are also much more concise than representations based on closed itemsets and approximate representations. In this paper, we offered three methods of deriving an upper bound on the length of sets in such representations. We proved that the upper bound on the length of a longest generalized disjunction-free set depends logarithmically on the number of records in the database. The obtained result is of high importance as it guarantees that any generalized disjunction-free set representation for all patterns \(both frequent and infrequent scans, where n is the number of records in the database irrespectively how strong or weak correlations among items in the database are and irrespectively of the lengths of records and number of distinct items The modifications of the basic estimation take into account the support threshold of the representation to be found or, additionally, the information on the length of longest sets of the representation already calculated for a higher support threshold. Though these estimations are more accurate than the basic one, they are still quite rough. Further improvements of the quality of estimating the length of longest itemsets in generalized disjunctionfree representations is subject to further research References 1] R. Agrawal, H. Mannila, R. Srikant, H. Toivonen, A.I Verkamo  Fast Discovery of Association Rules   Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining AAAI, CA, 1996 2] J. Baptiste, J.-F. Boulicaut  Constraint-Based Discovery and Inductive Queries: Application to Association Rule Mining  Pattern Detection and Discovery, Springer London, UK, September 2002, pp. 110-124 3] E. Baralis, S. Chiusano, P. Garza  On Support Thresholds in Associative Classification  SAC, ACM, Taipei Taiwan, March 2004, pp. 553-558 4] Y. Bastide, N. Pasquier, R. Taouil, G. Stumme, L. Lakhal  Mining Minimal Non-redundant Association Rules Using Frequent Closed Itemsets  Computational Logic, 2000 pp. 972  986 5] J.-F. Boulicaut, A. Bykowski, C. Rigotti  Approximation of Frequency Queries by Means of Free-Sets  PKDD Springer, Lyon, France, September 2000, pp. 75-85 6] A. Bykowski, C. Rigotti  A Condensed Representation to Find Frequent Patterns  PODS, ACM, Santa Barbara USA, May 2001, pp. 267-273 7] T. Calders, Axiomatization and Deduction Rules for the Frequency of Itemsets, Ph.D. Thesis, University of Antwerp, 2003 8] T. Calders, B. Goethals  Mining All Non-derivable Frequent Itemsets  PKDD, Springer, Helsinki, Finland August 2002, pp. 74?85 9] T. Calders, B. Goethals  Minimal k-free Representations of Frequent Sets  ECML/PKDD, Springer, CavtatDubrovnik, Croatia, September 2003, pp. 71-82 10] J. Han, M. Kamber, Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2000 11] S.K. Harms, J. Deogun, J. Saquer, T. Tadesse  Discovering Representative Episodal Association Rules from Event Sequences Using Frequent Closed Episode Sets and Event Constraints  ICDM, IEEE Computer Society, San Jose, California, USA, November-December 2001, pp. 603  606 12] M. Kryszkiewicz  Closed Set Based Discovery of Representative Association Rules  IDA, Springer Cascais, Portugal, September 2001, pp. 350-359 13] M. Kryszkiewicz  Concise Representation of Frequent Patterns based on Disjunction  free Generators  ICDM IEEE Computer Society, San Jose, California, USA 


IEEE Computer Society, San Jose, California, USA November-December 2001, pp. 305  312 14] M. Kryszkiewicz M  Inferring Knowledge from Frequent Patterns  Soft-Ware, Springer, Belfast, Northern Ireland April 2002, pp. 247  262 15] M. Kryszkiewicz  Concise Representations of Association Rules  Pattern Detection and Discovery, Springer London, UK, September 2002, pp. 92-109 16] M. Kryszkiewicz, Concise Representation of Frequent Patterns and Association Rules, Habilitation Thesis Publishing House of Warsaw University of Technology 2002 Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE 17] M. Kryszkiewicz  Reducing Infrequent Borders of Downward Complete Representations of Frequent Patterns  Proc. of The First Symposium on Databases Data Warehousing and Knowledge Discovery, Scientific Publishers OWN, Baden-Baden, Germany, July, 2003, pp 29-42 18] M. Kryszkiewicz  Closed Set Based Discovery of Maximal Covering Rules  International Journal of Uncertainty, Fuzziness and Knowledge-Based Systems Vol. 11. World Scientific Publishing Company, Singapore September 2003, pp. 15-29 19] M. Kryszkiewicz  Reducing Borders of k-Disjunction Free Representations of Frequent Patterns  SAC, ACM Taipei, Taiwan, March 2004, pp. 559  563 20] M. Kryszkiewicz  Reducing Main Components of k-Disjunction Free Representations of Frequent Patterns   Proc. of IPMU  2004 \(in print 21] M. Kryszkiewicz, M. Gajek  Concise Representation of Frequent Patterns based on Generalized Disjunction  Free Generators  PAKDD, Springer, Taipei, Taiwan, May 2002, pp. 159-171 22] M. Kryszkiewicz, M. Gajek  Why to Apply Generalized Disjunction-Free Generators Representation of Frequent Patterns  ISMIS, Springer, Lyon, France, June 2002, pp 383  392 23] M. Kryszkiewicz, H. Rybi?ski, M. Gajek  Dataless Transitions between Concise Representations of Frequent Patterns  Journal of Intelligent Information Systems JIIS Netherlands, 2004, pp. 41-70 24] N. Pasquier, Data mining: Algorithmes d  extraction et de R  duction des R  gles d  association dans les Bases de Donn  es, Th  se de Doctorat, Universit  Blaise Pascal   Clermont  Ferrand II, 2000 25] N. Pasquier, Y. Bastide, R. Taouil, L. Lakhal  Efficient Mining of Association Rules Using Closed Itemset Lattices  Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 24, No. 1 1999, pp. 25  46 26] N. Pasquier, Y. Bastide, R. Taouil, L. Lakhal  Discovering Frequent Closed Itemsets for Association Rules  ICDT, Springer, Jerusalem, Israel, January 1999 pp. 398  416 27] J. Pei, G. Dong, W. Zou, J. Han  On Computing Condensed Frequent Pattern Bases  ICDM, IEEE Computer Society, Maebashi City, Japan, December 2002 pp. 378-385 28] V. Phan-Luong V  Representative Bases of Association Rules  ICDM, IEEE Computer Society, San Jose California, USA, November-December 2001, pp. 639-640 29] A. Savinov  Mining Dependence Rules by Finding Largest Itemset Support Quota  SAC, ACM, Taipei Taiwan, March 2004, pp. 525-529 30] M.J. Zaki, C.J. Hsiao  CHARM: An Efficient Algorithm for Closed Itemset Mining  SIAM, Arlington, 2002 


for Closed Itemset Mining  SIAM, Arlington, 2002 Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


                                                  S J       


                                                      


                         L A                                        


          L A  Table 7. Table of Granules at left-hand-side is isomorphic to  at right- hand-side: By Theorem  3.1 one can ?nd patterns in either table as a single generalized concept  Internal points  are:[4]\(1, 1, 0, 0 tions; [5]\(0, 1, 1, 0  0, 1, 0, 1  0, 1, 1, 1  1, 1 1, 0  1, 1, 0, 1  1, 0, 1, 1 11]\(1, 1, 1, 1 form and simplify them into disjoint normal forms 1  T E N    S J    T E N    S J 2  T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A 3  T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   A 4  T W E N T Y            L A 5  T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N    T W E N T Y   A   S J    T W E N T Y   A      T H I R T Y    L A     Y 7  T E N      T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   L A    T E N   L A    S  J   A 8  T W E N T Y      T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N   T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y 9  T W E N T Y    N Y    T E N    S J    T H I R T Y    L A      T W E N T Y    L A  1 0  T W E N T Y    N Y    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A    J 1 1  T W E N T Y          T W E N T Y    L A   T H I R T Y    L A    a l l If the simpli?ed expression is a single clause \(in the original symbols non-generalized the following associations 1   T E N     S J    T E N    S J  2. SJ   J 4   L A    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y    6 Conclusions Data, patterns, method of derivations, and useful-ness are key ingredients in AM. In this paper, we formalize the current state of AM: Data are a table of symbols. The patterns are the formulas of input symbols that repeat. The method of derivations is the most conservative and reliable one, namely, mathematical deductions. The results are somewhat surprising 1. Patterns are properties of the isomorphic class, not an individual relation - This implies that the notion of patterns may not mature yet and explains why there are so many extracted association rules 2. Un-interpreted attributes \(features can be enumerated 3. Generalized associations can be found by solving integral linear inequalities. Unfortunately, the number is enormous. This signi?es the current notion of data and patterns \(implied by the algorithms 4. Real world modeling may be needed to create a much more meaningful notion of patterns. In the current state of AM, a pattern is simply a repeated data that may have no real world meaning. So we may need to introduce some semantics into the data model [12],[10],[11 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE References 1] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami  Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases  in Proceeding of ACM-SIGMOD international Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 


216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 2] Richard A. Brualdi, Introductory Combinatorics, Prentice Hall, 1992 3] A. Barr and E.A. Feigenbaum, The handbook of Arti?cial Intelligence, Willam Kaufmann 1981 4] Margaret H. Dunham, Data Mining Introduction and Advanced Topics Prentice Hall, 2003, ISBN 0-13088892-3 5] Fayad U. M., Piatetsky-Sjapiro, G. Smyth, P. \(1996 From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery: An overview. In Fayard, Piatetsky-Sjapiro, Smyth, and Uthurusamy eds., Knowledge Discovery in Databases AAAI/MIT Press, 1996 6] H Gracia-Molina, J. Ullman. &amp; J. Windin, J, Database Systems The Complete Book, Prentice Hall, 2002 7] T. T. Lee  Algebraic Theory of Relational Databases  The Bell System Technical Journal Vol 62, No 10, December, 1983, pp.3159-3204 8] T. Y. Lin  Deductive Data Mining: Mathematical Foundation of Database Mining  in: the Proceedings of 9th International Conference, RSFDGrC 2003 Chongqing, China, May 2003, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence LNAI 2639, Springer-Verlag, 403-405 9] T. Y. Lin  Attribute \(Feature  The Theory of Attributes from Data Mining Prospect  in: Proceeding of IEEE international Conference on Data Mining, Maebashi, Japan, Dec 9-12, 2002, pp. pp.282-289 10] T. Y. Lin  Data Mining and Machine Oriented Modeling: A Granular Computing Approach  Journal of Applied Intelligence, Kluwer, Vol. 13, No 2, September/October,2000, pp.113-124 11] T. Y. Lin, N. Zhong, J. Duong, S. Ohsuga  Frameworks for Mining Binary Relations in Data  In: Rough sets and Current Trends in Computing, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence 1424, A. Skoworn and L Polkowski \(eds 12] E. Louie,T. Y. Lin  Semantics Oriented Association Rules  In: 2002 World Congress of Computational Intelligence, Honolulu, Hawaii, May 12-17, 2002, 956961 \(paper # 5702 13  The Power and Limit of Neural Networks  Proceedings of the 1996 EngineeringSystems Design and Analysis Conference, Montpellier, France, July 1-4, 1996 Vol. 7, 49-53 14] Morel, Jean-Michel and Sergio Solimini, Variational methods in image segmentation : with seven image processing experiments Boston : Birkhuser, 1995 15] H. Liu and H. Motoda  Feature Transformation and Subset Selection  IEEE Intelligent Systems, Vol. 13 No. 2, March/April, pp.26-28 \(1998 16] Z. Pawlak, Rough sets. Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about Data, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1991 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


than that of MAFIA and the runtime of MHP can be significantly less than that of MAFIA 5.3. The Effect of the MHP Algorithm on Finding Maximal Hyperclique Patterns Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the number of maximal patterns identi?ed byMHP andMAFIA on Pumsb* and Pumsb data sets respectively. As can be seen, the number of maximal hyperclique patterns identi?ed by MHP can be orders of magnitude smaller than the number of maximal frequent patterns identi?ed by MAFIA. In other words, the number Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 1e+07 1e+08 1e+09 0.02 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 0.045 0.05 0.055 0.06 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0 Min_Conf=0.1 Min_Conf=0.3 Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 8. The Number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb* Data Set 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 


1e+07 1e+08 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 9. The number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb Data Set of maximal hyperclique patterns is much easier to manage than that of maximal frequent patterns. Indeed, in realworld applications, it is dif?cult to interpret several million maximal frequent patterns. However, it is possible to interpret the results of maximal hyperclique pattern mining In addition, due to the memory limitation, we cannot extract maximal frequent patterns with MAFIA on the Pumsb data set if the support threshold is less than 0.4, as shown in Figure 7. In contrast, MHP can identify maximal hyperclique patterns when the support threshold is 0.1, if we set the h-con?dence threshold to 0.5. In other words, MHP has the ability to identify patterns which can be dif?cult to identify for MAFIA. Hence, MHP can better explore the pattern space and ?nd interesting patterns at low levels of support 6. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we present a two-phase Maximal Hyperclique Pattern \(MHP best features of both the BFS strategy and the DFS strategy. More speci?cally, we adapted DFS pruning methods such as equivalence pruning, to an apriori-like approach In addition, we proved the correctness and completeness of the MHP algorithm. Finally, our experimental results show that the MHP algorithm can be several orders of magnitude faster than standard maximal frequent pattern mining algorithms and has the ability to identify patterns at extremely low levels of support in dense data sets There are several directions for future work. First, in 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





