  1 Rad-Hard High Speed Serial Communication using Honeywell SerDes Macros  Gary Roosevelt, David Bueno Jamal Haque, Weston Roper and Thomas Romanko  Honeywell 13350 US HWY 19 N Clearwater, FL  33764 727-531-4461 Gary.Roosevelt@honeywell.com David.Bueno@honeywell.com Jamal.Haque@honeywell.com   Honeywell 12001 HWY 55 Plymouth, MN 55441 763-954-2301 Weston.Roper@honeywell.com Thomas.Romanko@honeywell.com  Abstract 227SerDes \(Serializer/Deserializer component of serial communication architecture for highspeed servers and communications networking systems and point to point communication links.  It is a vital building 
block for space-based high-sp eed data communications Honeywell is enabling optimized communication systems with a SerDes macro-cell as part of their HX5000 Rad-Hard ASIC design platform and a SerDes standard part for nextgeneration aerospace systems Communication networks developed with SerDes embedded in an Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC lower power, higher data throughput and more efficient ASIC area usage than traditiona l approaches for high-speed backplanes and box-to-box networking systems.  When implemented on a Space qualified ASIC platform, SerDes offers the communication reliability and efficiency required in harsh space environments 1234  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  S 
YSTEM C ONSIDERATIONS 1  2  W HAT IS A S ER D ES  2  3  S YSTEM A DVANTAGES OF A S ER D ES 2  4  W HAT P ROTOCOLS ARE S UPPORTED  2  5  
W HAT F EATURES ARE S UPPORTED  4  6  S ER D ES C ONFIGURATION 4  7  S ERIAL T RANSMITTER 4  8  8B10B  E NCODING AND E QUALIZATION 5  9  S ERIAL 
R ECEIVER 6  10  P ARALLEL I NTERFACE 6  11  M ANAGEMENT I NTERFACE 8  1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1577, Versi on 2, Updated Oct 31, 2008 3 This material is based upon work supported by the DTRA under Contract Nos DTRA01-03-D-0018-0003, CLIN 0001 DTRA01-03-D-0018-0008 DTRA01-03-D-0018-0009, CLIN 0003 
DTRA01-03-D-0018-0009, CLIN 0007 4 Any opinions, findings a nd conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the aut hors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the DTRA  12  C ONCLUSION  8  R EFERENCES  10  B IOGRAPHY  10   1  S YSTEM C ONSIDERATIONS  Improvements in payload processing capabilities and increased sensor and downlink performance are driving the 
need for high-performance onboard spacecraft networking capabilities.  Space-based computing platforms generally contain multiple processing cards inside of a chassis connected via some type of custom interconnect built around a combination of point-to-point and bus-based protocols.  These custom-interconnected systems often provide a high-performance platform for a particular system, but at the cost of flexibility when applied to other systems and applications.  More recently, the use of commercial off-the-shelf \(COT S\proved flexibility by allowing system designers to create a range of systems based upon interoperable protocols such as VMEbus or CompactPCI \(cPCI\today\222s payload processing applications are rapidly outgrowing the throughput and latency capabilities of parallel bus-based architectures.  In addition the scalability and connectivity constraints \(i.e., one sender at a time\ional bus 
based mediums are equally limiting to the performance of payload-processing networks.  Even \223bent-pipe\224 downlink applications are now being limited by the constraints of legacy network capabilities, as sensor data rates and modern downlink rates are beginning to exceed the raw throughput capability of parallel, bus-based network architectures In recent years, switched networks for embedded systems have emerged with the potential to mitigate the limitations of bus-based networks.  Such networks have the potential to perform as well as a custom interconnect but with much greater flexibility and lower cost.  Early switched networks for embedded systems were based on parallel interconnect standards such as RACEway and Parallel RapidIO.  These 
 


  2 networks provide hundreds to thousands of megabits per second of bandwidth between ports in the switched fabric with aggregate bandwidth totals far surpassing that of VMEbus or CompactPCI.  For example, a 64-bit, 33 MHz cPCI bus can provide roughly 1 gigabit per second \(Gbps of throughput, while a single 8-bit parallel dual-data-rate DDR\250 MHz Parallel RapidIO endpoint can provide almost twice this throughput. Because switched networks provide many such independent links, even modest systems can provide tens or hundreds of gigabits per second of aggregate throughput with many non-blocking links. While parallel networks provide high-performance, skew considerations introduce design complexity and limit the maximum distance of a parallel link, constraining parallel networks to \223inside-the-box\224 applications. Size, weight, and power of parallel networks can also be a severely limiting constraint, due to the many synchronous parallel data lines at high clock frequencies Serial networks are the next step in the evolution of onboard networking capabilities.  The availability of Honeywell\222s radiation-hardened SerDes capability enables the use of protocols such as 10 Gigabit Ethernet, FibreChannel, and Serial RapidIO for both inside-the-box and box-to-box space applications. With four serial lanes \(4 transmit and 4 receive pairs s can reach speeds of 10 Gbps on a single link, supporting the growing needs of tomorrow\222s high-bandwidth sensors and downlinks, as well as high-performance payload processing applications 2  W HAT IS A S ER D ES    A SerDes or Ser ializer/Des erializer converts parallel data typically a data bus, to one or more serial data channels lanes serial data channels use differential signaling and a point to point configuration with a separate Transmit \(TX\separate Receive \(RX function comprising a lane.  The serial lane data rate will be 10 to 20 times faster than the parallel data rate.  SerDes can be stand-alone functions like Honeywell\222s Trivor standard product or embedded like Honeywell's SerDes macro into an ASIC.  Both perform data serializing/deserializing formatting and encoding/decoding.  Specifically, a SerDes translates parallel bus data into serial data, formats it to the proper protocol and encodes and transmits it via high speed serial differential IO.  Th e SerDes receiver accepts highspeed serial differential input and decodes the serial data and converts it back into parallel data at system speed for further processing SerDes functionality is used in communications systems for point-to-point data transfer and in high-speed data networking applications such as routers, backplanes and access switches, storage area network equipment and highspeed automatic test equipmen t.  The use of Honeywell's SerDes ASIC macro and standard part, designed in 150nm SOI CMOS, increases bandwidth, decreases power consumption, and reduces th e required signal pins and board/backplane routes.  This equates to a significant reduction in overall system cost while greatly increasing system performance Figure 1 below shows a block diagram of a typical SerDes TX/RX link 3  S YSTEM A DVANTAGES OF A S ER D ES  High speed serial communica tion reduces package pin counts and backplane routes.  SerDes reduces the number of signal paths by a factor of 8.  This enables smaller, lighter boards along with smaller chips.  Cabling between electronic boxes is significantly reduced.   For example: an ASIC with 40 lanes at 2.5Gbps per lane provides 100 Gbps of transmitted data and 100 Gbps of received data using 160 pins \(80 differential pairs Using single-ended parallel IO running at 156Mbps, that same throughput \(200Gbps requires 1280 pins  SerDes increases the amount of data that can be reliably sent between devices.  For example, a single lane using SerDes can send up to 3.1875 Gbps while SpaceWire can send up to 200Mbps.  High speed serial communication moves a greatly increased amount of data and the adaptability of the transmitter and receiver functions greatly eases the routing of interconn ect media as the SerDes can compensate for unequal delays in lane routing  SerDes offers significantly lower power than parallel interfaces.   The reduced number of interconnects and the adaptability / programmability of the transmitter and receiver functions allow transmit voltage levels to be set to the minimum signaling level that provides reliable communication.  Individual lanes may be turned off when not in use for further power savings 4  W HAT P ROTOCOLS ARE S UPPORTED    Honeywell\222s SerDes Macro and standard part support data transmission for the following protocols and applications 
200  1G Fibre Channel \226 8 lanes \(TX and  RX operating at 1.0625Gbps 200  2G Fibre Channel \226 8 lanes \(TX and  RX operating at 2.125Gbps 200  10G Fibre Channel XAUI \226 2 ports \(A and B\ of four lanes operating at 3.1875Gbps per lane.  The lanes are trunked together consistent with 10G Fibre Channel protocol 200  1 Gigabit Ethernet \226 8 lanes \(TX and  RX operating at 1.25Gbps 
 


  3 
200  10 Gigabit Ethernet XAUI \226 2 ports \(A and B\ of four lanes operating at 3.125Gbps per lane.  The lanes are trunked together consistent with 10G Ethernet protocol 
200  General backplane applications between 1.0625 and 3.1875 Gbps utilizing either Fibre Channel or Gigabit Ethernet protocols 200  Other 8b/10b protocols with user supplied Physical Media Attachment \(PMA\layer and Physical Coding Sub-Layer \(PCS  IP such as Serial Rapid IO       Figure 1  SerDes IO Linkage 
 


  4  5  W HAT F EATURES ARE S UPPORTED    
200  Eight independent 10-bit high-speed Serializer circuits 
200  Eight independent 10-bit high-speed Deserializer circuits 200  Eight independent Clock and Data Recovery \(CDR 200  One integrated CMU is used to provide a high speed clock for all eight SerDes lanes 200  Ability to independently power down any transmit or receive on any lane 200  Programmable transmitter pre-emphasis, 8 levels 200  Programmable transmitter output signal amplitude, 8 levels 200  Programmable receiver equalization, 8 levels 200  Programmable receiver loss of signal detection 200  On-chip, 100-ohm resistor termination on the transmitter 200  Designed for an AC-coupled serial interface 200  Receive Byte Alignment and 8b/10b decode logic 200  Transmit 8b/10b encoding 200  XAUI lane to lane de-skewing \(trunking and clock offset \(clock skew compensation 200  Parallel interface using SSTL-2 buffers on standard part 200  Internal pattern generator and comparator circuitry for Built In Self Test \(BIST\d at-speed diagnostics 200  Supports hardware only mode of operation and does not require microprocessor interface for basic mode of operation 200  Parallel loopback of data from the decoder to the encoder 200  Serial loopback from the serializer to the CDR 200  Supports an absolute reference clock frequency deviation within +/- 100 ppm from the nominal frequency 200  Supports +/- 200 ppm deviation from the line data rate to the local data rate 200  Less than 200mW/Lane typical at 3.125Gbps 200  BER Lower than 10E-14 at 3.1875Gb/s 200  BER Lower than 10E-17 at 2.125Gb/s  6  S ER D ES C ONFIGURATION  In Figure 5 below we see the configuration of the Honeywell standard part.   It is configured as a redundant quad \(dual four-lane\ce.  The HX5000 ASIC macro is configured with the eight fully independent parallel interfaces. When the macro is used in an ASIC, multiple instantiations of the macro can be used to create 16, 24, 32 and 40 SerDes lanes 7  S ERIAL T RANSMITTER  The high-speed serial transm it interface has a total of 8 lanes.  The data rates for each lane range from 1.0625 Gbps to 3.1875 Gbps.  Port A and Port B both include 4 lanes of SerDes transmitter and receiver pairs.  Each function described can be applied to an individual lane or a Port.  For 10Gbps applications, the data for the 4 lanes is grouped Each lane can be controlled independently including on/off control, data rate, signal levels, pre-emphasis and equalization Each transmit lane receives data from an 8 bit parallel bus through SSTL-2 input buffers \(standard part\lane is 8b/10b encoded, serialized and transmitted.  A transmit FIFO is used to separate the clock domains of the incoming transmit data from the serializer clock domain and control the amount of lane-to-lane skew to within \261100ps.  If configured for a XAUI mode, th en the four individual lanes are aligned inside the transmit FIFO 
 


  5 The standard part provides transmitter redundancy in the form of two sets of SerDes ports \(A & B\e transmit buffer includes internal 100 differential termination resistance, and is designed to drive an AC coupled channel In Figure 6 below we see the configuration of the Serial Transmitter  Figure 2  3.125 Gb/s Eye Diagram   8  8B10B  E NCODING AND E QUALIZATION  High speed serial communication compresses data onto a differential pair of lines or tr aces, this increases data rates going through the channel.  The un-coded frequency content of binary data creates DC wandering, both of which affect the quality of the signal waveform at the receiver For ideal transmission lines or traces on a board, a step function propagated along the lines will not experience any change in the wave shape For this to happen, a step function or pulse, which is composed of an infinite Fourier\spectrum, will require phase velocity independence on an applied frequency, and the absence of line attenuation to allow the linear addition of these frequency components to reconstruct the original signal without alteration In real line conditions, the seri es resistance is not zero, and the phase velocity is depende nt on the applied frequency The latter causes dispersion; i.e., the propagation velocity will differ for the various frequencies and hence add destructively.  The former results in signal attenuation and is also a function of frequency. This dispersion due to channel condition will cause inter-symbol interference on the transmitted data.  This affect of attenuation and dispersion caused by line conditions needs to be corrected or equalized at the receiver function In binary data transmission, data is transmitted on a digital line, the simplest code format is unipolar in which the digital data of zero\222s and one\222s are pulsed into the transmission line with presen ce and absence of data, or encoded with high or low voltage.  Line condition explained above will cause inter-symbol interference and attenuations To be able to recover the transmitted data, there are three significant issues that need to be corrected.  First, timing information must be extracted from the data stream, The transmission of a long sequence of one\222s or zero\222s will result in no transitions and hence will allow timing and phase error to accumulate.  Secondly, these long sequences of inactivity will also result in dc wandering. No transition in data sequence is dc energy in frequency spectrum. Third attenuation and inter-symbol interference has to be equalized. Advanced signal processing techniques are employed in the transmitter and receiver for high fidelity data reliability and required bit error rate A line coding scheme known as 8B10B coding, takes in eight bits of data, modulates the binary bits and adds two additional bits. The coding algorithm works on an eight bit block and keeps a running average of ones and zeroes between consecutive sets of eight bit data streams. A combinational logic acting on this running average between set of eight bits is used to encode the remaining two bits to create a set of 10 bits and guarantee a DC balanced 10 bits output.  This is called run length encoding.  Furthermore, a constraining polynomial based algorithm is used to force transitions and hence randomize the eight bits within the packet.  This line coding method guarantees a balanced set of ten bits, with no DC energy, allows error control command and control features.  Notice in figure 2, minimal energy at zero frequency of the 8B10B spectrum. The additional two bits translates into twenty percentage loss of data throughput, however they provide  forward error correction and monitoring capability independent of higher layer protocol  Figure 3 8B10B Spectrum  
 


  6 9  S ERIAL R ECEIVER  The high speed serial receiver interface has a total of 8 lanes.  The data rates for each lane range from 1.0625 Gbps to 3.1875 Gbps.  Port A and Port B both include 4 lanes of SerDes transmitter and receiver pairs.  Each function described can be applied to an individual lane or a Port.  For 10Gbps applications, the data for the 4 lanes is grouped Each lane can be controlled independently including on/off control, data rate, Loss of Signal Detection and equalization At higher data rates, channel dispersion will cause significant signal degradation and results in InterSymbol Interference \(ISI\at the given symbol rate.  To reduce this some form of line equalization is required.  Channel equalization can be done at both the transmitter and the receiver.  At the transmitter, th e signal is pre-distorted based on channel response.  Hence the received signal is undistorted.  Another method called the Decision Feedback Equalizer \(DFE\es by subtracting the ISI arising from the previous detected da ta that arises from channel loss, reflections and high frequency cross talk.  Honeywell uses the combination of pre-emphasis filter in the transmitter and equalizer in the receiver to achieve highly reliable data throughput Each receive lane receives data through a high speed differential serial receiver Loss of Signal Detection equalization and byte alignment take place in the first block of the receiver.  The Clock and Data Recovery unit \(CDR will recover a clock from the incoming 8b/10b encoded data stream.  The transitions in the di gital data stream are used to maintain frequency lock with incoming data.  The high speed serial data will then be de-serialized into a 10-bit word,  8b/10b decoded and sent out on SSTL-2 transmit buffers \(standard part\hen in XAUI modes, the data from 4 lanes is trunked together to form one 40-bit word.  A receive FIFO is used to tran sfer from the recovered clock domain to the system clock domain Receiver redundancy is provided in the standard part by two sets of SerDes ports \(A & B\hile all 8 receive lanes in the standard part can be active at once, only one port can send data to the SSTL-2 parallel interface at one time.  This implementation differs from the ASIC macro where a full parallel bus is provided.  The receive buffer includes internal 100 differential termination resistance, and is designed to be driven from an AC coupled channel In Figure 7 below we see the configuration of the Serial Receiver An eye diagram of a severely distorted signal due to lossy cabling is shown in Figure 4a The data was recovered by the SerDes receiver for both waveforms in Figure 4 below despite the distortion  Figure 4a  Eye Diagram of a Lossy Received signal   Figure 4b  Increase Pre-Emphasis  10  P ARALLEL I NTERFACE  The parallel interface at the output of each receive lane provides a differential clock and 8 bits of data as well as a comma detect and an error det ect signal.  The data format on the 8 bit interface will depend on the selected protocol and whether or not the 8b/10b decoder is enabled.  If the decoder is disabled, an encoded 10 bit word will be transmitted.  The parallel in terface at the input of each transmit lane will receive a clock and 8 bits of data to be encoded and serialized.  If the encoder is disabled, 10 bits of 8b/10b encoded data must be provided The parallel interface on the standard part operates in a Dual Data Rate \(DDR\mode for all protocol configurations with the exception of 1G Ethernet which is Single Data Rate SDR\s setting can be configured by the use of internal registers.  The standard part parallel interface is implemented using 2.5V SSTL-2 buffers 
 


  7    JT A G MDC/MDIO CM U  PLL and Clo cks  Configuration and Control Regist er s 4 Ch an n el s Por t A 4 Channels Port B RX  2:1 M UX 4 Ch an n el s Por t A 4 Ch an n e ls Po r t B Parallel Interface 4 Channels 4 Chan n els Por t  A  RX Diff Pairs    TX Diff Pairs  10 + CLK RX0 _A  RX1_A RX2 _A  RX3_ A TX0_A TX1_A TX2 _A  TX3_A 10 + CLK 10 + CLK 10 + CLK 2 2 2 2 10 + CLK 10 + CLK 10 + CLK 10 + CLK Po rt B RX Diff Pairs    TX Diff Pairs  RX0 _B RX1 _B RX2 _ B RX3 _B TX0_B TX1_B TX2_B TX3_B 10 + CLK 10 + CLK 10 CLK 10 + CLK 10 + CLK 10 + CLK 10 + CLK 10 CLK 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 10 + CLK 10 CLK 10 + CLK 10 + CLK RX  RXD_ 0 RXD_ 1 RXD_2 RXD_3 10 CLK 10 + CLK 10 + CLK 10 + CLK TX TXD_0 TXD_1 TXD_2 TXD_3  Figure 5   Standard Part SerDes Configuration     Figure 6   Serial Transmitter 
 


  8   Figure 7   Serial R eceiver block Diagram 11  M ANAGEMENT I NTERFACE  For internal control register access, the standard part includes a MDC/MDIO serial management interface per clause 45 of IEEE 802.3ae 12  C ONCLUSION  The Honeywell Rad-Hard SerDes ASIC macro and standard part provide a unique capability for next-generation RadHard networking applications.  Communication networks developed with SerDes-embedded integrated circuits achieve significantly lower power, higher data throughput and more efficient board and chip area usage than traditional approaches for high-speed backplanes, box-tobox networking systems and chip to chip communications The flexible design allows s upport of multiple protocols and independent lane control while providing controls to optimize performance for each channel medium     
 


  9  Table 1 Definitions and Acronyms 1GE 1.25 Gbps Ethernet 1GFC 1.0625 Gbps Fibre Channel 2GFC 2.125 Gbps Fibre Channel 3GFC 3.1875 Gbps Fibre Channel per lane \226 same as 10GFC for 4 lanes 10GE XAUI 4x3.125 Gbps 10 Gigabit Ethernet Attachment Unit Interface 10GFC XAUI 4x3.1875 Gbps 10 Gigabit Fibre Channel Attachment Unit Interface BIST Built In Self Test CDR Clock and Data Recovery CMU Clock Multiplier Unit \226 Also called Phase Locked Loop \(PLL DDR Dual Data Rate Gbps Gigabits per second JTAG Joint Test Action Group Lane A lane is a SerDes transmit and receive pair. One lane supports full duplex communications MAC Media Access Controller Port A port consists of 4 SerDes Lanes SDR Single Data Rate SesDes Serializer/Deserializer SSTL-2 Stub Series Terminated Logic UI Unit Interval XGMII 10 Gigabit-Media Independent Interface  
 


  10  R EFERENCES    8 10 M odul at i on C odes for Di gi t a l M a gnet i c R ecordi ng S.Fukuda etal, IEEE Transactions on Magnetics Vol MAG-22, No. 5. September 1986  A 2.125- Gp/s BiCMOS Fiber Channel Transm itter for Serial Data Communications Muneo Fukaishi, etal, IEEE Journal of SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, vol 34, NO. 9 September 1999  B i nary C onvol ut i onal C odes wi t h  Appl i cat i on t o  M a gnet i c  Recording, Calderbank et al, IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. IT-32, NO. 6, November 1986  B IOGRAPHY  Dr. David Bueno is a Senior Systems Engineer in the Advanced Development Group of Honeywell\222s Space Electronic Systems departme nt. David specializes in modeling and simulation of computer systems and networks for next-generation space app lications. David\222s research interests include polymorphous and multi-core computing technologies, as well as high-performance interconnects for space systems. David received his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Florida in 2006, where his graduate research focused on RapidIO networks for Space-Based Radar applications Weston Roper is a Technical Manager in the mixed Signal Design Group of Honeywell\222s Semiconductor Engineering Department Gary Roosevelt is a Field Applications Engineer in the Honeywell Microelectronics Business Unit.  Gary supports customers in the selection and use of honeywell\222s ASIC and Standard product lines.  Gary has previously served in similar roles at Fujitsu Microelectronics, Atmel and AMI Gary received his BSEE in El ectrical Engineering from the University of Illinois Jamal Haque is a Staff Systems Engineer at Honeywell Aerospace division.  He received the M.S and B.S degrees in electrical engineering from University of South Florida He holds several patents in communication systems and image processing systems.   Prior to Honeywell he worked at Lucent technology, Rockwell International and AT&T where he worked on Sirius Satellite Radio, ADSL and V.34 modem research and development Thomas Romanko  is an Electrical Engineer who has been with Honeywell for 25 years. He has an extensive background in integrated circuits for radiation-hardened space applications, high-te mperature, and wireless communications He is currently in the Business Development Group as Technical Customer Interface a nd Applications Engineer for High Temperature and Radiation Hardened products, which serves both commercial and aerospace applications. He is located at Honeywell Aerospace in Plymouth, MN which is a Silicon On Insulator \(SOI      
 


  11 The choice of an SVM for recognition is based upon multiple considerations.  First, at a top level, the use of the simulation models for scenario and clutter should be optimal for recognition.  But, using these models for recognition will not create a r obust detection system.  For instance, in real situations scenarios can be reordered subject to their dependencies.  Using the generation model to detect a rearranged scenario in this case will result in a low detector score and probably a miss by the detector Therefore, separating the detection framework from the simulation framework is critical in our modeling.  Other reasons for choosing an SVM are its flexibility in incorporating multiple feat ure types, good detector performance, and a well-developed tool set We consider two types of modeling for the SVM.  First, we used bag-of-events \(BOE\odeling.  The features in this situation are the counts of n grams of events in a transaction stream.  By event, we mean the predicate name only and not its arguments.  For instance, for a predicate Meets\(Bob,John we only record only the fact that Meets  takes place and not the specific actors.  The second type of SVM modeling uses bag-of-eve nts and bag-of-arguments combined together SVM BOEA In this case, since we are using a typed ontology, we only use ngrams of types that cover a general scenario.  For instance, in our experiments we do not include names of specific people in our n gram representation, since they could be arbitrarily renamed.  An example in this case, is that if the predicate was Recon\(Bob,White House then the output ngrams \(for unigram events and bigram arguments\d be Recon_White, Recon_White_House, Recon_House  The SVM kernel for both approaches is based upon a linearized likelihood ratio kernel presented in Campbell Not e t h at i n bot h t y pes of SVM  m odel s  we only have partial information about the sequence ordering because of n grams.  This technique ensures some robustness to scenario reordering The difficulty, in general, with designing classifier features based on predicates and their arguments is that the representation space is large and has both discrete and continuous aspects \(e.g., names of individuals, ages of individuals\so, there is a tradeoff between features representing specific versus generic aspects of an entity For instance, naming specific terrorist targets such as buildings or people may be of interest in detecting some scenarios.  In other scenarios, we may be looking only for generic aspects of targets\227nationality, ownership infrastructure role, etc.  These issues are certainly a topic of future research Experiments In our first set of experiments, we constructed a scenario from the Jakarta Embassy bombing that occurred on Sept. 9 2004.  The basic outline of events was taken from approximately 50 open source new articles.  We found that a reasonable timeline of events could be gleaned from open sources, but that specific tr ansaction were difficult to document.  In some cases, details from court records highlighted in articles provided interesting insight.  From these open sources, we constructed a series of hypothetical transactions consistent with the scenario and coded a simulation model in TADL Experiments were performed using the setup in Figure 7 For our first set of experiments, we generated scenario transactions using a uniform prior for clutter transactions We generated simulated training and test data using the TADL interpreter.  An SVM with a unigram BOE model was used as a detector.  Initially, we considered various percentages of observation of the scenario and interleaving We swept the percentage of the scenario observed P from 0 to 100%.  We also swept the duty cycle D 227the percentage of scenario transactions to clutter \(as shown in the interleaving in Figure 7\\227up to 25%.  Note that the interleaving is done randomly.  The equal error rate \(EER Pmiss=Pfa\parameters for a clutter network of 1000 actors is shown in Figure 8.  Several observations can be made from this figure.  First, for D and P greater than about 20% we are getting good performance Second, duty cycle appears to be the more significant parameter in the simulation process  As part of our experiments, we also tested the effect of the prior probability distribution for the clutter model on recognition performance.  We tried to match the prior for clutter transactions closer to the actual scenario.  As expected, this created a more challenging detection task.  A DET curve comparing uniform clutter and more challenging clutter is shown in Figure 9 We remark at this point that the simulations for the Jakarta scenario were a proof of concept for intent recognition D   d u t y  c y c l e  P   p e r c e n t a g e s c e n a r i o  EER  Figure 8: EER performance of the Jakarta SVM Scenario Detector with varying parameters 
 


  12 One difficulty with a known scenario is that it is essentially 223linear\224; i.e., there is very little variation in the ordering of events.  Also, the data simulation is known and matches the experimenters\222 pre-conceived concept of the problem; i.e there is no red-teaming in the process  As a next step, we considered other sources of data.  We found that the Ali Baba simulated data set provided an interesting second way of testing our system.  As in our social network analysis experiments, we use the synthetic documents from scenario 1 of the Ali Baba data set, which includes labeling of scenario vs clutter for each transaction For our experiments, we formed two teams.  One team took the Ali Baba documents and hand-annotated transactions using the TADL ontology.  Another team constructed a TADL simulation based only upon a high-level overview of the scenario.  The goal in this case was to see if a scenario could be detected given only a minimal top-level description Our experiments used the TADL simulator to generate data and train an SVM scenario detector as in Figure 7.  Initially we constructed a clutter model based upon event priors from the Ali Baba data set.  For the SVM, we used a BOEA model where the events were unigrams and the arguments were all ngrams up to 4.  Person arguments were excluded from the BOEA modeling Results for the detection using various subsets of the annotated document sequence are shown in Figure 10.  Note that the Ali Baba data set has only one scenario instance, so in order to generate multiple trials we had to Monte Carlo sample the scenario.  The sampling was always performed with a time window covering the required duration \(e.g 25%\utter only was desired then the terrorist scenario documents were removed from the sequence.  From the figure, we note that as we observe more of the scenario the EER drops.  With about 85% observation of the scenario the detection performance is good  We performed another set of experiments where we sampled a small amount of the clutter \(about 5%\and then used this as training data for the false class for the SVM Training data for the true trials was done using the TADL simulated output.  The results of this set of experiments are shown in Figure 11.  We see that the detection performance improves dramatically Uniform Clutter EER=4 More Realistic Clutter EER=25  Figure 9: Jakarta simulated scenario detection with different clutter generation models P=0.6  D=0.1   Figure 11: Ali Baba Scen ario Detection with clutter sampled from the Ali Baba data set  Figure 10: Ali Baba Scenario Detection with a simulated event prior 
 


  13 The Ali Baba and Jakarta experiments illustrate several points.  First, modeling of the prior for clutter should be a key part of the detection process.  Theoretically, if we have a large data source, the parameters of the clutter model can be learned automatically.  The example of using samples of the Ali Baba data illustrates if we have an \223oracle\224 prior then good detection is possible \(compare Figure 10 and Figure 11 ments illustrate that the process of simulation and recognition can be decoupled The scenario detector does not have to be of the same complexity as the simulation.  In fact, a simpler detector may be more robust.  A third point illustrated by our experiments is that significant wo rk is needed in features for simulation and recognition.  Our BOEA model uses very specific features that may not generalize well.  One way to think of the process is as a query task.  We would like to give TADL examples that produce detectors that generalize to unseen situations Relation to prior work Our work in intent recognition is related to prior work in plan or goal recognition.  We have highlighted some references for this area in Section 4.  Our current approach is statistical and is thus distinct from classical plan recognition.  Our general methodology is comparable to the ASAM system [Pattipati06 b u t o u r sp ecific d etectio n  strategy using an SVM is distinct from the prior work in this area 7  O NGOING AND F UTURE W ORK  LL-SNAIR Corpus Development One of the main difficulties we found when first considering this work is the lack of truth-marked data for development.  Ideally, having raw data and markings such as a social network structure, ro les, and events and clutter in a scenario is critical to benchmarking and developing algorithms.  Although some data is available, it is usually incomplete; for instance, a soci al network may be available but the documents it was derived from are not.  One goal for future work is to develop truth-marked corpora for algorithm development and validation of technologies.  We plan to create corpora using open source scenarios and documents with a mix of simulated and real data Future R&D Directions The area of social network anal ysis with respect to intent recognition contains many opportunities for additional research.  In particular, we will consider community detection algorithms that allow actors to be members of more than one group as well as provide probabilistic features of group membership fo r intent recognition.  This should help avoid the pitfalls of making hard decisions early in the pattern recognition process.  Dynamic features of social networks, particularly those which can aid in intent recognition, represent additi onal research opportunities In the area of intent recogniti on, there are many areas of possible future research.  For simulation, we plan to create more sophisticated scenarios and tools to address the issue of partial ordering of events.  For recognition, we want to combine social network analysis, entity attributes, etc. into the intent recognition process to improve generalization 8  S UMMARY AND C ONCLUSIONS  This paper introduced a framework of social network analysis and intent recognition from multimedia input.  We demonstrated our framework in the context of multiple sources of data\227actual text documents, simulated threat scenarios, and the Ali Baba data set.  Also, we showed there is a significant need for corpor a with truth-marked social network structure and threat s cenarios.  Overall, further research on this area should focus on building both data sets real and simulated\gorithms for recognition to understand the challenges and benchmark performance A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  Our work is greatly indebted to the guidance of Zachary Lemnios of MIT Lincoln Laboratory and Robert Popp of National Security Innovations.  Both of these individuals provided key inputs and ideas to guide our research process R EFERENCES   H Tu, S. Singh, K. Pattipati and P. Willett, \223Detecting, Tracki ng  and Counterac ting Terrorist Networks via Hidden Markov Models,\224 IEEE  Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, MT, March 2004  Blayl  N B l ay l o ck and Jam e s Al l e n, \223Generat i ng artificial corpora for plan rec ognition,\224 in Liliana Ardissono Paul Brna, and Antonija Mitrovic, editors,  User Modeling 2005, number 3538 in Lecture Note s in Artificia l Intelligence pages 179-188. Springer, Edinburgh, July 24-29 2005  Bikel  D. M B i kel R L. Schwart z and R M  Weischedel. 1999. An algorithm that learns what\222s in a name Machine Learning, vol. 34, no. 1-3  Boschee E. B o schee, R W e i s chedel and A. Zam a ni an Automatic Information Extrac tion, Proceedings of the 2005 International Conference on Intelligence Analysis, McLean VA, 2-4 May 2005  Brachma R J. B r achm a n and H J Levesque Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2004  Campbell W M C a m pbel l J. P. C a m pbel l  T P Gleason, D. A. Reynolds, and W Shen, \223Speaker Verification using Support Vector Machines and High-Level Features,\224 
 


  14 IEEE Trans. Audio, Speech a nd Language Processing, Sept 2007, vol. 15, no. 7, pp. 2085-2094  Carley een. \223Destabilizing Terrorist Networks, \223Proceedings of the 8th International Command and Control Research and Technology Symposium conference held at the National Defense War College Washington DC. Evidence Based Research, Track 3 Electronic Publication  Carley C a rl ey Kat h l een & C o l u m bus, Dave DeReno, Matt & Reminga, Jeffrey & Moon, Il-Chul. \(2008 ORA User's Guide 2008. Carnegie Mellon University, School of Computer Science, Institute for Software Research Technical Report CMU-ISR-08-125  Chakrabarti  D C h akrabart i Y. Zhan, and C  Faloutsos. R-mat: A recursive model for graph mining. In SDM, 2004  Coffm Thay ne R C o ffm an Sherry  E M a rcus Dynamic Classification of Groups Through Social Network Analysis and HMMs,  2004 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings  C P. R C ohen and C T. M o rri son 223The HATS simulator,\224 Proc. of the 2004 Winter Simulation Conference 2004  Csardi G C s ardi T Nepusz The i g raph soft ware package for complex network research, - InterJournal Complex Systems, 2006  Die Di esner, Jana C a rl ey  Kat h l een 2005 Exploration of Communication Networks from the Enron Email Corpus. Proceedings of the Workshop on Link Analysis, Counterterrorism and Security, SIAM International Conference on Data Mining 2005, pp. 3-14. Newport Beach CA, April 21-23, 2005., 3-14  Doddingt G. Doddi ngt on A M i t c hel l   M   Pryzbocki, L. Ramshaw, S. Strassel, R. Weischedel, The Automatic Content Extraction \(ACE\gram Tasks, Data and Evaluation, Proceeding of LREC 2004 Conference on Language resources and Evaluation    D A. Gerdes, C Gl y m our, and J. R a m s ey  223Who\222s Calling? Deriving Organization Structure from Communication Records,\224 in Information Warfare and Organizational Decision Making, ed. Alexander Kott, 2007  Gi Gi rvan M and Newm an M E. J., Proc. Nat l  Acad. Sci. USA 99, 7821-7826 \(2002  Howe04  Howe D., \223Planning Scenarios E x e c u t i v e  Summaries,\224 The Homeland Security Council, 2004  Jakarta 2004 Wikipedi 2232004 Aust ral i a n Em bassy  Bombing,\224http://en.wikipedia org/wiki/2004_Australian_em bassy_bombing.\224   Proxi m i t y 4.3 QGraph Gui d e Novem b er 2007 http://kdl.cs.umass.edu/proximity/documentation/QGraphGui de.pdf  Kum a gi, ed., \223N ine Cautionary Tales,\224 IEEE Spectrum, Sept. 2006, pp. 36-45  McCallum Joi n t Group and Topi c Di scovery  from  Relations and Text. Andrew McCallum, Xuerui Wang and Natasha Mohanty, Statistical Network Analysis: Models Issues and New Directions, Lecture Notes in Computer Science 4503, pp. 28-44, \(Book chapter   D Jensen Relational Dependency Networks. Journal of Machine Learning Research. 8 \(March, 2007\ 653-692 http://jmlr.csail.mit.edu/papers/volume8/neville07a/neville07a pdf  Newman M E. J. Newm an \(2006 odul ari t y and community structure in networks". Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA 103: 8577\2268582    223Aut om at i c C ont ent Ext ract i on 2008 Eval uat i on Plan,\224 http://www.nist.gov/speech/tests/ace  Oliv J. Ol i v e Gl obal  Aut onom ous Language Exploitation \(GALE\ description http://www.darpa.mil/ipto/p rograms/gale/gale.asp  Popp  R   Popp and J. Yen \(edi t o rs Em ergent  Information Technologies and Enabling Policies for CounterTerrorism \(in this comprehensive reference see especially chapter 2, Hidden Markov Models and Bayesian Networks for Counter-Terrorism by K. Pa ttipati, et. al.\IEEE Press 2006  Popp R. Popp, K. Pattipati, P. W illett, D. Serfaty, W   Stacy, K. Carley, J. Allanach, H. Tu and S. Singh 223Collaborative Tools for Counte r-Terrorism Analysis,\224 IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, MT, March 2005   Pattipati P.K. Willett, J. Allanach, H Tu and S. Singh, \223Hidden  Markov Models and Bayesian Networks for Counter-terrorism,\224  R. Popp and J. Yen editors\Emergent Information Technologies  and Enabling Policies for Counter Terrorism, Wiley-IEEE Press,  May 2006, pp. 27-50  Sandl  
Todd Sandler and Kevin Siqueira, \221\221Games and Terrorism: Recent Developmen ts,\222\222 Simulation & Gaming Sep 2003; vol. 34: pp. 319 - 337   Donat, J. Lu, K. Pattipati, and P Willett, \223An Advanced System for Modeling Asymmetric 
 


  15 Threats,\224 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, October 2006  B IOGRAPHY  Clifford J. Weinstein leads the Information Systems Technology Group at MIT Lincoln Laboratory and is responsible for initiating and managing research programs in speech technology, machine translation, and information assurance. He received S.B., S.M and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from MIT. He has made technical contributions and carried out leadership roles in research programs in speech recognition, speech c oding, machine translation speech enhancement, packet speech communications information system assuran ce and survivability, integrated voice/data communication networks, digital signal processing, and radar signal processing. In 1993, Dr Weinstein was elected to th e Board of Governors of the IEEE Signal Processing Socie ty. From 1991-93, he was chairman of the IEEE Signal Pr ocessing Society's Technical Committee on Speech Processing. In 1976-78, he was chairman of that Society's Technical Committee on Digital Signal Processing. In 1993, Dr. Weinstein was elected as a Fellow of the IEEE for tec hnical leadership in speech recognition, packet speech and integrated voice/data networks. From 1986-1998, Dr. Weinstein was U.S technical specialist on the NATO RSG10 \(now IST-01 Speech Research Group, in which capacity he authored a comprehensive NATO report and journal article on opportunities for applications of advanced speech technology in military systems. From 1989-1994, he was chairman of the coordinating committee for the DARPA Spoken Language Systems Program, which was the major U.S. research program in speech recognition and understanding, and which involved coordinated efforts of a number of leading U.S. research groups. From 1999-2003 he served on the DARPA Information Sciences and Technology \(ISAT\ Panel, a group which provides DARPA with continuing assessments of the state of advanced information science and technology, and its relationship to DoD issues  Dr. Campbell is a technical staff member in the Information Systems Technology group at MIT Lincoln Laboratory.  He received his PhD in Applied Mathematics from Cornell University in 1995 Prior to joining MIT Lincoln Laboratory, he worked at Motorola on biometrics, speech interfaces, wearable computing, and digital communications.  His current research interests include machine learning, speech pro cessing, and social network analysis  Brian Delaney member of the Technical Staff at MIT Lincoln Laboratory where he has worked on statistical methods for machine translation of speech input as well as more recent efforts in social network analysis.  He received his Ph.D degree in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2004. He is a member of the IEEE  Gerald C. O\222Leary received S.B and S.M. degrees in Electrical Engineering and the Electrical Engineer degree from M.I.T in 1964 and 1966.  From 1966 to 1971, he worked at MITRE Corp in the Advanced Radar Techniques Department.  From 1971 to 1977, he worked for Signal Processing Systems Inc. in the area of programmable digital processors for communications applications.  In 1977 he joined the Technical Staff of M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory.  There he has served as Associate Leader of the Information Systems Technology Group from 1984 to 1998 and of the Tactical Communications Systems Group from 1998 to 2000.  He has worked in the areas of satellite communications, speech processing, digital networking and information security He is currently a Senior Staff in the Information Systems Technology Group.  He is a member of the IEEE  
 


  16  
 


 17 Satellite Communications Division  


engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial processes, neurotechnology and cardiotechnology, and unmanned systems. His research work has been sponsored by government and industry and has published over 250 technical papers in his area of expertise. He is the lead author of a book on "Intelligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis of Engineering Systems" published by Wiley in 2006. He is the recipient of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Activities award and the ECE Distinguished Professor award Romeo de la Cruz del Rosario, Jr. is the Chief of the Electronics Technology Branch at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. He also serves as the Army Technology Objective ATO P&amp;D Operational Readiness and Condition Based Maintenance He received the B.E.E. degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and the M.S.E. and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Since 1991 he has been an engineer at the Harry Diamond Laboratory then U.S Army Research Laboratory working in several areas including high power microwave technology characterization &amp; modeling of heterostructure RF devices and fabrication and failure analysis of electron devices and circuits  pre></body></html 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





