A Rule Discovery Algorithm Appropriate for Electrocardiograph Signals S Konias N Maglaveras Laboratory of Medical Informatics Medical School Aristotle University of Thessaloniki Greece Abstract In this paper the problem of discovering rules, which are associations among patterns in the same time series is considered A novel algorithm, namely Rule Discovery Algorithm RDA appropriate for periodic time series data, like Electrocardiograms ECGs can be considered is proposed The first phase of the algorithm aims to break the sequence i.e 
an ECG into overlapping reconfigured length subsequences according o the sampling frequency and the types of ECG abnormalities to be studied The Pearson Correlation Coeficient was chosen as the categorization metric which is ifidependent of the base line shifts and the amplitude scales At the following phase the categorized sequence was scanned so the most eficient rules would be mined The format of those rules is 223IF A occurs THEN B occurs WITHIN time T\224 where A and B are categorized subsequences and T the time duration between 
A and B RDA was evaluated on 60 congestive heart failure patients\222 ECGs from a home care monitoring database The mined rules are complementary to the ECGs\222 plots allowing the physician to test various hypotheses and discover hidden knowledge 1 Introduction Data Mining DM is a new and interdisciplinary field merging ideas from statistics artificial intelligence and databases Its main motivation is the phenomenal growth of data in all domains of human knowledge including medicine and the need of discovering valid and useful information from the collected data Mining association rules 
in demographic dataset is one of the most popular data mining technique To our knowledge association rules have firstly proposed in I aiming at capturing significant dependences between items in transactional datasets like market basket analysis and financial analysis For instance in market basket analysis where the items are the things bought and itemsets are several items together an association rule could be the 223Beer+chips 83 which states that 83 of the times someone buys Beer he or she also buys chips Generally an association rule is an expression of the form 223X+Y\224 
where X and Y are sets of items from a given transaction database The problem of mining association rules can be decomposed into two subproblems firstly finding all frequent itemsets and secondly generating alt mIes with support the most frequent and confidence the most efficient higher than specified thresholds However many algorithms have suggested for extracting rules from transaction databases 2,3 During the last years there has been a great research investment in data mining information seeking knowledge building in medicine 4-61  In 4 an uncertainty rule algorithm 
named Uncertainty Rule Generation URG-2 is proposed appropriate for discovering rules with confidence higher that a reconfigured threshold URG-2 inines rules from dynamic databases containing missing values without the need of recovering the already existing itemsets from the beginning In SI an improvement of the aforementioned algorithm called Adaptive Uncertainty Rule Generation AURG is illustrated In this paper a novel algorithm namely Rule Discovery Algorithm \(RDA appropriate for mining rules from periodic time series like Electrocardiographs ECGs is proposed The format of the extracted rules is 223IF A occurs THEN B occurs WITHIN time 
T\224 where A and B are categorized subsequences and T the time duration between A and B The remaining part of the paper is organized as follows In Section 2 the problem of time series categorization and its solutions are presented Section 3 briefly reviews the rule format and the required metrics In Section 4 the RDA algorithm is described while in Section 5\222 the results of an experimental evaluation of our approach on ECGs\222coming from a home care database are provided. Finaily Section 6 concludes 
with the possibility of using the mined rules further in order to till missing parts in an ECG 2 Time series categorization To cluster a given time series which can be considered as sequence into subsequences distance notions are required Suppose it sequence s={x x2  x and a window\222s length w are given Then a11 subsequences sl sz  s length\222s w are obtained 0276-6547/04 20.00 8 U104 IEEE 57 Computers in Cardiology 2004;31:57-60 


where si xi xi+l  and be denoted as W\(s h=t 2  n-w+t 1 As a following task is to cluster the set of all subsequences W\(s The latter can be realized by trying the W\(s of length w as elements of R\224 and use various of distance metrics Euclidian distance is one of the most used in time series 7 and is defined as where 7=\(x  x and y=\(y  y Other alternative distance measures between time series can provide interesting results as well For instance, the general metrics and the k metric defined by  L_ maxi I xi y I 3 However for many applications one would like to see the shape of the subsequences as the main factor in distance determination 8 It is frequent for two subsequences to have essentially the same shape although they differ in their amplitudes and baselines One way of achieving this is by normalizing firstly the subsequences and then using one of the above metric on the normalized subsequence I A simple and well known way to normalize a sequence is by shifting the time series by its mean and then scaling by its standard deviation   x-avg\(F x std\(?l 4 where avg\(x is the average of TI and std\(SI is the standard deviation for iT  An alternative way to deal with the problem of the different baselines or amplitude scales among time series is the Pearson Correlation Coefficient similarity measure In this paper the above measure has selected which is widely used in statistical analysis pattem recognition and image processing 9 5 avg  y  avg\(qavg\(7 std\(X y corr\(T 7  where JI  7 is the inner product between jT and 7 The Pearson Correlation Coefficient ranges from 1 to 1 A negative coefficient indicates a negative relation while a positive coefficient indicates a positive relation 58 Finally a coefficient equal to zero indicates that the compared time series do not comprise any relation In this paper the Pearson Correlation Coefficient is chosen in order to find similar parts among an ECG 3 Rule format and metrics In this section the rules format which are mined from a set of categorized sequences and thexequired metrics are exemplified The rule format of those mined rules from an ECG is 223IF A occurs THEN B occurs WITHIN time T\224 where A and B are basic shapes appeared in the ECG i.e a value of the categorized sequence and T the time duration between A and B The previous rule can be written as 223A=>B within T\224 Given a categorized sequence the frequency f\(A of A is the number of occurrences of A in the sequence while the relative frequency of A called support is f\(A where n is the whole number of the values in the categorized sequence The confidence c\(A=>B within T of the rule 223A=>B within T\224 is the quotient of occurrences of A that are followed by B within T i.e where f\(A,B,T is the number of occurrences of A that followed by a B within T The above metrics are correspondingly to the well known notion of support and confidence in association rules l Support is used in order to mine the most frequent itemsets in a sequence while confidence is responsible for discovering the most efficient rules 4 The RDA algorithm As it is already mentioned RDA is an algorithm for discovering the most efficient association rules amongst subsequences in a sequence In this study sequences corresponds to ECGs when each subsequence corresponds to a waveform of the ECG The first phase in RDA algorithm is to define some parameters The initial sequence is categorized according to the windows length parameter and the correlation threshold If the correlation between two subsequences is higher than the specified threshold then they are categorized in the same category. Moreover a time step is required scanning the sequence Optionally a starting point and a search range can be selected otherwise the entire sequence will be scanned At last a minimum support and a minimum confidence are needed At the following phase the categorized sequence is scanned so that rules with support and confidence higher than the reconfigured thresholds to be mined For that reason for each possible value for T frequent\222of each 


f\(A,B,T is counting The number of possible rules is ab2 where a is the number of the different categories in the sequence and b is the number of different possibilities for T In Figure 1 the main idea of the RDA algorithm is demonstrated in pseudo code Rule-Discovery-Algorithm MinCorrelation for all subsequences si MinSupport MinConfidence, TimeStep for all already defined categories ci corr=correlation\(ci,s if corr>=MinCorrelation then define s as ci endfor if no category math then define si as a new category ck endfor for t=O;t<T;t=t+TimeStep for each categorized subsequence ci if itemset ci ci  is new one then add this itemset into to the itemset list and count itemsets  ci c  frequent endfor for each counted itemset  ci cj if I ci.ci Jb=MinSupport  I\(ci cj   ci}I>=MinConfidence then add the rule ci=>cj within t into to the rule list endfor Figure 1 RDA Algorithm 5 Experimental results In this study the used ECGs database was created at the Laboratory of Medical Informatics in the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki Greece It consists of ECGs of 11 Congestive Heart Failure 0 patients who participated in an EC project named CBS Citizen Health System between September 2001 and January 2003 IO The main goal of CHS was to develop a generic contact center which in its pilot stage could be used in the monitoring treatment and management of chronically ill patients at home in Greece, Spain and Germany Patients were able to communicate with the contact center via a variety of interfaces like public telephone Internet or a mobile device During the period of this project the heart failure patients were monitored for a period of 8-13 months and they were sending their ECG record with the help of electronic microdevices once a week We ran the RDA algorithm for each ECG separately over than five ECGs for each patient The initial ECGs 32 seconds duration were categorized into 100 values length subsequehses The standard metrics of 50 minimum confidence and a range of 75-90 minimum correlation were applied The correlation threshold was depended on the quality of the corresponding ECG as better quality a specific ECG had as higher threshold correlation was selected Applying those metrics a mean of 1643.7 ruleslECG were mined ranging from 1405 to 1912 A significant number of the extracted rules could be considered as diagnostic criteria  1 11 aiding the physician to estabIish various hypothesis For example in patient's number 1 I ECG 66.7 of the times his PR interval is following by T complex within 0,124 5d.008 seconds For patient's 2 ECG his TP segment is followed by QRS complex with in 0.266 O.OOS seconds with a confidence of 100 while in an other ECG of the same patient 85,7 of the times the duration of QRS complex and of PR interval is less than 0.3 seconds Figures 2 shows the graphs of the above examples 1 7 t e Figure 2 In a PR interval is following by T complex within 0,124 with confidence of 66.7 In b TP segment is followed by QRS complex with in 0.266 seconds with a confidence of 100 In c the duration of QRS complex and of PR interval is less than 0.3 seconds in 85.7 of the times From the previous examples the Initial ECGs was categorized into 100 values length subsequences using 90 for minimum correlation and 2 values length for the 59 


time step 6 Conclusion On the contrary from the previous algorithms that have mentioned before the RDA is an algorithm appropriate for discovering associations rules in periodic time series. Subsequences are considered as items in such rules RDA was evaluated on 60 ECGs coming from 11 congestive heart failure patients The results have expressed that RDA can be an complementary way to ECGs\222 plots allowing the physician to test various hypotheses and discovering hidden knowledge In the future an improved algorithm for RDA could be developed for filling missing parts in a periodic time series First of all the rules be obtained by the use of the RDA algorithm could be continuously combined in order to fill missing parts internally according to the rest of the time series. Particularly for each missing part only the corresponding rules have to be mined so that significant CPU time will be saved  Acknowledgements This 221work was supported in part by the EC projects ITV as well as by PROMESIP and IRAKLITOS both funded by the Greek Ministry of Education EPEAEK I  IT References IST 1999-13352-CHS IST-200 1 33369-PANACEIA Agrawal R Imiefinski T Swami A Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases In Proc of the ACM SIGMOD Intemational Conference on the Management of Data 1993 207-216 Zaki M J Parthasarathy S Ogihm M Li W New algorithms for fast discovery of association rules In Proc of the 3rd KDD Conference 1997 283-286 Shen L Shen H Cheng L New Algorithms for Efficient Mining of Association Rules Information Sciences 1999 4 Konias S Giaglis G.D Gogou G Bamidis P.D Maglaveras N Uncertainty Rule Generation on a Home Care Database of Heart Failure Patients In Proc of Computers in Cardiology IEEE Comp Soc. Press 2003 Vol 30 7651768 IS Konias S Bamidis P.D Maglaveras N Efficient Mining of Uncertainty Rules using Adaptive Thresholds in Medical Data In Proc of 3rd Hellenic Conference on Artificial Intelligence 2004 32-41 6 Lavrac N Machine Learning for Data Mining in Medicine I71 Das G tin K Mannila H Renganathan G Smyth P Rule Discovery from Time Series In Proc of Int Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 1998 16-22 8 Agrawal R Faloutsos C Swami A.N Efficient Similarity Sexch in Sequence Databases. In Proc. of 4th Intemational Conference of Foundations of Data Organization and Algorithms, Chicago 1993 69-84 9 Rodgers J.L Nicewander J.L Nicewander W.A Thirteen Ways to Look at the Correlation Coefficient American Statistician 42 1995 59-66 lo Maglaveras N Koutkias V Chouvarda I Goulis D.G Avramides A Adamidis D Louridas G Balas E.A Home Care Delivery through the Mobile Telecommunications Platform The Citizen Health System CHS Perspective International Journal of Medica1 Informatics 68 2002 99 111  111 Macfarlane P.W and Lawrie V Comprehensive Electrocardiology. Volume 3 Pergamon Press 1989 118,25 1-268 AIMDMP9 LNAI 1620 1999 47-62 Address for correspondence Sokratis Konias Aristotle University of Thessaloniki Lab of Medical Informatics POB 323 Thessaloniki 54 124 Greece E-mail address sohatis med.auth.gr 60 


indirectly associated via Necktie-U does not app in Table 3 This is beck at mediator support condition in TAN algorithm cannot be satisfied but the bridge support condition in IAM algorithm can be met We feed back this tule onto the market analyst of the supermarket and make an analysis with collaboration with them And we find the small value of support\(Mdress-U Necktie-U or support\(Lighter-U Necktie-U lies in the far distance in space between them caused by the division of Lady department and Gentleman department respectively located in different floors From the results of thcse two comparable experiments we can conclude that IAM algorithm can find more valuable indirect association rules than TAN algorithm especially when the mediator support condition in TAN algorithm cnnnot be satisfied  VI CONCLUSION This paper proposes an algorithm of indirect association mining-IAM When a pair of items A B which seldom OCUII together in the same transaction are highly dependent on the presence of another itemset Z we can say that the pair A B is indirectly associated via Z In this paper we fmtly give the definition of indirect association And then we provided a measure of dependence to estimate the correlation between frequently occurring items and a simple way to express the closeness between a pair of items We also put forward two kinds of classifying standard for indirect association rules for further research Then we presented the IAM algorithm and given the complexity analysis about this algorithm. Finally we made an experiment in order to verify the utility of IAM algorithm For future research there are several unresolved issues we need to address How to reduce the complexity of the IAM algorithm is a practical problem And we can make some extensions about this IAM algorithm This first kind of extension is to update this algorithm for the purpose of discovering the indirect association rules among multiple itemsets rather than a pair of items Another kind of extension is to upgrade this algorithm for mining higher order indirect association rules but how to defne a higher order indirect association must be taken into consideration seriously Other issues include how to choose the dependence function to suit for the specific situation how to make certain all kinds of threshold values REFERENCES I R Agrawal T Imielinski, and A Swami 223Mining association N~S between se6 of item in large databases,\224 in Pra 1993 ACM-SIGMOD Int Cant Management ofData SIGMOD\22293 pp 207.216 May 1993 21 R Agrawal and R Srikant 223Fast algorithm far mining asmiation N~S in large databases:\222 in Research Report RJ 9839 IBM Alden Reswch Center, June 1994 3 H Mannila H Toivonen and A.I Verkamo 223Efficient algorithm for discovering association N~s.\224 in Pm AAA1\22194 Worlwhop Knowledge Discovery inDalebase KDD\22294 pp ISL192,luly 1994 4 R Agrawal H Mannila R Srikant H Toivanen and A.I Verkamo 223Fast discovery of association 221mles:\222 in Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining U.M Fayyad G Piatesky-Shapiro P SmyU1 and R UthuNsamy Eds AAAIMIT Pres 1996 pp 307-328 5 IS Park M.S Chen and P.S Yu 223An effective hash-based algorithm for mining association Nles.\224 in Pm 1995 ACM-SIGMOD laL Conf Management ofData SIGMOD95 pp 175-186, May 1995 161 R Agrawal and R Srikant 223Fast algorithms for mining association des,\224 in Pmc 1994 InL Con\200 Very Large Data Bax VLD8\22194 pp 487499 SepL 1994 7 J Han and Y Fu 223Discovery of multiple-level asdociation NI from large databases:\222 in Roc 1995 Int Conf Very Large Lhta Brrc VLDB95 pp 420431 Sept 1995 IS A Savasere E Omisinski and S Navalhe 223An efficient algorithm for mining assaiation NI in large databases,\224 in Proc 1995 Int Conf Very Large DataBase VLDB95 pp 432443 SepL 1995 9 A Tung H.J Lu 1 Han and L Feng 223Breakhg the barrisr of transactions Mining inter-tramaction assciation N~s,\224 in Proc Of the FiAh Int Conf On Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining pp 297-301,August 1999 IOIL Fag H.1 h J.X Yu and I Han 223Mining intcr-tranradion associations with templates,\224 in Pmc 1999 InL Conf On Information and KnwledgcMan;lgemml~ClKM\22299 27.5-133,Nov 1999 Ill G Das H Mannila and P Ronksinen 223Similarity of a!lributes by external probss;l in Proc Of the Fouth ACM SIGKDD Inl Conf On Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining pp 23-29 1998 12 A Savasere E Omiecinski and S Navathe 223Mining for strong negative miations in a large databax of customer fl?wactions,\224 in Roc Of.thc 14th Inl Conf On Data Engineering pp 494-502 February 1998 I G.E Wedell 223Reasoning about l%tKtional dependencies gmerslbd for SEmantic data models.\224 ACM Transacliors OD Data Systems vol 17 no I,pp 3la4,March 1992  Tan V.Kuw and J Snvastavq 224lndimt sssaistion Mining higher order dependcneies in data:\222 in Pm Of lhe 41h EumpaI Conference on Principles and Practice and PractiK of Knowledge   j I Discovery in Data pp 632-637.2OW 835 


Proceedings of the Third Intemational Conference on Machine Laming and Cybemetics Shanghai 26-29 August 2004 G Chen Q.Wei and E.E Kerre Fuzzy data mining Discovery of fuzzy generalized association rules G Bordogna and G. Pasi, \(eds Recent Issues on Fuzzy Databases. Springer-Verlag, 2000 G Chen P Yan and E Kerre Mining Fuzzy Implication-Based Association Rules in Quantitative Databases Proceedings of FLINS2002 Belgium 2002 M Delgado D Sanchez and M.A Vila. Acquisition of fuzzy association rules hm medical data S Barro and R Marin eds Fuzzy Logic in Medicine Physica Verlag, 2000 U Fayyad G Piatetsky-shapiro and P Smyth 223From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery An overview\224 Fayyad U Piatetsky-Shapiro G Smyth P and Uthu~samy R.\(eds Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Cambridge MA AAAI Press pp 1-30 1996 Gyenesei A fuzzy approach for mining quantitative association rules TUCS technical reports 336 University of Turku Department of Computer Science, Lemminkisenkatu 14 Finland 2000 E Hiillermeier and J Beringer Mining implication-based fuzzy association rules in datahases B Bouchon-Meunier L Foulloy and R.R Yager eds Intelligent Systems for Information Processing From Representation to Applications. Elsevier, 2003 12 E.E Kerre Introduction to the Basic Principles of Fuzzy Set Theory and Some of Its Application Communication  Cognition Gent Belgium 1991 13 G.J Klir and B Yuan Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic-Theory and Applications Prentice Hall New Jersey 1995 I41 C Man Kuok A Fu and M Hon Wong Mining fuzzy association rules in databases SIGMOD Record 27 pp.41-46 1998 U H Mannila H Toivonen, and I Verkamo, Efficient Algorithms for Discovering Association Rules Piatetsky-Shapim G and Frawley W J.\(eds Knowledge Discovery in Databases AAAI PressfIhe MIT Press MenIo Park Califomia 1991 I61 D Ruan and E.E Kerre Fuzzy implication operators and generalized fuzzy method of cases Fuzzy Sets and systems 54\(1 pp 23-38, 1993 I71 Savasere E Omiecinski and S Navathe An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Association Rules in Large Dtabses Proceedings of the 21st VLDB Conference, Zurich Swizerland pp 43243.1995 18 R Srikant and R Agrawal 223Mining Quantitative Association Rules in Large Relational Tables\224 Proc of 1996 ACM-SIGMOD Intemat Conference management of Data pp 1-12 Montreal Canada 1996  I91 http://www.epsilon.coml  http://www.ncc.up.pt 1640 


 7  s in all cases that the rule holds true. Rules with high support and confidence values are considered good rules  Confidence \(c  X Y X    Support \(s All Y X    There are several ways that we can employ the Association Rules technique into SOAs to assist in service discovery. In the next two paragraphs we will discuss two methods: the first one is to utilize user profiles and service access logs to find the rules, and the second is to examine the services within service workflow l ogs to find the co-occurrence pattern among data services, application services and userfacing services  As exhibited in Table 4, user profiles can be created based on user identity, specialized domains and interests. The following rules can be disclosed by studying the data: If a user is a terrorism analyst then entity extraction services and link & group analysis services are useful with 80% support and 100% confidence; If a user is a terrorism analyst and is interested in information about Al-Qaeda and Usama Bin Laden then data service 3 and 4 are good information sources with 40% support and 66% confidence  Table 5 showed six service workflows and revealed the following rules: If a link & group analysis service is used to analyze the data then a hyper bolic tree service is used to visualize the result with 33% support and 100% confidence If data service E is the data source then entity extraction service is used to work with the data with 33% support and 66% confidence  As illustrated above, what th is technique discovered is actually the association and relationship among services in SOA, which is not natively captured in the service registry The rules found can be used to advise proper services for users to leverage based on user profiles or on current selected services. For example, if a new user declares himself to be a terrorism analyst then entity extraction services and link & group analysis services can be recommended. Or when a user selects a link & group service, a hyperbolic tree service can be suggested to the user for visualization. He nce, the association rules technique helps to push individual services and even service workflows to the user  S ERVICE S EQUENTIAL A CCESS P ATTERNS   Sequential Patterns is an interesting data mining technique that has been used to discover customer purchase behavior web access patterns, and time related processes such as scientific experiments, natural disasters, and disease treatments. Its goal is to find inter-transaction patterns such that the presence of a set of items is followed by another item in the time-stamp ordered transaction set  In SOA, this technique can be used to discover users service access patterns in temporal order. For example among users who are working on terrorism information analysis, link & group analysis services are usually called within one hour after accessing an entity extractor service In some scenarios, the sequential patterns technique can also be used to determine which services in the same service categories are more effective. Table 6 demonstrates three analysis processes of differe nt analysts. In all three processes, we can see the r ecurring pattern: the combination of service 1, service 4, and se rvice 8 is always replaced by the combination of service 1, service 5, and service 8, which shows that service 5 probably has more advantage than service 4 when dealing with a specific topic, in this case Al-Qaeda, financial sources”, even though both of them are relevant  Analysis Process Sequences start with RFI user 1  1. search service related to “Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. search result: data service 1, 2, 3; application service 4, 5, 6, 7; user facing service 8, 9 3. construct service flow with service 1, 4, 8 4. view the result 5. modify the service flow to replace service 4 with service 5 and view the result 5. save service flow for the RFI start with existing service flow user 2 1. load existing service flow with services 1, 4, 8 saved for RFI about “Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. modify the service flow to replace service 4 with service 5 and view the result 3. save the modification start with RFI user 3  1. search service related to “Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. search result: data service 1, 2, 3; application service 4, 5, 6, 7; user facing service 8, 9 3. construct service flow with service 1, 5, 8 and view the result 4. modify the service flow to replace service 5 with service 4 and view the result 5. reverse back to service 1, 5, 8 and save service flow for the RFI  Table 6Sequential Pattern in Analysis Process 5  A PPLICATION OF S ERVICE R ATING  Service Rating technique allows service consumers to review and rate services based on a set of criterias.  The review and rating then serve as references for other service consumers to inquire. The set of criterias covers service performance, availability accuracy, validity and effectiveness  Before delving into service rating technique in detail, let us first take a step back and have a look at our everyday life When people are planning to purchase a product or a 


 8 service, reviews and ratings from other customers generally play a very important role in our decision  Whenever planning to go to a restaurant, reserve a hotel purchase a car, or buy a book, people will always want to check consumer guides and any customer reviews available even if they have already got enough information from the product vendor or service provider. You may also want to call your friends to see what they think if they happen to have any experience with the product or the service, and you take their opinions and suggestions very seriously  Amazon has implemented a product review and rating mechanism that enables cust omers to share information about products. In the A9 tool just cam e out i t st art s  to capture review and rating fo r virtual product-website too In SOA, service is also virtual product. The information in the service registry is provided by service provider however a service consumer may have a totally different view from what the provider claims.  This is where a feedback loop becomes increasingly important  By incorporating users’ feedback about services in the format of reviews and ratings into a SOA, service consumers have a 360-degree view of services. They have an opportunity to know more about service performance effectiveness and reliability before making a selection among relevant services, which they were not able to do via the data captured in a re gular service registry   Performance Effectiveness Service Review Service Rating Extended Service Registry Inquiry Reliability  Figure 6Service Review and Service Rating  Service rating provides an overall evaluation for a service while service review provides detailed evaluations in text format.  Reviews and ratings that come from the same user group are especially interesting, since they represent opinions from a community of users with the same interests and same requirements for servi ces. With the latest service reviews and ratings bearing heavier weight, service improvements can be reflected and taken into consideration  By employing service ratings, analysts will gain the ability to focus efforts on highly rated services that are more likely to provide better results. This will allow the process to be more efficient by reducing the number of ineffective and unproductive queries and analysis 6  E XTENDED S YSTEM A RCHITECTURE  In order to take advantage of the data mining technology and service rating techniques discussed in section 4 and section 5, we propose an extended SOA infrastructure to enable pattern and association discovery, service rating and review capturing, dynamic COI construction and inquiry of all the above information  As depicted in Figure 7, the service registry that usually holds service metadata provided by service vendor is extended to include service access patterns, service associations and recurring service flows. New data structures are created in the re gistry to hold these additional information. Based on the examples in section 4 classification of “useful for te rrorism analysis” can be added to service entries of Evidence Entity Link Discovery Service, Entity Extractor service and Link & Group Analysis service \(Table 1, 2\ in the registry. Clusters of services: service 1, 2, 3, 4; service 5; and service 6, 7, 8,9 10 \(Table 3 and entity extraction service and link & group analysis service and hyperbolic tree service \(Table 5 service flow of service 1, 5, 8 \(Table 6\l be captured in the registry. With the information available, when a user inquires about a service from the registry, he can not only get the service metadata, but also get the other services that always co-occur with the current service, similar services and service workflows that the current service often participates in  The service registry is also extended to store service rating and reviews. After interacting with the services, service consumers can rate the service or write review about their experience and publish it to the service registry. The feedbacks are then available while other users look up the services. In the Service Seque ntial Access Patterns example four application services are returned for a RFI about “AlQaeda”, “Financial Sources within which service 5 may have the highest average rating in Effectiveness and Performance. With this information, a user will immediately know that service 5 is the probably the best candidate to pick  In addition to the service re gistry, a user registry is introduced into the architectur e. It captures basic user profile such as name, profession, and interested domains. In addition to that the user registry also serves as a “group registry” and captures user groups of same interest-COIs From the user clustering example in section 4, user clusters  


 9   Figure 7 Extended SOA Infrastructure w ith Pattern/Rating Services  of user A, C, G; user F; and user B, D, E, H can be stored in the “group registry” for inquiry. Different from most of the COIs we encounter today, the COIs here are dynamically constructed and updated by running clustering algorithm on users’ access log of the services. If a user’s interest in terrorism analysis changes from “Al-Qaeda” to “Saddam Hussein”, it will be reflected in the dynamic user groups  To support the new features of service registry and user registry, the interface of Regi stry Service in the Core Enterprise Services block is also extended to enable publishing and querying additional information  The service blocks tier is expanded to include another set of data mining and rating related services Patterns/Associations services offer the capability of service classification, service clusteri ng, service associations and sequential access patterns discove ry. Dynamic COI services cluster users in a dynamic fashion. Both of them interact with ESM to gain access to th e service access log and user it as the input for various data mining algorithms Rating/Review services provi de the interface to define rating criteria, and capture users’ reviews and ratings  Companies like Amazon and eBay have utilized similar sets of data mining and rating services to provide a high level of quality to their customers.  The increase in quality and information leads to an increas ed customer base, increased participation in the “community,” and ultimately to increased satisfaction.  The same paradigm can be applied to the Intelligence Community providing leverage to support the analytical and collaborative process  These new capabilities will enable a more intelligent system that will better support the analyst.  By leveraging standard” advantages of a SOA, these new extension will offer additional advantages to the end user.  With a SOA analysts will have the ability to discover and bind to new services on the network dynamically.  With the new techniques behind data mining and service rating applied to the SOA, analysts will be able to make better determinations on what serv ices will best support their needs  Further, these services can support the next generation of systems built around agent technologies.  With the necessary infrastructure in pl ace, intelligent ag ents can be built to automate many of the service discovery and orchestration steps taken manually today.  This additional increase in automation will allow analysts to spend less time searching and more time analyzing 7  S UMMARY  By combining data mining technology and service rating techniques into a SOA-enabled problem solving space within the Intelligence Community, analysts are able to utilize expertise and knowledge from other analysts to quickly discover services in a meaningful way and compose services into workflows  With the assistance of service mining, service usage mining and service rating, analysts can navigate through services  Dynamic COI Patterns/Associations Service Profiling Intelligent Agents End-to-End Application End Users  Services Blocks Application Services Information Data Process Services BPEL User-Facing Services WSRP Extended Core Enterprise Services Security Messaging Extended Registry \(UDDI ESM Data Mining Services/Rating Services Dynamic COI Patterns/Associations Rating/Review Extended Registry Store Service Registry Patterns Associations Service Flows Service Rating/Review User Registry COIs 


 10 available on the network effi ciently and effectively by utilizing service access pattern, service associations dynamic COI and service reviews. These techniques will enable analysts to be successful even when confronted with the challenge of service overload as more services begin to populate the network R EFERENCES   Hom eland Security Efforts to Im prove Inform ation Sharing Need to Be Strengthened”, GAO http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d03760.pdf  2 Secu rity Classificatio n  Un ited States In tellig en ce Community http://www.intelligence gov/2-character_classification.shtml  3 Un ited  States In tellig en ce Co m m u n ity Ho m e”, Un ited  States Intelligence Community http://www.intelligence.gov   John St enbi t  M ovi ng Power t o t h e Edge http://www.chips.navy.mil/a rchives/03_su mmer/web%20pa ges/stenbit.htm   SOAP 1.2 http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part0   OASIS Uni v ersal Descri pt i on Di scovery  and Integration \(UDDI http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=uddi-spec   W e b Servi ces Descri pt i on Language \(W SDL http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl20   e b Service Orchestrati on-Business Process Execution Language \(BPEL http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=wsbpel   W e b Services for Rem o te Portlets W SRP http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=wsrp   e b Services Interope rability Organization \(WS-I http://www.ws-i.org   W 3 C Sem a nt i c W e b Servi ces Int e rest Group \(SW I G  http://www.w3.org/2002/ws/swsig    IB M  Soft ware Group. “Servi ce Ori e nt ed Archi t ect ure and Web Services http://www-306.ibm.com/software/solutions/webservices   R e gi s C oqueret  IB M Soft ware Group, “SOA and W e b Services – Foundation for an On Demand Operating Environment     M a noel  M e ndonca, Nancy L. Sunderhaft  M i n i ng Software Engineering Data A Survey- A DACS State-ofthe-Art Report   R  C ool ey B  M obasher, and J. Sri v ast a va, “W eb Mining: Information and Pattern Discovery on the World Wide Web”, 9th IEEE Intern ational Conference on Tools with Artificial In telligence \(ICTAI'1997   eb Mining: Accomplishments Future Directions http://www.cicomra.org.ar/eventosycursos/ECA2004/Prese ntaciones/Tutorials/Srivastava.pdf   Pattern Discovery Software Sy stem LTD. “Data Mining And Discover*E-A whilte paper on PDS Data Mining Technology http://www.patterndiscovery.com/eng/tech/discovere_white paper.pdf   Bahzad, Mortazavi-AsI, Jianyong Wang, Helen Pinto, Qiming Chen, Mei-Chun Hsu, “Mining Sequential Patterns by Pattern-Growth: The PrefixSpan Approach”, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Oct. 2004   Dat a M i ni ng, Knowl e dge Di scovery Genom i c M i ni ng Web Mining http://www.kdnuggets.com    Eri c Yuan, Greg W e nzel Enabl i ng Tot a l Inform at i on Awareness With Grid Services”, 2003 IEEE Aerospace Conference   B a s Jansen, “Servi ce Profi l i ng i n B u si ness t o  B u si ness Web Services”, http://www.basj ansen.com/serviceprofiling  22] Google Search Engi ne. http://www.google.com   Am azon Online Store, http://www,am azon.com   24 Am azo n A9 to o l b a r, h ttp to o l b a r.a9 co m  


 11 B IOGRAPHY  Ying Chen is a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton Inc. She has 5 years of professional experience in system design and development with J2EE and SOA technologies. She is now involved in a research and development project in support of United States Intelligence Community, designing and implementing Advanced Information Sharing and Collaboration solutions. She holds an MS degree in Computer Sc ience from Virginia Tech and BS degree in Computer Science from Fudan University in Shanghai, China  Brad Cohen is an Associate with Booz Allen Hamilton Inc He has 8 years of professional experience in developing and implementing enterprise-class systems for both commercial and government applications.  Currently he is serving as the technical manager on a research and development project in support of the United States Intelligence Community.  He holds an MBA and MS in Information Systems, and a BS in Decision and Information Scien ces from the University of Maryland, College Park   


Proceedings of the Ninth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 7 Conclusion and Future Work References frontier  pages 487\320499 Morgan Kaufmann 1994  W orkshop on frequent itemset mining implementations 2003 http://\336mi.cs.helsinki.\336/\336mi03  W orkshop on frequent itemset mining implementations 2004 http://\336mi.cs.helsinki.\336/\336mi04  J  Han J  Pei and Y  Y in Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation In Proceedings of 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases VLDB VLDB Journal Very Large Data Bases Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery An International Journal Lecture Notes in Computer Science  2004  J W ang and G Karypis Harmon y Ef 336ciently mining the best rules for classi\336cation In The Tenth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining KDD\32504 Symposium on Principles of Database Systems 2 b Average time taken per frequent itemset shown on two scales T10I4D100K is increased and hence the number of frequent items decreases Figure 5\(c also shows that the maximum frontier size is very small Finally we reiterate that we can avoid using the pre\336x tree and sequence map so the only space required are the itemvectors and the minSup SIAM International Conference on Data Mining required drops quite quickly as ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues in Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 2000 ACM SIGMOD Intl Conference on Management of Data Figure 5 Results  8\(3\3204 2000  F  P an G C ong A T ung J Y ang and M Zaki Carpenter Finding closed patterns in long biological datasets In  2121:236 2001  M Steinbach P N T an H Xiong and V  K umar  Generalizing the notion of support In a Runtime ratios T10I4D100K c Number of Itemvectors needed and maximum frontier size T10I4D100K  pages 1\32012 ACM Press May 2000  F  K orn A Labrinidis Y  K otidis and C F aloutsos Quanti\336able data mining using ratio rules  Morgan Kaufmann 2003  J Pei J Han and L Lakshmanan Pushing convertible constraints in frequent itemset mining We showed interesting consequences of viewing transaction data as itemvectors in transactionspace and developed a framework for operating on itemvectors This abstraction gives great 337exibility in the measures used and opens up the potential for useful transformations on the data Our future work will focus on 336nding useful geometric measures and transformations for itemset mining One problem is to 336nd a way to use SVD prior to mining for itemsets larger than  pages 205\320215 2005  We also presented GLIMIT a novel algorithm that uses our framework and signi\336cantly departs from existing algorithms GLIMIT mines itemsets in one pass without candidate generation in linear space and time linear in the number of interesting itemsets Experiments showed that it beats FP-Growth above small support thresholds Most importantly it allows the use of transformations on the data that were previously impossible  That is the space required is truly linear  D Achlioptas Database-friendly random projections In  2001  R Agra w al and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules In  8:227\320252 May 2004  J Pei J Han and R Mao CLOSET An ef 336cient algorithm for mining frequent closed itemsets In  pages 21\32030 2000  S Shekhar and Y  Huang Disco v ering spatial colocation patterns A summary of results 


mator from sensor 1 also shown 6. CONCLUSIONS This paper derives a Bayesian procedure for track association that can solve a large scale distributed tracking problem where many sensors track many targets. When noninformative prior of the target state is assumed, the single target test becomes a chi-square test and it can be extended to the multiple target case by solving a multidimensional assignment problem. With the noninformative prior assumption, the optimal track fusion algorithm can be a biased one where the regularized estimate has smaller mean square estimation error. A regularized track fusion algorithm was presented which modifies the optimal linear unbiased fusion rule by a less-than-unity scalar. Simulation results indicate the effectiveness of the proposed track association and fusion algorithm through a three-sensor two-target tracking scenario 7. REFERENCES 1] Y. Bar-Shalom and W. D. Blair \(editors Tracking: Applications and Advances, vol. III, Artech House, 2000 2] Y. Bar-Shalom and H. Chen  Multisensor Track-to-Track Association for Tracks with Dependent Errors  Proc. IEEE Conf. on Decision and Control, Atlantis, Bahamas, Dec. 2004 3] Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li, Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Principles and Techniques, YBS Publishing, 1995 4] Y. Bar-Shalom, X. R. Li and T. Kirubarajan, Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation: Algorithms and Software for Information Extraction, Wiley, 2001 5] S. Blackman, and R. Popoli  Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems  Artech House, 1999 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Time N o rm a li z e d e s ti m a ti o n e rr o r s q u a re d Target 1 Sensor 1 Centralized Est Track Fusion 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 0 2 


2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Time N o rm a li z e d e s ti m a ti o n e rr o r s q u a re d Target 2 Sensor 1 Centralized Est Track Fusion Fig. 7. Comparison of the NEES for centralized IMM estimator \(configuration \(i estimators \(configuration \(ii sensor 1 also shown 6] H. Chen, T. Kirubarajan, and Y. Bar-Shalom  Performance Limits of Track-to-Track Fusion vs. Centralized Estimation: Theory and Application  IEEE Trans. Aerospace and Electronic Systems 39\(2  400, April 2003 7] H. Chen, K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan and Y. Bar-Shalom  Data Association with Possibly Unresolved Measurements Using Linear Programming  Proc. 5th ONR/GTRI Workshop on Target Tracking Newport, RI, June 2002 8] Y. Eldar, and A. V. Oppenheim  Covariance Shaping Least-Square Estimation  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 51\(3 pp. 686-697 9] Y. Eldar  Minimum Variance in Biased Estimation: Bounds and Asymptotically Optimal Estimators  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 52\(7 10] Y. Eldar, A. Ben-Tal, and A. Nemirovski  Linear Minimax Regret Estimation of Deterministic Parameters with Bounded Data Uncertainties  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 52\(8 Aug. 2004 11] S. Kay  Conditional Model Order Estimation  IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 49\(9 12] X. R. Li, Y. Zhu, J. Wang, and C. Han  Optimal Linear Estimation Fusion  Part I: Unified Fusion Rules  IEEE Trans. Information Theory, 49\(9  2208, Sept. 2003 13] X. R. Li  Optimal Linear Estimation Fusion  Part VII: Dynamic Systems  in Proc. 2003 Int. Conf. Information Fusion, Cairns, Australia, pp. 455-462, July 2003 14] X. D. Lin, Y. Bar-Shalom and T. Kirubarajan  Multisensor Bias Estimation Using Local Tracks without A Priori Association  Proc SPIE Conf. Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets \(Vol 


SPIE Conf. Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets \(Vol 5204 15] R. Popp, K. R. Pattipati, and Y. Bar-Shalom  An M-best Multidimensional Data Association Algorithm for Multisensor Multitarget Tracking  IEEE Trans. Aerospace and Electronic Systems, 37\(1 pp. 22-39, January 2001 pre></body></html 


20 0  50  100  150  200  250  300 Pe rc en ta ge o f a dd iti on al tr af fic Cache size 200 clients using CMIP 200 clients using UIR c Figure 6. The percentage of additional traf?c the cache at every clock tick. A similar scheme has been proposed in [13], which uses fv, a function of the access rate of the data item only, to evaluate the value of each data item i that becomes available to the client on the channel If there exists a data item j in the client  s cache such that fv\(i j replaced with i A prefetch scheme based on the cache locality, called UIR scheme, was proposed in [7]. It assumes that a client has a large chance to access the invalidated cache items in the near future. It proposes to prefetch these data items if it is possible to increase the cache hit ratio. In [6], Cao improves the UIR scheme by reducing some unnecessary prefetches based on the prefetch access ratio \(PAR scheme, the client records how many times a cached data item has been accessed and prefetched, respectively. It then calculates the PAR, which is the number of prefetches divided by the number of accesses, for each data item. If the PAR is less than one, it means that the data item has been accessed a number of times and hence the prefetching is useful. The clients can mark data items as non-prefetching when PAR &gt; b, where b is a system tuning factor. The scheme proposes to change the value of b dynamically according to power consumption. This can make the prefetch scheme adaptable, but no clear methodology as to how and when b should be changed. Yin et al. [19] proposed a power-aware prefetch scheme, called value-based adaptive prefetch \(VAP the number of prefetches based on the current energy level to prolong the system running time. The VAP scheme de?nes a value function which can optimize the prefetch cost to achieve better performance These existing schemes have ignored the following characteristics of a mobile environment: \(1 query some data items frequently, \(2 during a period of time are related to each other, \(3 miss is not a isolated events; a cache miss is often followed by a series of cache misses, \(4 eral requests in one uplink request consumes little additional bandwidth but reduces the number of future uplink requests. In this paper, we addressed these issues using a cache-miss-initiated prefetch scheme, which is based on association rule mining technique. Association rule mining is a widely used technique in ?nding the relationships among data items. The problem of ?nding association rules among items is clearly de?ned by Agrawal et al. in [5]. However in the mobile environment, one cannot apply the existing association rule mining algorithm [4] directly because it is too complex and expensive to use This makes our algorithm different from that of [4] in 


This makes our algorithm different from that of [4] in twofold. First, we are interested in rules with only one data item in the antecedent and several data items in the consequent. Our motivation is to prefetch several data items which are highly related to the cache-miss data item within Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management \(MDM  04 0-7695-2070-7/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE the cache-miss initiated uplink request. We want to generate rules where the antecedent is one data item, but the cache-missed data item and the consequent is a series of data items, which are highly related to the antecedent. If we have such rules, we can easily ?nd the data items which should also be piggybacked in the uplink request. Second in mobile environment, the client  s computation and power resources are limited. Thus, the rule-mining process should not be too complex and resource expensive. It should not take a long time to mine the rules. It should not have high computation overhead. However, most of the association rule mining algorithms [4, 5] have high computation requirements to generate such rules 5. Conclusions Client-side prefetching technique can be used to improve system performance in mobile environments. However, prefetching also consumes a large amount of system resources such as computation power and energy. Thus, it is very important to only prefetch the right data. In this paper, we proposed a cache-miss-initiated prefetch \(CMIP scheme to help the mobile clients prefetch the right data The CMIP scheme relies on two prefetch sets: the alwaysprefetch set and the miss-prefetch set. Novel association rule based algorithms were proposed to construct these prefetch sets. When a cache miss happens, instead of sending an uplink request to only ask for the cache-missed data item, the client requests several items, which are within the miss-prefetch set, to reduce future cache misses. Detailed experimental results veri?ed that the CMIP scheme can greatly improve the system performance in terms of increased cache hit ratio, reduced uplink requests and negligible additional traf?c References 1] S. Acharya, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Prefetching From a Broadcast Disk. Proc. Int  l Conf. on Data Eng., pages 276  285, Feb. 1996 2] S. Acharya, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Balancing Push and Pull for Data Broadcast. Proc. ACM SIGMOD, pages 183  194, May 1997 3] S. Acharya, R. Alonso, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Broadcast disks: Data Management for Asymmetric Communication Environments. Proc. ACM SIGMOD, pages 199  210 May 1995 4] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In J. B. Bocca, M. Jarke, and C. Zaniolo editors, Proc. 20th Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases, VLDB pages 487  499. Morgan Kaufmann, 12  15 1994 5] R. Agrawal, Tomasz Imielinski, and Arun Swami. Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207  216, Washington, D.C May 1993 6] G. Cao. Proactive Power-Aware Cache Management for Mobile Computing Systems. IEEE Transactions on Computers, 51\(6  621, June 2002 7] G. Cao. A Scalable Low-Latency Cache Invalidation Strategy for Mobile Environments. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 15\(5 ber/October 2003 \(A preliminary version appeared in ACM MobiCom  00 8] K. Chinen and S. Yamaguchi. An Interactive Prefetching Proxy Server for Improvement of WWW Latency. In Proc INET 97, June 1997 9] E. Cohen and H. Kaplan. Prefetching the means for docu 


9] E. Cohen and H. Kaplan. Prefetching the means for document transfer: A new approach for reducing web latency. In Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM, pages 854  863, 2000 10] R. Cooley, B. Mobasher, and J. Srivastava. Data preparation for mining world wide web browsing patterns. Knowledge and Information Systems, 1\(1  32, 1999 11] C. R. Cunha, Azer Bestavros, and Mark E. Crovella. Characteristics of WWW Client Based Traces. Technical Report TR-95-010, Boston University, CS Dept, Boston, MA 02215, July 1995 12] D. Duchamp. Prefetching hyperlinks. In USENIX Symposium on Internet Technologies and Systems \(USITS  99 1999 13] V. Grassi. Prefetching Policies for Energy Saving and Latency Reduction in a Wireless Broadcast Data Delivery System. In ACM MSWIM 2000, Boston MA, 2000 14] S. Hameed and N. Vaidya. Ef?cient Algorithms for Scheduling Data Broadcast. ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks \(WINET  193, May 1999 15] Q. Hu and D. Lee. Cache Algorithms based on Adaptive Invalidation Reports for Mobile Environments. Cluster Computing, pages 39  48, Feb. 1998 16] Z. Jiang and L. Kleinrock. An Adaptive Network Prefetch Scheme. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 16\(3  11, April 1998 17] V. Padmanabhan and J. Mogul. Using Predictive Prefetching to Improve World Wide Web Latency. Computer Communication Review, pages 22  36, July 1996 18] N. Vaidya and S. Hameed. Scheduling Data Broadcast in Asymmetric Communication Environments. ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks \(WINET  182, May 1999 19] L. Yin, G. Cao, C. Das, and A. Ashraf. Power-Aware Prefetch in Mobile Environments. IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems \(ICDCS 2002 Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management \(MDM  04 0-7695-2070-7/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


um be r o f C he ck ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 6. The Number of Checked Patterns on the Pumsb Data Set 10 100 1000 10000 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 R un T im e s ec  Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 7. The RunTime Comparison on the Pumsb Data Set The runtime comparison of MHP and MAFIA on the Pumsb* data set is shown in Figure 5. In the ?gure, we can observe that the runtime of MHP can be signi?cantly reduced with the increase of h-con?dence thresholds. Also the runtime of MHP can be several orders of magnitude less than that of MAFIA even if the h-con?dence threshold is as low as 0.3. The reason is that the number of checked patterns of MHP is sign?cantly smaller than that of MAFIA Similar results are also obtained from the pumsb data set as shown in Figure 6 and Figure 7. For the pumsb data set the number of checked patterns of MHP is much smaller 


than that of MAFIA and the runtime of MHP can be significantly less than that of MAFIA 5.3. The Effect of the MHP Algorithm on Finding Maximal Hyperclique Patterns Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the number of maximal patterns identi?ed byMHP andMAFIA on Pumsb* and Pumsb data sets respectively. As can be seen, the number of maximal hyperclique patterns identi?ed by MHP can be orders of magnitude smaller than the number of maximal frequent patterns identi?ed by MAFIA. In other words, the number Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 1e+07 1e+08 1e+09 0.02 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 0.045 0.05 0.055 0.06 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0 Min_Conf=0.1 Min_Conf=0.3 Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 8. The Number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb* Data Set 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 


1e+07 1e+08 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 9. The number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb Data Set of maximal hyperclique patterns is much easier to manage than that of maximal frequent patterns. Indeed, in realworld applications, it is dif?cult to interpret several million maximal frequent patterns. However, it is possible to interpret the results of maximal hyperclique pattern mining In addition, due to the memory limitation, we cannot extract maximal frequent patterns with MAFIA on the Pumsb data set if the support threshold is less than 0.4, as shown in Figure 7. In contrast, MHP can identify maximal hyperclique patterns when the support threshold is 0.1, if we set the h-con?dence threshold to 0.5. In other words, MHP has the ability to identify patterns which can be dif?cult to identify for MAFIA. Hence, MHP can better explore the pattern space and ?nd interesting patterns at low levels of support 6. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we present a two-phase Maximal Hyperclique Pattern \(MHP best features of both the BFS strategy and the DFS strategy. More speci?cally, we adapted DFS pruning methods such as equivalence pruning, to an apriori-like approach In addition, we proved the correctness and completeness of the MHP algorithm. Finally, our experimental results show that the MHP algorithm can be several orders of magnitude faster than standard maximal frequent pattern mining algorithms and has the ability to identify patterns at extremely low levels of support in dense data sets There are several directions for future work. First, in 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207–216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Int’l Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Int’l Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





