Reverse Engineering Using Association Rules O.Maqboo1 AKarim H.A Babri and M.Sanvar Compiler Science Department Lahore University of Management Sciences DHA Lahore Pakistan onaiza@lums.edu.pk akarim@hms.edu.pk haroon@lums.edu.pk msaPluar@lums.edu.pk Abstract sC systems need fo evolve as business requirements technology and environment change Very qfien these changes to fhe sofiware are not docrimen fed hence it 
becomes diyficult to undersfand arid inenage such systems To gain systein ziiiderstanding when docirmenfation is non-e.uisten or incomplete we use reverse engigineering In this paper we e.rplore the me of a mining fou sofmare reverse engineering i.e given the sowcc files of a software system we use association nrle mining algorithm and tools to gain insight about 
the sofiware Our purpose is to determine whether association rule miriing con be used for Jinding interestitig palfenis and associations within fhe sofhcire ihcit can lead to progr-am understanding and if required re-s~rticiiirirg We apply association nile milling IO a test system und present our results Find we analyze our resirlt.7 and suggest mod$cations to irnprove the strucfuve qf the 
sofhvare  Inda Tcrms  Rewrse Engineering Program Uiidwsta!iding Daia Mining Associaf ion Rides 1 Introduction Legacy systems are old software systems that are crucial to the operation of a business These systems arc expected to have undergone changes in their lifetime due to changes in requirements business conditions and technology It is quite likely that such changes were made without proper regard to software engineering principles The result 
is often a deteriorated structure which is unstable but cannot be discarded because it is costly to do so Moreover another reason for retaining these legacy systems is that they embed business knowledge which is not documented elsewhere Since it is often not feasible to discard a system and develop a new one techniques must be employed to improve the structure of the existing system An effective strategy for change must be devised reengineering is 
one such strategy Re-engineering is a process that transforms or re-implements legacy systems to make them more maintainable The re engineering option shodd be chosen when system quality has been degraded by regular change but change is still required i.e the system under consideration has low quality but a high business valuc and the reengineering effort is less risky and less costly than system replacement The re-engineering effort starts with gaining an understanding of the software system a process known as 
reverse engineering Gaining system understanding is difficult because documentation for the system is often not available and source code files are the only means of information regarding the system In this paper we explore the use of association rule mining for software reverse engineering i.e given the source files of a software system we use association rule mining algorithms and tools to gain understanding and insight about the software The understanding gained allows suggestions for making subsequent changes and optimizations to 
the source code for bettcr maintainability In recent years there has been growing interest in the application of data mining techniques to gain better understanding of software systems Researchers have applied data mining techniques in different contexts e.g to recover the architecture of software legacy systems I  3 to discover pattems for re-using software library components 4 5 and to support software system maintenance 6 7 In 0-7803-8680-9/04/$20.00 02004 IEEE INMIC 2004 


this paper our focus is on the use of association rule mining for discovering patterns within the source code that are helpful in system understanding and improvemcnt The organization of our paper is as follows In section 2 we present an overview of association rule mining Section 3 details our approach Section 4 gives the results of applying association rule mining to a test system Finally we present thc conclusions 2 An overview of association rule mining Association rule mining is a data mining technique that finds interesting association or correlation relationships among a large set of data items XI Traditionally association rule mining has been employed as a useful tool to support business decision making by discovering interesting relationships among business transaction records To illustrate the concept of association rule mining consider a set of data items I  i i2 in Let D be a set of transactions with each transaction T being a subset of I i.e TC I An association rule is an implication of the form A B where A C I,Bc I and A ns=d As an example consider a set of computer accessories CDs memory sticks and microphone speakers that are available at a certain store These accessories form the set of items I of interest to us Every sale made represents a transaction T Suppose the sales made are represented in the form of the following set of transactions D Transaction ID 1 Items Sold T1 I CD memory stick T2 I CD T3 I Microphone, speaker I  I CD 224 speaker 1 Micro hone Memory stick micro hone s eaker Association rules in the above case represent the iteins that tend to be sold together e.g. the association rule CDaSpgaker shows that those who buy CDs also tend to buy speakers A number of such association rules may exist in a given set of transaction and not all of them may be of interest To find interesting rules support and confidence thresholds are used Support represents the percentage of transactions in D which contain both A and B Confidence is the percentage of transactions in D containing A that also contain B Mathematically Confidence A B P\(B I A An association rule is said to be strong if it satisfies both a minimum support threshold and a minimum confidence threshold Another measure of interest is coverage The coverage of an association rule is the proportion of transactions in D that have the items specified on the left hand side of the rule Mathematically Coverage A 3 B  p A support A 3B  P\(A LIB For the association rule CD Speuker support is 115 confidence is 113 and coverage is 315 An interesting association rule in this case is MicrophoneSpeaker for which Support 1s 3/5 confidence is 1 and coverage is 315 3 Our rule mining approach 3.1 Item selection The first step in our approach is to identify items to be used in mining For generating results from source code files these items should be 221facts\222 about the software that exist in the form of 221transactions\222 Most of the legacy software systems that exist have been developed using the structured approach with functions or routines forming basic components Moreover in legacy software the use of global variables is often widespread leading to difficulty in understanding the code 221In view of these facts we decided to use both functions and global variables as items Moreover we also decided to use user defined types The reason is that user defined types become potential objects when code is to be re-structured as object-oriented code Thus the guiding principle for item selection is to select iteins and identify association rules which facilitate understanding of the code and allow suggestions for re-structuring the code for greater maintainability Three sets of transactions based on these items are used. These are  The set of functions along with global variables accessed by them The set of functions along with user defined types accessed by them The set of functions along with function calls to other fimctions The fourth set is a consolidated set consisting of functions with global variables user defined types   390 


accessed or function calls made Place the global variable in a 221register\222 but do this carefully keeping all constraints in view Some languages may not allow such placement at all 3,2 Identification of interesting association rules In this step we identify the interesting associations between global variables types and functions As pointed out previously those association rules will be of interest to us that help in understanding the code and in improving its structure and maintainability In the table below we list these association rules detail their implication and offer suggestions for improvement We use both minimum and maximum thresholds of the three measures coverage support and confidence We consider the range 0.7 to1.O as high for any measure and 0.0 to 0.3 as low It is relevant to note that if we employ user defined types functions and global variables as items and use coverage support and confidence criteria with values zero low high and one the number of possible association rules exceeds 1500 The 13 association rules listed below represent a small subset of the total possible association rules They have been selected because they represent meaningful patiews that provide insight into the software system under study Patterns were first adopted by the software community as a way of documenting recurring solutions to design problems 191 The patterns presented below help in identifying problems in legacy software and also offer suggestions for improvement Pattern 1 Reduce level of coupling LHS R HS Coverage Implication Only a small number of functions use the global variabIe on the LHS Suggestion Rather than using the variable as a global variable pass it as a parameter within the relevant functions Global Single Function LOW Pattern 2 Increase efficiency LHS RHS CO veruge Global Function High SinglcMultiplc Global variable\(s on LHS is used by most of the functions LHS RHS Confidence Function Function High Single Implicalion Functions are caIled together Suggestion Place the hnctions in the same file Pattern 3 Locaiize structures LHS RHS Confidence Global Function One Multiple Implication The global variables are used by one function only Suggestion Place global variables in one local structure Pattern 4 Identify utilities LHS RHS Coverage Function Function High Single Impiicairon Function on LHS is called by most of the functions Suggesfion Treat the function as a utility hnction Pattern 5 Increase modularity LHS RHS Co@dence Global Global High SingleMultiple Implication GlobaIs ate used together Suggestion LHS RHS Confidence Type Type High SingleMultiple Implication Types are used together Suggestion Combine the tvues into a structure 1 Suggestion 391 


Pattern 6 Reduce memory requirements LHS RHS Canjidence Global \(Single Global Zero Implication Globals are never used together Suggesrioii Combine the globals into a union structure LHS RHS Confidence Type Type Zero SingleiMuItiple Implicution Types are never used together suggestion Pattern 7 Beware of side effects LHS RIfS Confidence Function Global High SingleiMultiple Implication The functions have high coupling Suggestion If any one of the functions is changed, take care how Pattern 8 Strengthen encapsulation LHS RHS Con$dence Function Type High SingleiMultiple Implication The knctions access the same type in most cases Suggestion If we are considering converting a 221structured\222 system to an 221object-oriented\222 system the type is a candidate class and the functions are its member functions LHS Confidence Global SingleiMultiple 1  Implication The global and type occur together in all cases Suggmtion  If we are considering converting a 221structured\222 system to an 221object-oriented\222 system, the type is a candidate class and the global variable is a static data member LHS RHS ConJidence Type Global One Multiple Implication The types and global variable occur together always Suggestion If we are considering converting a 221structured\222 system to an 221object-oriented\222 system the types are candidate classes inherited from a base class that has the global variable as a static data member 4 Experiments and results 4.1 The test system The software we have chosen tbr applying association nile mining is Xfig version 3.2.3 which is an open source drawing utility that runs under the X Window System It has been written in C and consists of around 75,000 lines of code The design documentation of Xfig is not available although the user manual and other usefd information is available at the Xfig site lo The Xfig system consists of five major subsystems whose source code files can be identified by their names Some relevant statistics of these sub systems are provided in the table below In this paper we present the results for the d-files subsystem only The results and analysis can be extended to the other 4 subsystems as well The source files for the Xfig system have been parsed using the Rigi tool and relevant 221facts\222 which represent the transaction set related to the system have been stored in an exchange format called the 221&gi Standard Format RSF l 11 Facts of interest to us include    Global variables accessed by a function User defined types accessed by a function Functions called by a function 392 


4.2 Analysis of results Type TY pe High In the Xfig software some types satisfy this condition for example F-line and Fjoint This shows that these types always occur together and can be turned into a structure or class for a meaningful interpretation and restricted access if required SinglclMultiple In this section we present the results of applying association rule mining to the d*-files subsystem of Xfig and analyze the results using the patterns identified in section 3.2 The d-files subsystem consists of 94 functions Moreover thc Xfig system makes use of 1746 global variables and 828 user defincd types Application of Pattern 1 LHS RHS Coverage Globat Single Function Low In the Xfig software there are a number of global variables satisfymg this condition This shows that many global variables are being used by very few functions and can be passed as parametcrs The fact that they have been defined as global shows poor design or a design that has deteriorated Application of Pattern 2 L HS RffS Cuvernge Global Function High SingleiMultipIe In the Xfjg software there are no global variables satisfying this condition This shows that no global variable is used by most of the functions This indicates a better design than one where many functions access a global variable thus increasing coupling So the system exhibits some degree of common coupling but this coupling is not between all functions LHS RHS ConJdence Function Function High Single In the Xfig software some functions satisfy this condition For example make-sfactors and spline-drawing-selected are always called together It would be helpful to place the hnctions in the same file to decrease overhead of accessing the functions froin two different files Application of Pattern 3 global variables that are used by only one function For example the global variable cur-arctype and function d-lj.ne occur together in all cases In Application of Pattern 4 LHS RHS Coverage Function Function High SingIe In the Xfig software, there are 110 fiinctioiis satisfying this condition which implies that no fmctian is called frequcntIy by many functions This shows that there are no functions which can bc termed as utility functions Application of Pattern 6 L IiS RHS Cmfideiice Global Single Global Zero In the Xfig software there are no global variables satisfjiing this condition This shows that no two global variables are such that if one is accessed the other is not accessed In other words no two global variables are mutually exclusive L f-Is R HS CunJdence Type Type Zcro SingleiMultiple In the Xfig software there are no types satisfying this condition This shows that no two types are such that if one is acccssed the other is not accessed In other words no two types arc mutualIy exclusive Application of Pattern 7 393 


L HS RHS Cocfidence Function Global High SingleiMultipk In the Xfig software some functions and global variables satisfy this condition For example new-text fhction and the global variable new-t have high coupling This does not indicate a good design since a change in the global variable cannot be traced to a particular function Application of Pattern 8 LHS RHS Confidence Function Type High SingleiMultiple In the Xfig software some functions and types satisfy this condition For example ada-subspl inerioint function accesses type F-sfactor in most cases In case xfig is to be re structured as an object-oriented system F-s factor is a candidate class and add-spline-point is a candidate member function of this class L HS R HS ConJidence Global Type One SingldMultiple In thc Xfig software some global variables and types satisfy this condition For example the global variable cur_boxradius^*and type F-line occur together in all cases In case Xfig is to be re structured as an object-oriented system F-line is a candidate class and cur-boxradius is a candidate static member for this class LHS RHS Con$dence Type Global On e Multiple In the Xfig software some types and global variables satisfy this condition for example the type F-arc and global variable centerjoint occur together in all cases In case Xfig is to be re-structured as an object-oriented system F-arc is a candidate class and centergoint  is a candidate static member for this class 5 Conclusions In this paper we explored the application of association rule mining to the problem of understanding a software system given only the source code We applied association rule mining to analyze thc structure of Xfig which is a reasonably large software system consisting of 75,000 lines of code Extracting interesting and meaningful association rules was helpful in gaining insight about the software\222s overall structure A manual inspection would have taken a much longer time Our results show that association rule mining can be applied to find interesting association between functions types and global variables within the source files These associations can be used to gain deeper understanding of the code and may be used to restructure the code for maintainability In some cases the associations found can be helpful in re modularizing the code e.g in converting a structured design to an object-oriented design It will be interesting to pursue the mining of associations between items other than the ones cxplored here We have considercd global variables user defined types and functions in this paper Association between other items such as input\221output parameters of functions, setigct of variablcs etc may also provide insight into the software Moreover it may be useful to identify other interesting association des that throw light on other aspects of the software system leading to a more complete picture References C Tjortjis L Sinos P Layzell 223Facilitating Program Comprehension by Mining Association Rukes from Source Code\224 I Ith IEEE Znternationul workshop on Program Comprehension IWPC\222O3 May 2003 C Montes de Oca D.L Carver 223A Visual Representation Model for Software Subsystem Decomposition\224 Working Conference on Reverse Engineering WCRE\22298 October 1998 K Sartipi K Kontogiannis F Mavaddat 223Architectural Design Recovery Using Data Mining Techniques\224 Conference on Sofiware Muinienance and Reengineering CSMR 221OO February 2000 A Michail 223Data Mining Library Reuse Patterns in User-Selected Applications\224 14fh ZEEE Internahwl Conference on Automated Sofmare Engineering October 1999 A Michail 223Data mining Library Reuse Patterns Using Generalized Association Rules\224 Proceedings of the 22nd Inlernationol Conference on Soffivare Eitgineerzng June 2000 J.S Shirabad T.C Lethbridge S Matwin 223Supporting Maintenance of Legacy Software with Data Mining Techniques\224 Proceedings of the 2000 Cmference of ihe Centre for Advanced Studies on 394 


Colinbowfive Research November 2000 J.S Shirabad T.C Lethbridge S Matwin 223Supporting Software Maintenance by Mining Software Update Records\224 Irzfe\221riiaiionui Cvizfeerence vn sofhvare Muinrenriiice ICSM\222OI November 2001 J Man and M Kamber Data Mining Conceprs atid Techniques Morgan KaUfnlaM 2000 8 Demeyer S Ducasse 0 Nierstrasz Object Oriented ReenggUreerIng Pultcmns Morgan Kaufmann 2003 liltD://www.xfig.org J Martin K Wong B Winter H.A.Miillcr 223Analyzing Xfig Using the Rigi Tool Suite\224 The Sevmth Working Uonjerence un Reverse Eqimeriq WCRE\221OU November 2000 Acknowledgement Wc would like to thank the Lahore University of Management Sciences for providing funding for this research Thanks also to Ash Qureshi for his help in the initial phascs of this work 395 


camp?on?the strongest?cell nR=1 Greedy Alg \(nR=1 b Figure 3: Performance of macroscopic scheduler versus transmit power at nR = 1, 2, 4. Path loss exponent = 3.5. ?L = ?4dB users to one base station even if the user is closer to another base station \(unless the user is very far away from the base station interference cancellation could be effective only for users associated with the base station. This is illustrated in figure 4 Figure 3\(b utility function at nR = 1, 2, 4. Similarly, significant gains are observed at all nR 6 Conclusions In this paper, we consider a generic multi-cell system with K client users \(each with single antenna each with nR antennas and multiuser detector time, a user could be associated with one base station only. Encoding and decoding terminates at the base station level. The problem is to find the optimal dynamic user association with the nB base Figure 4: Illustration of the advantage to associate users with one base station. It is better to associate mobile 1, 2, 3 to base station A \(even if mobile 3 is closer to base station B mobile 4 should be associated with base station B because it is very close to the base station stations such that the system performance is optimized. We proposed an analytical framework for the above macroscopic scheduling problem and introduce a greedy sub-optimal solution. We show that when multi-user detection is incorporated in base stations, the conventional camp-on-the-strongest-cell approach is far from optimal. For example, we illustrated that there are 4 time of throughput gain between the proposed greedy algorithm and the conventional algorithm at various nR. This is because with multi-user detection it is advantageous to associate users to a common base station due to interference cancellation unless the user is very far away from the base station. We found that the scheduling gain increases with decreasing path loss exponent because of the increase in the effective overlapping area between cells References 1] S. Verdu  The Capacity Region of the Symbol-Asynchronous Gaussian Multiple-Access Channel  IEEE Transactions on Information Theory., pp. 733  751, July 1989 2] G. J. Foschini and M. J. Gans  On the limits of wireless communications in a fading environment  Wireless Personal Communications., pp. 315  335, Nov 1998 3] J. M. Torrance and L. Hanzo  Latency Considerations for Adaptive Modulation in an Interference-Free Slow Rayleigh Fading Channel  Proc. VTC  97, Phoenix, USA, June 1997 4] T. M. Cover and J. A. Thomas, Elements of Information Theory John Wiley and Sons, second ed., 1991 5] T. S. Rappaport, Wireless Communications - Principles and Practice. Prentice Hall, second ed., 2002 WCNC 2004 / IEEE Communications Society 564 0-7803-8344-3/04/$20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


CBA and Neural Networks at 1% confidence level while they are all significantly better than C4.5 decision tree. Taking the interpretability of classification model into account, these two adapted CBA algorithm seem to be appropriate choices for credit scoring because they generated much more compact decision lists \(less sequential rules original CBA. They therefore favour the well-known Occam  s Razor theory and are more suitable for decision makers to understand. A deeper insight into the rules structures shows that original CBA and adapted CBA 1 both focus on generating classification rules that predict good clients \(with bad clients as the default class implication, numerous rules with high confidence but low support have lower ranks than they are in original CBA. These rules are finally discarded since they are not fired by any training samples, which are matched by these rules with higher intensity of implications thus making the decision lists generated by adapted CBA 1 more compact. Adapted CBA 2 mainly mines these classification rules for bad clients \(with good clients as the default class compact rule sets Original CBA Adapted CBA1 Adapted CBA2 C45 NN dataset accuracy no. of rules accuracy num. of rules accuracy no. of rules accuracy accuracy 1 Austr 85.65% 130.5 86.52% 26.4 86.96% 12.4 86.52% 85.07 2 Germ 73.30% 134 74.40% 56.5 73.20% 19.7 72.40% 74.90 3 Bene 72.92% 393 72.30% 186 73.51% 51 70.21% 72.63 Table 2. Experiment results Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering \(ICEBE  05 0-7695-2430-3/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE In addition, decision makers in financial institution certainly pay more attentions to those rules that predict bad clients, which will be extraordinary costly if they are regarded as good ones 5. Conclusion Intensity of implication is proposed in the beginning as an interestingness measure for association rules Another novel interestingness measure called dilated chi-square is designed by us to reveal the statistical interdependence between the antecedents and consequents of association rules We then adapt CBA algorithm, which can be used to build classifiers based on class association rules, by coupling it with intensity of implication and dilated chi-square respectively. More concretely, Intensity of implication \(or dilated chi-square primary criterion to rank class association rules at the first step of the database coverage pruning procedure in CBA algorithm. Experiments on three credit scoring datasets proved that these two adapted algorithms compared with original CBA, classical C4.5 decision tree and neural network, achieve satisfactory performance and generates classifiers much more compact than CBA 6. Acknowledgement The work was partly supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China \(70231010/70321001 7. References 1] Wang, K. and S. Zhou, Growing decision trees on support-less association rules. in KDD'00. 2000. Boston,MA 2] Liu, B., W. Hsu, and Y. Ma, Integrating Classification and Association Rule Mining. in the 4th International Conference on Discovery and Data Mining. 1998. New 


Conference on Discovery and Data Mining. 1998. New York,U.S 3] Dong, G., et al, CAEP:Classification by aggregating emerging patterns. in 2nd International Conference on Discovery Science,\(DS'99 Artificial Intelligence. 1999. Tokyo,Japan: Springer-Verlag 4] Liu, W., J. Han, and J. Pei, CMAR: Accurate and efficient classification based on multiple class-association rules. in ICDM'01. 2001. San Jose, CA 5] Yin, X. and J. Han, CPAR:Classification based on predictive association rules. in 2003 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM'03 Fransisco,CA 6] Agrawal, R. and R. Srikant, Fast algorithm for mining association rules. in the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases. 1994. Santiago,Chile 7] Agrawal, R., T. Imielinski, and A. Swami, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases. in the ACM SIGMOID Conference on Management of Data 1993. Washington,D.C 8] Guillaume, S., F. Guillet, and J. Philippe, Improving the discovery of association rules with intensity of implication Principles of Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 1998 1510: p. 318-327 9] Janssens, D., et al, Adapting the CBA-algorithm by means of intensity of implication. in the First International Conference on Fuzzy Information Processing Theories and Applications. 2003. Beijing, China 10] Gras, G. and A. Lahrer, L'implication statistique: une nouvelle methode d'analysis de donnees. Mathematiques Informatique et Sciences Humaines n 20, 1993 11] Suzuki, E. and Y. Kodratoff, Discovery of  surprising exception rules based on intensity of implication. in PKDD'98. 1998. Berlin: Springer 12] Mills, F., Statistical Methods. 1955: Pitman 13] Lan, Y., et al, Dilated Chi-square: A novel interestingness measure to build accurate and compact decision list. in International conference on intelligent information processing. 2004. Beijing,China 14] Quinlan, J.R., C4.5 programs for machine learning 1993: Morgan Kaufmann 15] Witten, I.H. and E. Frank, Data Mining: practical machine learning tools and techniques with Java implementations. 2000: Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco 16] Fayyad, U.M. and K.B. Irani, Multi-interval discretization of continuous valued attributes for classification learning. in the Thirteenth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence \(IJCAI Chambery,France: Morgan Kaufmann 17] Blake, C.L. and C.J. Merz, UCI repository of machine learning databases http://www.ics.uci.edu/~mlearn/mlrepository.htm]. 1998 Irvine,CA:University of California, Dept. of Information and Computor Science 18] Dietterich, T.G., Approximate statistical tests for comparing supervised classification learning algorithms Neural Computation, 1998. 10\(7 Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering \(ICEBE  05 0-7695-2430-3/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


absolute values. The results can vary on other computers. But it can be guaranteed that performance ratio of the algorithms will remain the same After making the comparisons with sample data, we came to the conclusion that PD algorithm performs significantly better than the other two especially with larger datasets. PD outperforms DCP and PIP regarding running time. On the other hand, since PD reduces the dataset, mining time does not necessary increase as the number of transactions increases and experiments reveals that PD has better scalability than DCP and PIP. So, PD has the ability to handle the large data mine in practical field like market basket analysis and medical report documents mining 5. References 1] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algoritlnns for mining association rules", VLDB'94, pp. 487-499 2] R. J. Bayardo, "Efficiently mining long patterns from databases", SIGMOD'98, pp.85-93 3] J. Pei, J. Han, and R. Mao, "CLOSET: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets \(PDF Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD International Workshop on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, Dallas, TX, May 2000 4] Qinghua Zou, Henry Chiu, Wesley Chu, David Johnson, "Using Pattern Decomposition\( PD Finding All Frequent Patterns in Large Datasets", Computer Science Department University of California - Los Angeles 5] J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin, "Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation \(PDF  SIGMOD International Con! on Management of Data SIGMOD'OOj, Dallas, TX, May 2000 6] S. Orlando, P. Palmerini, and R. Perego, "The DCP algoritlnn for Frequent Set Counting", Technical Report CS2001-7, Dip. di Informatica, Universita di Venezia 2001.Available at http://www.dsi.unive.itl?orlando/TR017.pdf 7] MD. Mamun-Or-Rashid, MD.Rezaul Karim, "Predictive item pruning FP-tree algoritlnn", The Dhaka University  Journal of Science, VOL. 52, NO. 1, October,2003, pp. 3946 8] Park, J. S., Chen, M.-S., and Yu, P. S, "An Effective Hash Based Algoritlnn for Mining Association Rules", Proc ofthe 1995 ACM-SIGMOD Con! on Management of Data 175-186 9] Brin, S., Motwani, R., Ullman, J., and Tsur, S, "Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data", In Proc. of the 1997 ACM-SIGMOD Conf On Management of Data, 255-264 10] Zaki, M. J., Parthasarathy, S., Ogihara, M., and Li, W New Algoritlnns for Fast Discovery of Association Rules In Proc. of the Third Int'l Con! on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining, 283-286 11] Lin, D.-I and Kedem, Z. M., "Pincer-Search: A New Algoritlnn for Discovering the Maximum Frequent Set", In Proc. of the Sixth European Conf on Extending DatabaseTechnology, 1998 12] R. Ramakrishnan, Database Management Systems University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA; International Edition 1998 pre></body></html 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


