The Impact of Grid on Health Care Digital Repositories   Flavia  Donno                                                              Elisabetta Ronchieri   CERN                                                                          INFN-CNAF CH-1211, Geneva 23, Switzerland Vial e Berti Pichat 6/2, I-40126 Bologna, Italy flavia.donno@cern.ch                                                elisabetta.ronchieri@cnaf.infn it   Abstract  Grid computing has attracted worldwide attention in a variety of applications like Health Care 
In this paper we identified the Grid services that could facilitate the integration and interoperation of Health Care data and frameworks world-wide. While many of the current Health Care Grid projects address issues such as data location and description on the Grid and the security aspects, the problems connected to data storage, integrity, preservation and distribution have been neglected. We describe the currently available Grid storage services and protocols that can come in handy when dealing with those problems We further describe a Grid infrastructure to build a cooperative Health Care environment based on currently available 
Grid services and a service able to validate it  1. Introduction  The concept of Grid computing was coined almost fifteen years ago by scientists in Argonne National Laboratory and the University of Chicago to denote a distributed computing infrastructure for advanced science and engineering t t h at ti m e   Grid computing experienced a slow development and Grid applications were present only in academia funded mainly by U.S.A. funding agencies. The name 
Grid comes from the metaphor of Electrical Grids  and the idea to get access to a resource \(e.g electricity\ by using a plug [1 e v e r, th ere is n o  unified definition of the term Grid and the definitions often address different application areas Currently, Grid computing has raised interest worldwide in academia, industry, and government with fast development cycles. In particular, a variety of applications ranging from aerospace, astronomy bioinformatics, chemistry, environment, finance 
physics and Health Care have been identified Grid computing aims at the definition of a global infrastructure able to share geographically distributed resources \(such as data, storage, computers, software tools, applications, instruments, and networks securely, at anytime, and anywhere. Great efforts, huge funding and resources have been made available through national, regional and international initiatives aiming at providing Grid infrastructures, Grid core technologies, Grid middleware and Grid applications The Grid software layers are shown in Figure 1. The 
integration of Grid and Health Care has created a new area called Health Grid h ic h i s  h a v i ng a g r eat  impact on almost every aspect of Health Care, from diagnosis, treatment, primary/acute care to social services   Figure 1: Grid Layers  Grid technologies g i n trodu ced i n  many Health Care areas including medical applications  T h e Grid bu ilds a n i n fras t ru ct u r e t h at prov ides resources to medical personnel who access them following the necessary policies in Health Care. These resources may include computational resources 
storage, equipment \(e.g., scanners\uman resources specialists\he access to a medical resource could be given to the clinicians when entering a case into the Grid system. Health Care specific policies \(such as privacy or authorization\ are enforced according to a service agreemen This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes some Health Care case studies, whilst Section 3 focuses on Health Care requirements Section 4 reports on related works. Section 5 details the Grid storage technology, followed by a description  Grid 
A pp lications High Level Grid Middleware Basic Grid Middleware Grid Infrastructure Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE 
 


of existing storage protocol s in Section 6. Section 7 details how a Grid infrastructure can serve Health Care cases. Section 8 describes a system able to validate the solution. Finally, Section 9 reports conclusions and future work   2. Health Care case studies  In what follows we list a set of Health Care cases where Grid computing can be used to help speed-up a diagnosis or perform tasks that can only be executed in specialized centers. While a center is free to operate in isolation the Grid infrastructure can be called into play whenever needed    Automated diagnosis A medical application can include a check-up, a specialist examination, biosignal or genomic measurement. By using Grid computing, all the examinations and measurements can be linked using geographicallydistributed computing resources, intelligent analysis software and algorithms, and databases via secure and reliable wired or wireless networks The physician or the specialist can perform analysis and diagnosis with the aid of advanced intelligent automated diagnosis machines software and tools   Remote consultation Online medical information can be acquired by connecting to national or international medical information centers to help with the diagnosis. Remote consultation can also be set up through the network   Remote surgery Remote surgery is also possible via a high quality audio video link connected to a remote surgeon specialist. Surgery, specialist and consultant units, laboratory and instrument tests are all connected to distributed databases and high-performance computing resources   Comparing clinical and research data  Comparing the results coming from clinical data and research data is a very productive process Both clinical and research data might be stored at different locations and have different formats and representations which can make the process of comparing it difficult. An integration pass can benefit from the on-going efforts in the fields of metadata description and Grid Digital Repositories  l g o rithm s  f o r s earch in g a n d retriev ing a  knowledge base and for data mining can be properly defined based on the work carried out in the Grid environment   Data Privacy Some of the distributed sources of data may have strong privacy rules. A highly reliable system must ensure privacy and security The Grid Infrastructures currently available provide various examples of such systems   3. Requirements for Health Grid  Health Grid applications have specific requirements. We have identified six important main categories as specified in the following list  1  Security The security requirement includes authentication, authorization and auditing Through the authentication process, it is possible to know who is accessing a Grid resources and whether this person is allowed to access the Grid network. Authorization allows applications to know what a user is allowed to do in the network or system and what kind of data he or she can access. Through auditing it is possible to record what a user did or tried to do 2  Privacy and confidentiality of data The privacy and confidentiality of medical data requirement can be achieved by removing sensitive patient data from file headers, using de-identification or encrypting data to guarantee its confidentiality and integrity. For instance, the name and personal data of a patient can be removed from the result of an examination and the information stored separately while linked together. Access to patient data will be stored in a highly secure way with strict control over people who can access this information. The result of the examination can instead be made publically available for comparison studies and other purposes 3  Legal and ethical The legal and ethical requirement can be achieved by obtaining explicit consent from patients and by gaining clearance to use data from ethics committees. Grid tools can help enforcing local policies and special access constraints on local data 4  Interoperability of data The interoperability between data stored in different centers and countries has to be taken into account when data are shared over heterogeneous networks and systems. Unfortunately standards for medical data are incomplete. It is fundamental to standardize data format, data structure and data model following existing examples and joining similar efforts in the Grid communities 5  Data access transparency Once medical data are available over a distributed infrastructure and several formats and protocols are used for their encoding and description, it is important to guarantee location independent transparent access to data. This will allow for a true interchange of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


experiences, collaboration and cooperation among specialists sitting at different locations. In order to achieve this goal a storage infrastructure should allow for the preservation of metadata \(contextual data about the information being stored\d the negotiation of supported capabilities. The metadata information could concern for example  the software that has generated the data  their encoding  their validity  security and privacy information  other logically connected data A framework processing such a description could allow for the negotiation of given capabilities with the data access services. When a specialist asks for the retrieval of a given data set the supporting framework will negotiate with the available storage services offering the wanted data set for the one supporting, for example, the requested specific data format, protocol, security and environment. The selection will then be made among the storage services satisfying the requirements 6  Quality of service The quality of service requirement concerns the ability to guarantee, for example, the necessary response time, and the required video or image quality. It can differ depending on the specific medical application. For example, remote surgery requires real-time high quality audio/video quality transmission 4. Related Works in Health Grid  Some Health Care Grid initiatives in the EU, USA and Asia have been identified in order to give an overview of the worldwide efforts in Grid research and development. In 2002 the European Community funded projects specifically in the Health Care field these are Mamm  T h e UK eScience program invested funding between 2001 and 2004 on Health Grid applications such as eDiaMonND  L EF 11] an d C a reGrid 12   The MammoGrid \(European Federated Mammogram Database Implemented on a GRID Structure\ect aimed at developing a pan-European distributed database of mammography images using Grid technologies. The evolution of the MammoGrid project was consistent with the evolution of the European Grid infrastructure from the ED e     The goal of the GEMSS \(Grid-Enabled Medical Simulation Services\ect was to create an innovative Grid middleware to support several medical service applications, including maxillofacial surgery simulation, neuro-surgery support, radio-surgery simulation, inhaled drug delivery simulation, cardiovascular system simulation and advanced medical image reconstruction. These simulation tools can assist medical practitioners in diagnosis, pre-operative planning and near real-time surgery support The eDiaMoND \(on digital mammography\ project aimed at delivering a prototype which could support breast screening in the UK through screening computer-based training, epidemiology study and computer aided detection of breast cancer. It gave patients, physicians and hospitals fast access to a vast database of digital mammogram images. The database was also used for image analysis algorithms, searching mechanisms for data mining and imaging standardization techniques The CLEF \(CLinical E-science Framework\ project has created a scalable generic architecture based on Grid technology for capturing, integrating, interpreting and using clinical data with genomic data and images within practical clinical systems The CareGrid project has developed software for supporting decisions based on trust, privacy, security and context models in the Health Care application domain One topic not yet covered is how to provide support to Health Care applications through the Grid Storage Technology. In what follows we describe what is currently provided by Grid Storage Services highlighting the features that could be exploited  5. Grid Storage Technology  An application running on a Grid infrastructure needs to be able to transparently store and access data distributed at some storage centers. The Grid middleware is responsible for ensuring the transparency of operations over a multitude of hardware and software solutions used to provide reliable and performing storage The need for reliable, scalable, manageable and high performing network storage has led to a proliferation of commercial and customized solutions Each computing center participating to a Grid makes its own choice for a storage system depending on many factors, such as particularly positive experience and good contacts with some vendors, budget considerations, local manpower to maintain and administer the system, and special contacts with reference sites that give guidelines on solutions to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


adopt. As a result, in the Grid we have a great deal of products deployed, all presenting good features and performance, but with a variety of interfaces and implementations. Furthermore, such solutions were designed either for wide area or local use.  Figure 2 shows the storage technologies today in use from complex expensive systems to inexpensive storage solutions. In order to answer to the users need for storage, a system administrator tends to use anything  that is available. In these centres, the computing nodes of a farm can be equipped with a good amount of medium-quality disks or with small reliable storage systems. To reduce the system administration overhead, other sites might decide to go for commercial solutions that can be easily adapted to the environment that the system administrator has to deal with. For instance, this was the case for many sites choosing to install and support classic distributed filesystems, such as the Network File System \(NFS  or t h e A n dre w F i l e Sy st e m  A F S  16], or paral l e l  file systems such as IBM GPFS \(General Parallel File System u st re [18]. L a rg e cen t r e s h a v e  stronger requirements. They must provide high capacity, very reliable, and durable storage. Most of the times, this is achieved with tape-based mass storage systems. High performance tape drives are available in a tape library, a system that comes with a robotic arm and an optical label reader able to find the needed tape in the library and mount it in a free tape drive for reading and/or writing. Proprietary or custom written software drives the tape library. Some centres have decided to adapt proprietary backup or Hierarchical Storage Management systems to manage the robotic libraries and serve user requests A Grid Storage Element \(SE 19  is the set of hardware and software solutions adopted in order to realize a storage Grid service. It hides the difference among specific solutions and allows users to consistently and securely store files at a Grid site The EDG and EGEE EU funded projects provide a generic Grid infrastructure to several communities of scientists which include biology, Health Care and physics. Several working groups have been created to analyze the storage requirements of the user communities these projects serv T h e com m o n  agreement was that an SE is a basic storage resource which provides a uniform interface to storage in a Data Grid together with the following set of useful functionalities  1. Grid users and applications migrate across multiple administrative domains. This has numerous diverse consequences: both a transparent interface for specific, very frequent operations and a set of different communication protocols need to be supported at the same time. Also and more important security protocols used across domains might differ and must be equally and transparently supported. In particular authentication and authorization mechanisms valid across domains must be honored 2. Efficient methods for both local and wide area access must be provided. Reliable and high performing data transfers protocols supported across domains on wide area networks are fundamental 3. Even though Grid-wide privileges should be guaranteed local policies and priorities must be respected 4. Beside the normal user who needs to store permanently his or her data, the Grid introduces a new set of users, the migratory users who use the local storage as intermediate storage to execute transient operations. Therefore a set of storage classes must be available and published in the Figure 2  From complex expensive, systems [on the le o in expe ns ive stor age so luti on s [o n the r i ght  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


information system so that applications and services can take advantage of them. A storage class is a type of storage space with specific attributes. For instance it might offer reliable persistent storage or unreliable scratch space for temporary usage only 5. Grid users also need to have available a set of operations for managing and reserving storage space and for filesystem-like operations such as ls, mkdir, ln, file locks, etc.\ well as different qualities of services that need to be supported by the local storage solution 6. Storage services should also be able to differentiate between valuable and expendable data volatile vs permanent data hen expired reservations are selected for removal. Operations such as transparent  automatic or forced migration to tertiary storage tapes\hould be available. In order to avoid that a file in use is removed by a concurrent application, a mechanism called pinning is used to keep the system from removing files 7. Mechanisms for transparently locating data on any storage device must be provided for debugging reasons and for recovering from disasters, besides implementing specific application needs 8. Storage systems should also provide a mechanism to advertise capacity, st atus, availability and content to an information system 9 Management and monitoring functions for Grid global control of service behavior and functionality are important 10 Support for multiple file access and discovery protocols is requested for those \(legacy applications that need remote file location and access  11 Data integrity mechanisms allow through the usage of checksum and location independent information to ensure correctness of data even after replication or reprocessing 12 Data privacy mechanisms are ensured with the support of side services that allow for instance the storage of encryption keys on distributed servers so as to protect from malicious attempts at a specific site  The community of Grid researchers has invested a big effort in order to understand the needs and requirements for a Grid storage service.  The definition of a standard storage interface has allowed for the virtualization of the storage resources and for a wide range of physical storage devices to be optimally utilized. The Storage Resource Manager \(SRM specification [21 is u s ed to d a y b y  m a n y Grid  sto r ag e  services. Other emerging protocols and data management related services are available and could be used in the context of Health Care. In the next section we provide an overview of the most common protocols used today in the Grid environment for storage services  6. Grid Storage existing protocols   In what follows we list the existing Grid Storage protocols and their characteristics that are important to support Health Grid applications An SRM 21 is a middleware component whose function is to provide dynamic space allocation and file management on shared storage components on the Grid  An SRM is a standardized interf f e red by  a SE that satisfies most of the requirements explained in the previous section. It allows authorized clients to initiate requests for allocating and managing a given amount of space with a given quality. The space can be used to create new files or to access existing files stored in the underlying storage system using a set of negotiated protocols The granularity of the data that SRM can refer to is a file, since more specific granularities such as partial files or objects imply knowledge on the structure of the files being managed by the SRM. Such knowledge is application dependent and cannot be generalized However, data sets and metadata information can be packaged in a file that SRM can manage To illustrate the functionality of an SRM, we illustrate a typical Health Care case study and describe how the SRM can support it. A physician would like to make available to his colleagues sitting at different locations a set of medical information \(or files\ through the Grid. In order to be successful the application the physician uses has to guarantee that the amount of space needed for storing the data is available on the Grid and to his or her application. Therefore, after authentication and authorization are performed, the application can issue SRM requests to allocate or reserve a certain amount of space on a SE with a certain quality \(such as magnetic device or online disks\n order to allow for preservation policies to be applied. Additionally, the app lication is enabled to only use a certain set of data access or transfer protocols For instance, the application manages medical images through proprietary access protocols. Therefore, via the SRM interface, the application can negotiate the provision of an area of space where the requested protocol can be used. As a result, the SRM provides a protocol dependent file handle that the application can use to store or access the data. The application initiates the store session that includes data encryption and storage of encryption keys on specific servers \(like the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


Hydra Keyserve o r m ation can als o  be stored through interfaces such as the SNIA XAM  c ribed later. A ccess C o n t rol L i s t s ca n be  defined on both the data namespace and the storage space to control access and allow or disallow operations on data and the space containing it. Other physicians at a different location on the Grid can check for the availability of the data in order to start further processing. Therefore, the SRM interface provides for a pinning mechanism, filesystem like operations and mechanisms for transparently locating data. Temporary copies of the data can be created at different locations to optimize data access. Data integrity methods used by the storage services guarantee the correctness and authenticity of the data and the associated metadata The space reserved by the application in the example above can have a lifetime that can be finite or infinite. After the lifetime is expired the space can be re-collected by the system and reused to satisfy other requests. Files also have a lifetime and, if not permanent, they can be removed automatically by the system. Additionally, files can have many copies in the system. Such copies have a lifetime pin lifetime When the lifetime expires the copies might be automatically removed by the system. This allows for further security to be imposed allowing a specific time window for given operations. Copies can have a protocol specific handle with a given lifetime. Clients can use such a handle to access the file s copies in read mode or to overwrite an existing copy In order to logically organize and manage files, the SRM offers a namespace similar to the one of a UNIX filesystem. Under a root directory, users can create subdirectories and files. As a result, applications can refer to these files via UNIX-like paths The SRM interface is implemented using a Web Service. It uses SOAP over HTTP. In order to allow for authenticated and authorized access the Grid Security Infrastructur u s ed  Another emerging protocol that is acquiring popularity is NFS v4 F S h a s bee n a v e r y  popular and successful protocol that allows for transparent serving of files and directories from multiple storage servers on a LAN to multiple clients on the same LAN. Among the new features of NFS v4 we can list the following  Improved access and good performance on the Internet  Strong security - The authorization and authentication algorithms used can be dependent on the particular storage server and can be negotiated between server and client. This feature is useful when enforcing local policies on the data and to distinguish between Grid and non-Grid users, for instance  Enhanced cross-platform interoperability Windows and Linux servers can both run the NFS v4 protocol serving files to clients transparently  Extensibility of the protocol - The protocol can be extended to include specific needed features. For instance, NFS v4.1 can be made aware of data or file sets \(files logically grouped together Furthermore, NFS v4.1 provides support for metadata encapsulation, a very attractive feature for Health Care applications While SRM and NFS v4 address the problem of providing uniform interfaces to world-wide distributed Grid Storage Services, the Storage Networking Industry Association \(SNIA\ is promoting the definition of the eXtensible Access Method \(XAM This protocol proposes a way to handle reference information \(also known as fixed content\ the level of a storage device. XAM-enabled devices allow for the timely retrieval of metadata information connected to data. Such metadata provide a way to relocate data across diverse local hardware platforms without compromising data integrity. Current products for storing and managing reference information propose vendor-specific data access and data management methods \(e.g., for naming, retention, and deletion This implies modifications to the application software when integrating with other storage products and applications  T h es e in te g r ation obs tacles als o li m i t  the ability to share reference information among applications. The SNIA XAM protocol and standard interfaces enable for more functional and sophisticated products. For instance, based on the XAM-retrieved metadata content the storage service can trigger automatic data operations before serving the data to a user for access or manipulation. The XAM application programming interface allows for storing data in a fashion that does not depend on the specific storage system. In particular the following functionalities are important to applications and storage systems   A Global location independent unique name is associated with reference information Data are uniquely identified via a location independent name that can be used also to check data integrity This name is associated to reference information that describes in detail the referenced data Reference information such as creation date lifetime of the hosting storage technology, the type of data \(like image and text\w for implementing Information Lifecycle Management ILM w ithin  for in s t a n ce, a X A M based storage system itself   Metadata is strictly coupled with its data This facilitates the data management, access and manipulation together with data interoperability Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


which is one of the main requirements for Health Care applications   Storage systems are accessed via a standard pluggable architecture Hardware and software upgrades can take place without impacting applications. Reference information is stored in a vendor-independent and location-independent manner   XAM also provides a standardized set of management disciplines and semantics for fixed content Such disciplines regulate how to access metadata information and what rules regulate changes in data and metadata  Retention and expiration policies can be enforced through these rules SNIA/XAM provides an interface for storage and metadata management. However, additional standards should be developed to foster greater levels of functionality and integration for Health Care data   Standards to describe the data content   Security information   Common metadata to support data classification standards allowing storage-centric ILM practices that do not depend on the specific application that generated the data   Reference information-naming schemas including standards for embedding structured data into a flat object space \(or metadata information into a flat file\hese schemas will facilitate application integration when processing file systems databases, and other data resources with significant internal structure   Interfaces for bulk movement of reference information such as migrating, backing up, and replicating reference information among XAMtype systems  7. Solution  The EGEE project cof u n d ed by t h e E u ropean Commission and coordinated by CERN, brings together experts from over 32 countries with the common aim of building on recent advances in Grid technology and developing a service Grid infrastructure which is available to scientists 24 hoursa-day. The project provides researchers in academia and industry with access to a production level Grid infrastructure independent of their geographic location The EGEE project also produces a grid middleware distribution called gLite which was born from the collaborative efforts of more than eighty people in twelve different academic and industrial research centers. gLite provides a leeding-edge, best-of-breed framework for building grid applications The entire gLite distribution is composed of several services described in Figure 3      Figure 3: gLite services  The gLite middleware and services have been used to build Digital Repository infrastructures in fields such as environment and biodiversity. An example is given by the D4Science [30 p r oj e c t i nvo l v i n g  participants such as the European Space Agency and the WorldFish Center. The gCub i ddle w are  allows for building an on-demand distributed virtualized environment that includes specialized services to store and access data and metadata and to manipulate them The gLite services that are of interest for Health Grid applications are the Security, Data Management and Storage Services. We examine them and highlight their importance in the Health Care context The basic services to allow for authorization authentication and auditing are the Grid Security Infrastructure based on X509 certificates and the Virtual Organization Management Server \(VOMS\ that allows for the assignment of specific roles to individuals or for the definition of specific groups [32  Grid services can then use such definitions to allow or disallow access to resources based on Virtual Organization defined policies. The Hydra Keyserver developed at CERN allows for the management of split keys that can be used for encryption and decryption of data From a Data Management point of view, the AMGA metadata catalogue allo w s f o r t h e  management of metadata information associated to specific sets of data. Metadata can be associated to Grid universal data identifiers that the LCG File Catalogue \(LFC s o ciates to phy s i ca l data  available on a set of Storage Elements in the Grid The Disk Pool Manager \(DPM an S R Menabled Grid storage service that provides the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


functionalities described above. In [36, 37 it is described the experiment of serving medical data images stored in Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine \(DICOM o rm at ov er t h e Grid a n d  make them available in a trusted way to a set of hospitals participating in the experiment SNIA/XAM enabled technology has still not been exploited for Health Care purposes. We intend to provide a prototype where XAM enabled storage elements will be used to manage Health Care metadata information  8. Validation of Solutions  The interoperability between various standards and the exchange of data amongst different resources constitutes an importan t issue in Health Care applications Standards allow institutes to transmit clinical data and images from the electronic patient folder to different hospital sites requiring these elements for diagnosis, medical studies and treatment Medical image examination is a subset of the medical folder that includes images, prescription, reports of specimen analysis and other elements  A system called ETICS eInfrastructure for Testing Integration and Configuration of Software 39, 40, 41  bee n des igne d to aut o mate the inves tigation o f  the interoperability between various standards and the exchange of data among different resources.  It provides a service for software projects and infrastructures by integrating well-established procedures, tools and resources in a coherent framework and adapting them to the special needs of distributed software These tools help improving the interoperability of software applications and middleware components, evaluating software by comparing it with published standards and validating the portability of the software across different operating systems  The ETICS system is addressed to projects developing Grid and distributed software to help them define processes, methodologies and tools to implement static and dynamic analysis \(such as evaluating the adherence to user defined coding conventions, making custom analysis like IPv6 compliance, evaluating the code coverage for unit tests\ertheless, the ETICS system is equally oriented towards non-Grid projects  plementation of how the ETIC S  system supports interoperability issues is described taking into consideration the DICOM standard      9. Conclusions  In this work we have identified the Grid services that could facilitate the integration and interoperation of Health Care data and frameworks world-wide While many of the current Health Care Grid projects address issues such as data location and description on the Grid and the security aspects the problems connected to data storage, integrity, preservation and distribution have been neglected. We have identified the currently available Grid storage services and protocols that can come in handy when dealing with those problems. We are planning to make available a prototype infrastructure using EGEE gLite as a proof of concept for implementing our ideas In the future, we envisage using the existing EGEE gLite infrastructure deploying the additional Grid services identified in this paper in order to provide a Grid platform for the distribution and sharing of medical information. We have identified a few medical communities that have expressed interest in exposing their data into this proposed Grid infrastructure  References   I F o st er C Kessel m an  an d S  T u ecke  The Anatomy of the Grid: Enabling Scalable Virtual Organizations In International Journal of Supercomputer Applications vol 15, no. 3, pp. 200 222, 2001 http://www.globus.org/research/papers/anatomy.pdf 2 V Bre ton, K  D e a n a nd T  So lom onide s   The Healthgrid White paper In Proceedings of Healthgrid 2005 \(From Grid to HealthGrid\, IOS Press, vol. 112, pp. 249-321, 2005  W  L e ist e r S  M a zah er J I Vestgrd en  B  Jo h a n s en    B.  Nordlund Grid and related technologies Number 1000,  Norsk Regnesentral, 2004, ISBN 82-536-508-4  A   A b b a s  Grid Computing: A Practi cal   Guide   to Technology   and   Applications In Charles River Media  2004  I Bal a si n g h a m  H Ih l e n   W   L ei st er P  R  e and E    Samset Communication of Medical Images, Text, and Messages in Inter-Enterprise Systems: A Case Study  in Norway In IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine,  Vol. 11, N. 1, pp: 7-13, Jan 2007 6 T h e Serv ice Lev e l Ag ree m e n t, htt p w ww slazone.co.uk 7  P  W a tr y  a nd R  La rs on Cheshire 3 framework white paper: implementing support for digital repositories in a data grid environment In Proceedings of Challenges and Technologies of Local to Global Data interoperability, pp 60-84, 20-24 June 2005 8 R. W a rren, T  S o l o m oni des, C. del  Frate, I. W a rsi  J  Ding, M. Odeh, R. McClatchey, C. Tromans, M. Brady, R Highnam, M. Cordell, F. Estrella, and S. R Amendolia Mammogrid - A Prototype Distributed Mammographic Database for Europe In Clinical Radiology  vol. 62, no. 11, pp. 1044-1051, June 2007 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


  GEMSS \(Grid-Enabled Medical Simulation Services Project http://www.it.neclab.eu/gemss 1 UK e-Science eDiaMoND Project  http://www.ediamond.ox.ac.uk 11  CLEF integrating information for the clinical eScientist http://www.clinical-escience.org/start.html 12 Y. Liu, J. Bacon, and R. Wilson-Hinds On smart-care services: Studies of visually impaired users in living context In Proceedings of the First International Conference on the Digital Society \(ICDS 07\p. 32-40, IEEE Press January 2007 13  European Data Grid \(EDG\ Project  http://www.edg.org 14  EGEE \(Enabling Grid for E-sciencE\roject  http://www.eu-egee.org 1 P  S   Yeager  A distributed file system for distributed conferencing system Thesis, University of Florida, 2003 16 A FS File Sy s t e m  http://lxr.linux.no/linux/Documentation/filesystems/afs.txt 17 IBM G e ne ra l P a ra lle l File Sy ste m http://www 03.ibm.com/systems/clusters/software/gpfs/index.html 18 L u stre File Sy s t em   http://www.sun.com/software/products/lustre 19 G A S t e w a r t   G  A C o wa n  B  D u n n e  A E l w e l l  a n d  A. P. Miller Optimising LAN access to grid enabled storage elements In Journal of Physics: Conference Series vol 119, 2008 20 Ba s e line Se rv ic e s W o rk ing  G r oup  http://lcg.web.cern.ch/LCG/peb/BS 21 A  Shos ha n i  P  K u ns z t H  Stoc k i ng e r K  Stoc k i ng e r E Laure, J.-P. Baud, J. Jensen, E. Knezo, S. Occhetti, O Wynge, O. Barring, B. Hess, A. Kowalski, C. Watson, D Petravick, T. Perelmutov, R. Wellner, J. Gu, and A. Sim  Storage Resource Management: Concepts, Functionality, and Interface Specification GGF 10, The Future of Grid Data Environment, 9-13 March 2004, Humboldt University, Berlin Germany 22 A  Sim   A  Shos ha ni P. Ba dino, O  Ba rring J  P Ba u d   F. Donno, M. Litmaath, T. Perelmutov, D. Petravick, E Corso, L. Magnoni, J. Gu, S. De Witt, J. Jensen, M. HaddoxSchatz, B. Hess, A. Kowalski, and C. Watson The Storage Resource Manager Interface Specification Version 2.2  OGF-GSM, 24 May 2008 23 D. G illia m   Summary report on enterprise security workshop In Proceedings of the Eleventh IEEE International Workshops on Enabling Technologies Infrastructure for Collaborative Enterprises, pp. 43-46, 2002 24 St ora g e N e t w ork i ng Indus try  A s s o c i a tion Information Management Extensible Access Method \(XAM Part 1 Architecture, Version 1.0 2 April 2008 http://www.snia.org/forums/xam/technology/specs/XAM_Ar ch_v1.0_Apr6.pdf 25  S. Ca m p a n a  A  D e lga do Pe ris  F. D o nn o P. Me n d e z  Lorenzo, R. Santinelli, and A. Sciaba  Toward a Grid Technology Inde pendent Programming Interface for HEP Applications In Proceedings of CHEP2004, Sept. 27 - Oct 1, 2004 Interlaken, Switzerland 26 NF S v 4  htt p w ww n f s v 4 org  27 L  W ood Getting a Fix on Fixed Content 9 June 2006, Enterprise Storage Forum.com http://www.enterprisestorageforum.com/continuity/features/a rticle.php/3612266  In f o r m atio n L i f e c y cle Man a m g e m e n t Sol u tions  http://www.solix.com/information_lifecycle_managem ent_solutions.htm  d le w a re A r c h itect u r e, Augu s t 2004 https://edms.cern.ch/file7476451/1.0/Architecture.pdf  ce, h ttp www d 4s cien ce.eu 31 gCub e  ht t p    w w w  g c u b e s yst e m o r g   32 V O M S http   voms.forge.cnaf.infn.it 33 A M GA http://c e r n  c h a m g a   3 J.P Bau d J. Casey  S   L e maitre, C. Nich o l son  G   Stewart LCG Data Management: From EDG to EGEE  http://www.gridpp.ac.uk/papers/ah05_dataman.pdf 35 L C G Dis k P o o l Man a g e r \(DP M   https://twiki.cern.ch/twiki/bin/view/LCG/DpmAdminGuide 36 J  M onta g na t et al  Bridging clinical information systems and grid middleware: a Medical Data Manager In Proceedings of HealthGrid conference \(HealthGrid 06\, pp 14 24, Spain, June 2006 37 J  M o n t a g na t, T  G l a t a r d, D  L i ng ra nd R  T e x i e r   Exploiting production grid infrastructures for medical images analysis In Proceedings of the First SingaporeanFrench Biomedical Imaging Workshop \(SFBI'06\Singapore Oct 2006 38 D i g ita l Im a g ing  a nd Com m unic a tions in Me dic i ne   http://medical.nema.org 3 M  B  gi n   et al  Build, Configuration, Integration and Testing Tools for Large Software Projects: ETICS In Springer Verlag Lecture Notes in Computer Science \(LNCS Series, LNCS 4401, pp: 81-97, 2007 4 M  B  gi n   et al  Analysis of Requirements for Automated Interoperability Testing In Proceedings of the Tenth World Conference on Integrated Design & Process Technology, IDPT 2007, Antalya, Turkey, June 3-8, 2007  41 S. D a Ronc o, G  D i e z A ndi no Sa nc h o L  D i ni, E Ronchieri, and M. Selmi Integrated Solutions For Information Sharing In Health Care Applications  Proceedings of the 41 st Hawaii International Concerence on System Sciences, IEEE Computer Society, pp. 254, January 7-10, 2008, Big Island, Hawaii 42 E. Ro nc hie r i, M  E. Be g i n a nd C. Vis t oli A Study of Multi-Node Mechanism to Interoperability Issue  Proceedings of the Eleventh World Conference on Integrated Design and Process Technology \(IDPT 2008\, June 1-6 2008, Asia University, Taichung, Taiwan   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


services across Europe. Further research could investigate how these improved standards in the field of electronic invoicing further affect the buyer-seller relationships The main limitation of our study is that it focuses on one single company. To extend the current study we have already conducted preliminary interviews in seven companies and two public organizations  7. References  1 Ca nn on, J   P    P e rre a u lt W  D  J r 1999 u y e rSeller Relationships in Business Markets Journal of Marketing Research Vol. 36, No 4, November 1999: 439460  2 EEI 2 0 07 Eur ope a n Ele c t ronic I n v o ic ing  http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/ict/policy/standards/einvoicin g/2007-07-eei-final-rep-3-2.pdf, accessed 28.3.2008  3 Bru n, M  2 00 7 Ele c t ronic Inv oic i ng t o the  Pu blic  Sector in Denmark, http://www.epractice.eu/cases/EID accessed 29.11.2007  4 D w y e r F. R., D a hls t rom   R D i N o v o T  1995  Buyer-Seller Relationships Theoretical Perspectives. In Mller, K. & Wilson, D. \(Eds Business Marketing: An Interaction and Network Perspective USA: Kluwer Academic Publishers, pp. 71-109  5 R i ng  P   Va n de Ve n  A   1992 Str u c t ur i n g  Cooperative Relationships Between Organizations Strategic Management Journal vol. 13, 483-498  6  P e ntt i ne n  E  P a lm e r J  20 07 prov ing Firm  Positioning Through Enhanced Offerings and Buyer-Seller Relationships Industrial Marketing Management vol. 36 552-564  7 M lle r, K W ilson, D 1 995  n e ss Ma rk e ting   an Interaction and Network Perspective. USA: Kluwer Academic Publishers   Co ase R 1 93 7 T h e n a t u r e o f t h e f i r m   Economica  IV, pp. 386 405  9 W illia m s on, O. \(19 85 The economic institutions of capitalism The Free Press, New York  1 L l ewel l y n  K 1 9 3 1   W h at P r i ce Con t r act  A n E s s a y In Perspective Yale Law Journal 40, 704-751  11 U l a g a  W  a nd Eg g e rt A  2005 e la ti ons h i p Va lue i n  Business Markets: The Construct and Its Dimensions Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing 12, 73-99  12 Heid e, Jan B. \(1 9 9 4  In tero r g a n izatio n a l G o v e rn an ce  in Marketing Channels Journal of Marketing 58 \(January 71-85  1 Beal e H an d Du gd al e  T   1 97 5   Con t r act Bet w een  Businessmen: Planning and the Use of Contractual Remedies British Journal of Law and Society 2 \(1\ 45-60  14 Macn eil I. \(1 9 8 0  The New Social Contract New Haven, CT: Yale University Press  15 A nde rs on J  a n d N a rus  J  19 90 Mo de l of  Distributor Finn and Manufacturer Firm Working Partnerships Journal of Marketing 54 \(January\2-58  1 Yin  R    1 99 4   Case Study Research: Design and Methods 2nd ed.\ge Publications Inc. Thousand Oaks CA  17 Sa n d a y P  19 83 T h e e t hnog ra phic pa ra dig m s  J. Maanen, \(Ed Qualitative methodology Sage Publications  18 H a rv ey  L   J  M y e r s  M D  199 5 ho la rs hip a n d  practice: The contribution of ethnographic research methods to bridging the gap Information Technology and People 8 \(3\, pp. 13 27  19 P e ttig re w  A  1985 C ont e x tua lis t re s e a r c h a nd t h e  study of organizational change processes. In: E. Mumford R. Hirschheim, G. Fitzgerald and A. Wood-Harper \(Eds Research methods in information systems Amsterdam North Holland  2 M a gn et  M  19 94  T h e Ne w  G o l d en Ru l e o f  Business Fortune February 21\, 60-64  21 T i e k e  2008  Ve r k k o la s k us a n a s to T he g l os s a r y o f  electronic invoicing, in Finnish\ Available http://www.tieke.fi/mp/db/file_library/x/IMG/15715/file/V erkkolaskusanasto.pdf. Accessed 27.4.2008  22 Boe r de T Booiji nk T L i e z e nbe rg C. & N i e nhuis   J., Bryant, C. & Pruneau, A. \(2008\invoicing 2008 European market description and analysis. Euro Banking Association \(EBA\nd Innopay, February 2008. Available http://realtimeeconomy.net/wiki/show/1/business_services Accessed 18.2.2008  2 M a vo nd o F  R o d r i go  E   2 00 8   Th e e f f ect o f  relationship dimensions on interpersonal and interorganizational commitment in organizations conducting business between Australia and China Journal of Business Research 52\(2\, pp. 111-121  2 C h u  K   Kraem e r K L   Gu rb axan i   V  and  X u  S  X   2006\ Migration to Open-Standard Interorganizational Systems: Network Effects, Switching Costs, and Path Dependency MIS Quarterly 30 \(special issue\, pp. 515539 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


I = \(r? r d?\(0   2  0  1 c  If the integral is positive for all admissible r? then the recursive identification algorithm converges to r IV. REFERENCES 1. Mehra R.K. On the identification of variances and adaptive Kalman filtering. IEEE Trans. on AC. 1970. V. AC15. P. 175-184 2. Isaksson A. Identification of time varying systems through adaptive Kalman filtering. Proc. of the 10th IFAC Congress. Munich. 1987. V. 10. P. 305-310 3. Ljung L. Analysis of recursive stochastic algorithms IEEE Trans. on AC. 1977. V. AC-22. P. 551-571 4. Ljung L, Soderstrom T. Theory and practice of recursive identification. Cambridge: MIT Press. 1983 1701 pre></body></html 


  12 5  C ONCLUSIONS  The investigations in this report yield three important conclusions for improving valid ation and verification of aerospace systems\222 performance requirements, and suggest a number of investigatory extensions. The improvements should be extensible to validation and verification of any performance requirement for any aerospace system Verification Planning Usi ng Conditional Approaches Reduces Numbers of Tests Required Conditional approaches are used as the basis for applying decision theory. Veri fication for aerospace systems always supports the decision making process for acceptance of the system. Therefore, verification planning using conditional approaches is suitable and appropriate for aerospace systems As demonstrated in section 2 of this report, conditional approaches can be used with models of maximum objectivity to eliminate most, if not all, questionable assumptions. This is not possible when developing a verification plan using classical statistical methods. As observed with the Orion LAS mission assurance requirement example, the use of maximum objectivity models in verification planning did not introduce any unnecessary inherent conserva tism, producing verification plans using fewer numbers of tests, with higher probabilities of verification success than those developed using classical statistical methods. This results in more cost feasible verification plans due to the reduced numbers of tests that need to be performed Requirements Validation is Improved by Using Historical Data When considering verification planning for a stringent aerospace system requirement, hi storical surrogate systems data may be used with conditional methods to investigate actual achieved requirement performance levels in both verification and operations as a function of residual risk Surrogate systems that were fiel ded, were verified to satisfy their performance requirements at stated verification risk levels, and were cost feasible in design, manufacturing, and verification. Conditional approaches allow this validation process to be performed without any knowledge of the actual requirements levied on the surrogate systems, and without using any indefensible assumptions As was observed in this report for the proposed mission assurance requirement for the Orion LAS, 41 surrogate systems actually performed close to the Orion LAS requirement in operations considering the aggregated data However, none of these surrogate systems were verified to the level of the proposed Orion LAS mission assurance requirement with the stated residual verification risk. This suggests that the industry that produced the surrogates, and that will produce the Orion LAS, may indeed design and built such systems to perform at levels that cannot be verified at those levels at a feasible cost. Relaxing the stringency of the Orion LAS mission assurance requirement to the 0.97 level for verification purposes should be valid based on results from processing the aggregate surrogate systems data Further, consider that the Ares I rocket will be designed manufactured, and verified by the same industry that does so for the Orion LAS. A 0.97 mission assurance for the Ares I means that there is a 3% risk of failure. The Orion LAS with a mission assurance requirement of 0.97 has a 3 risk of failing, given that the Ares I fails. With these values for mission assurance requirements for both vehicles, the actual risk of loss of crew due to failure of the Orion LAS when the Ares I fails is the product of these two risks, a 0.09% risk When ground test and flight data from surrogate systems is available, conditional approaches may be used to validate both the level of required performance and required maximum acceptable verification risk for the system of interest Greater Verification Plan Achievability and Feasibility Results from Combining Conditional Approaches with Historical Data Beyond the improvements offered to verification planning when using conditional approaches, the cost feasibility can be further improved if historical surrogate system data are available. As seen for verification of the Orion LAS mission assurance requirement in Table 5, once relaxed to a validated level, a verification plan taking advantage of the historical surrogate systems\222 ground test data can be developed that can be cost feasible, with a greatly improved probability of verification success Extensions to the Investigations Conditional approaches may be used to predict future system performance based on observed data, i.e., test results 7 n s id erin g th at an ticip ated use of the Orion LAS may be limited to fewer than 100 flights, it is possible to predict the probabilities for number of failures of the Orion LAS among a fixed number of flights, given numbers of surrogate ground test and fli ght successes and failures and actual Orion LAS verification results. Factoring these results into verification planni ng, coupled with requirements validation based on processing surrogate data using conditional approaches, may yield further improvements in cost feasibility for verification of stringent requirements for aerospace systems  


  13 R EFERENCES  1 th o n y J. Hayter, Pro b ab ility an d Statistics fo r En g i n eers and Scientists, Third Edition, Belmont, CA, Duxbury 2007 2 C. J. Clo p p er  E S Pear son, \223The Use of Confidence or Fiducial Limits Illustrated in the Case of the Binomial,\224 Biometrika, 26, 404-413, 1934   Jam e s O. Berger, Statis tical Decision Theory and Bayesian Analysis, Second Edition. Springer-Verlag, New York, 1980 4 A. Po well, \223Op tim al an d  Ad ap tab l e Reliab ility Test Planning Using Conditional Methods,\224 Proceedings from the 14 th Annual International Symposium, International Council on Systems Engineering, Toulouse, FR, June 20\226 24, 2004  Harold Jeffreys, Theory of Probability. Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1939  Edward Jaynes, \223Prior Pr obabilities\224. IEEE Transactions Systems, Science and Cybernetics, 4, 227-291, 1968   Jose Bernardo and Adrian Smith, Bayesian Theory. John Wiley & Sons, LTD, New York, 1994   Howard Raifa and Robert Sc hlaifer, Applied Statistical Decision Theory. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. New York 1960 9 Brian Mu irh ead 223Co n stella tion Architecture and System Margins Strategy,\224 Proceedin gs from the International Astronautical Congress, Glasgo w, Scotland, September 29 226 October 3, 2008 10  Sco tt \223Do c\224 Ho ro witz, \223Cu rren t  Co n stellatio n  Planning,\224 presented to the House Science and Technology Committee Staff, March 13, 2007   M a rk A. Powell, Safety and M i ssion Assurance Special Assessments, CxP Orion LAS Verification Planning Evaluation Report, Repository Number: JS-2008-002 November 12, 2007      B IOGRAPHY  Mark Powell has practiced Systems Engineering for over 35 years in a wide range of technical environments including DoD, NASA, DOE, and commercial. More than 25 of those years have been in the aerospace arena. His roles in these environments have included project manager, engineering manager, chief systems engineer, and research scientist. He is currently an adjunct member of the Stevens Institute of Technology Syst ems Engineering Faculty, and of the University of Houston, Clear Lake Systems Engineering Faculty. Mr. Powell maintains an active engineering and management c onsulting practice \(currently in affiliation with SAIC\ North America, Europe, and Asia. Beyond consulting, he is sought frequently as a symposium and conference speaker and for training workshops, and tutorials on various topics in Systems Engineering, Project Management, and Risk Management Mr. Powell is an active member of AIAA, Sigma Xi, the International Society for Bayesian Analysis, and the International Council on Systems Engineering, where he serves as Assistant Direct or for Systems Engineering Processes  


  14  


2008, vol. 278/2008. Boston: Springer, July 2008, pp. 477  492 24] T. Neubauer, C. Stummer, and E. Weippl  Workshop-based Multiobjective Security Safeguard Selection  in Proceedings of the First International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security ARES IEEE Computer Society, 2006, pp. 366  373 25] T. Neubauer and C. Stummer  Interactive Decision Support for multiobjective COTS Selection  in Proceedings of the 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, no. 01, 2007 26    Extending Business Process Management to Determine Ef?cient IT Investments  in Proceedings of the 2007 ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, 2007, pp. 1250  1256 27] W3C  OWL - web ontology language  http://www.w3.org/TR/owlfeatures/, February 2004 28] J. Burtles, Principles and Practice of Business Continuity: Tools and Techniques. Rothstein Associates Inc., 2007 29] T. R. Peltier, Information Security Risk Analysis, 2nd ed. Auerbach Publications, 2005 30] S. Kairab and L. Kelly, A Practical Guide to Security Assessments Boston, MA, USA: Auerbach Publications, 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


well as from practitioners, is available, IL strategy including DWH/BI strategy IL strategies are addressed at all, either actual artifacts/documents are proposed without an integrating meta model/methodology, or the strategy making process is described without proposing specific and consistent result templates/structures Since it consumes a significant amount of resources and may constitute significant potentials for business, IL needs strategy. IL strategy must not be limited to hardware/software selection and architectural considerations, but should address the entire business scope of sourcing services, integrating acquired and self-made services into customer-oriented IL solutions, and delivering such solutions to create customer value Our survey of the state of IL strategy in practice reveals that IL sourcing, IL delivery and IL portfolio strategies are regarded as important strategy components. The larger companies are, the more international their focus is, and the more their IL is organized according to the CC model, the more components of a supply-chain oriented explicit IL strategy they are likely to have deployed The IIM model provides a suitable conceptual foundation for structuring such strategy components and also provides best practices from IT management which often can be easily adapted to IL. Regarding IL product/service development and maintenance certain functional oriented strategy sub-components are differentiated in our framework. These strategy components are adapted from an established data management functional framework in order to reflect IL specifics. While traditional, more technically oriented sub-components such as system and data architecture are covered in most companies, business oriented components like change management and project/business requirements management are covered less frequently. Additional research is necessary to develop appropriate solution components based on existing fragments and experiences Based on a more complete comprehension of IL strategy and its components, the strategy development and update process needs to be addressed in future research as well. Instead of developing and updating business strategies, IT strategies and IL strategies in independent processes, dependencies and cycles need to be addressed. A comprehensive understanding of IL strategy and respective processes may also serve as a foundation for establishing maturity models, reference models and best practices  References 1] Arnott, D. and G. Pervan, Eight key issues for the decision support systems discipline. Decision Support Systems 44\(3  2] Baum  l, U., Strategic Agility through Situational Method Construction. Proceedings of the European Academy of Management Annual Conference 2005, 2005  3] Burton, B., et al., Activity Cycle Overview: Business Intelligence and Information Management. Gartner Research G00138711, 2006  4] Chan, J.O., Optimizing Data Warehousing Strategies Communications of the IIMA, 5\(1  5] Earl, M., Management Strategies for Information Technology, Prentice Hall, New York et al., 1989  6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





