Towards a Practical Approach for Electronic Government Interoperability Framework \(e-GIF   Apitep Saekow and Dr. Choompol Boonmee Thammasat University Rangsit Campus, Pathumthani, Thailand  apitep@yahoo.com  choompol@tu.ac.th    Abstract  Nowadays, many countries have adopted electronic Government Interoperability Framework \(e-GIF\r their interoperable systems. The e-GIFs normally set out the policies, standards, guidelines and technical 
structure. Our literature review shows that the failure that governments face regar ding e-GIFs includes lack of experience in their implementation. In fact, only following the suggested open standards, policies and contexts guideline in e-GIFs may be insufficient. The successful e-GIF adoption needs more practical implementation support. This paper proposes a practical approach to electronic government interoperability. The approach considers the adoption of Interoperability Practical Implementation Support IPIS\ool. In this paper, we develop the IPIS tool and evaluate the results. A comparison between 
approaches with and without the IPIS tool illustrates significant differences. The case in this paper is a Thailand e-GIF pilot project to build a common XML schema standard for data exchange   1. Introduction  Since 2000, e-Government Interoperability Framework \(e-GIF\as become a crucial issue because recent ICT investments have reinforced the old barriers that made government decision-making, not to mention citizen access to public services, difficu Government interoperability can be achieved through the adoption of standards or through architecture to 
each other and to the environment, and the principles guiding, its design and activity  m a ny coun t r i e s  the e-GIFs are defined as a set of standards and guidelines that set out a common language to govern exchange of information between ICT systems. The governments have adopted the e-GIFs for their interoperable systems. However, the challenges that governments face regarding e-GIF include: 1 bureaucratic challenges due to the nature of bureaucracy and the lack of accountability of different 
agencies; 2\uring compliance or enforcement of the adopted standards; 3\ capacity development; and 4 using the right metrics to measure the success of the eGIF In f act, t h e bigger an d m o re co m p lex t h e  bureaucracy, the more difficult it is to implement an eGIF Many governmental departments have entrenched cultures which avoid openness and cooperation with others. This makes the e-GIF adoption become more difficult. Moreover, in   complying with e-GIFs, there 
is no guarantee that other agencies will truly follow. It would be more cautious for governments to adopt an incentives-based approach to e-GIFs complian The e-GIFs implementation based solely on voluntary compliance is not a viable solution. Governments might have to develop mechanisms to enforce extensive use of the e-GIFs.  A successful e-GIF should respond to realities that specific governments face. The particular conditions of each country are also a considered factor of the successful e-GIF adoption 
Nowadays, many e-GIFs still focused on contents based guidelines, suggestions and contexts. In fact merely following the suggested open standards policies and contexts guideline is inadequate. Thus governments have still been facing non e-GIF compliant projects and some failures regarding e-GIF One failure includes inexperience with e-GIF implementation. The successful e-GIF adoption needs more practical implementation supports and successful experiences and skills. The literature reveals surprisingly little work on practical e-GIF 
developments guidelines, which could prevent failure This paper presents a practical approach for e-GIF. The approach considers adding the Interoperability Practical Implementation Support \(IPIS\ to the e-GIF approach. The IPIS is a set or an integration of the support tools. It assists implementing interoperable projects through e-GIF approach. In this paper, we Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


developed the IPIS tool to support a Thailand e-GIF pilot project. The project aimed to build common XML schema standards for interoperability in data exchange We then evaluate the results of using the IPIS tool and compare them with a project that did not use the tool The results show that the successful e-GIF adoption needs a practical support application in addition to standards and guidelines The paper is organized as follows: First, an introduction of conceptual background, interoperability layers, and e-GIF concepts. Then, the basic concepts of IPIS, conceptual model, architecture and application are presented. The evaluation and comparison results are described. Finally, the conclusions are presented  2. Conceptual background  Interoperability is the ability of a system or process to use information and/or functionality of another system or process by adhering to common standards 3 n tero p erab ility arc h itectu re is mad e u p o f a ran g e  of complementary technical specifications, systems standards, guidelines and polices e garding the  concept of interoperability architecture, most e-GIFs have been designed to fall under the three dimensions of interoperability as follows     O r g a n i z a t i o n a l  i n t e r o p e r a b i l i t y  is concerned with the coordination and alignment of business processes and information architectures    I n f o r m a t i o n  o r  s e m a n t i c  i n t e r o p e r a b i l i t y  is concerned with ensuring that the precise meaning of exchanged information is understandable by an application receiving the data    T e c h n i c a l  i n t e r o p e r a b i l i t y  is concerned with the technicalities of connecting computer systems for the purpose of exchanging information or using functionality  Based on these dimensions, e-GIFs adopted several standards to ensure interoperability across governments  A s t anda rd is an agree ment amo ng in depen dent  parties about how to deal with some tasks. The standards help to define component interfaces technical techniques, and data. The main thrust nowadays is to adopt open and international standards for all government systems and to adopt XML and XSL as the core standards for data integration and the pres This leads to increas ed  interoperability, and to simpler, repeatable and quicker integration efforts [1 o me e-GIF s focus o n  improving standards for b  b u s i n e s s  s e r v i c e s These standards are meant to support data exchange particularly in business areas like e-learning, e-health etc. Another extension to th e layers is categories of standards for w  w e b b a s e d  s e r v i c e s These standards connect and integrate web-based applications over the internet [18, 20 n  ad d itio n to ac h i ev in g  interoperability through the standards, architectures have a crucial role in ensuring e-government interoperability success. The standards and architectures are two related approaches to interoperability.  In Germany, governments developed an interoperable approach by including architecture and standards in one document called èGermanyês Standards and Architecture for e-Government Applications \(SAGA a European Union context, they are also endeavoring to adopt e-GIF including the standards and architectures, to develop pan-European services [10 However, in practice, architecture design is not a static concept. It will change and grow as administrations develop interoperable services, as technologies evolve, and as administrations change Implementing all of the principles of an interoperable architecture will take time and may require tailoring of the possible solutions.  Even the standards, their selection and categorization will differ from place to place.  For example, the EU and German frameworks grouped standards according to services \(i.e. job search, income tax, enrolment in university, etc.\, and used these to address the three dimensions of interoperability [10,11 Un lik e e-GIFs in Au stralia [1   Br mark 6 Mal ays ia [20 New Zealan d  d the UK [5] appr oach  interoperability standards by the technical aspects such as interconnection, data integration, metadata presentation, and security T h es e dy namic interoperable concepts make the implementation through e-GIFs become harder and more unachievable especially for e-GIF initiatives. Furthermore, the successful e-GIF implementation will need to address many challenges, including complex bureaucracies and agencies, compliance, enforcement and capacity development [1 F o r e x amp le, in Thailan d a n e-GIF  initiative was announced in October 2006 called èTH e-GIFê [19  As an in itiativ e  p r actically imp l emen tin g  e-Government projects thr ough TH e-GIF has experienced obstacles and failures. To reduce the failures the successful e-GIF adoption needs more practical implementation support and successful experiences Our practical approach presented in this paper is one of the interoperability approaches to fill the gap of e-GIFs    3.   IPIS: basic concepts  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


This section proposes a more practical approach for electronic government interoperability. The approach considers the addition of Interoperability Practical Implementation S upport \(IPIS former interoperability approach under e-GIF to fill the gap between concepts and practices   3.1 Conceptual Model  Figure 1 shows a conceptual model focused on our approach. The model comprises three layers: Noninteroperability, Interoperability practical approach and Interoperability implementation. Non-interoperability among organizations is concerned. On an interoperability practical approach level, a new interoperability practical approach was introduced in order to achieve interoperability among the organizations. The approach emphasized the adoption of IPIS with e-GIF guideline. Based on e-GIF guideline, the use of UN/CEFACT Modeling Methodology \(UMM\was proposed. UMM is a UML modeling approach to design the business services that each business partner must provide in order to collaborate [24 formation or a s e mantic interoperability level, UN/CEFACT Recommend 34  o re com pone nt technic a l specification \(CCTS  O 11 179 are fre qu ent l y gui ded i n e-GIF s t o  standardizing and harmonizing data, and UN/CEFACT XML naming and design rule s i n t rod uced t o  standardizing/naming XML schemas At the level of technical interoperability, in e-GIFs the technical standards catalogue will be defined. The catalogue is a set of specifications that conform to the technical policies It co vers the a r ea s s u ch as data exc hange  interconnection, data integration, presentation and security In our approach the addition of IPIS was proposed Fundamentally, the IPIS is a set or an integration of interoperable support tools Those tools are designed and developed to assist implementation of interoperable e-GIF projects. The tools include a business process modeling tool, a data modeling tool an XML designing and developing tool, a web services developing tool and a technical standards usage support tool    Business process modeling tool    a tool to   support in modeling/specifying business  processes of an organization using UMM     Data modeling tool   a tool to support in standardizing/harm onizing data based on   UN/CEFACT CCTS and Recommend 34   Figure 1.  A conceptual model     XML designing and developing tool a tool to assist in designing/generating XML schema standard based on UN/CEFACT XML naming and design rule \(XML NDR   Web service developing tool a tool to develop web service implementing modules such as SOAP call and service    Technical standards usage support tool a tool to describe/demonstrate how to implement each technical standard guided in the e-GIF technical standards catalogue  Those tools in IPIS can be developed in individual or developed as integration. The tools are defined as IPIS tools   At a level of interoperability implementation, a set of reusable business process models, data standardized sets, XML schema standards, e-Services and technical standards are required. Based on the interoperability practical approach using IPIS, it will automatically accomplish some of those required interoperability implementing components  3.2 Model Driven Tool Development   In order to develop the IPIS tools, we design a Model Driven Tool Development \(MDTD\based on Model-Driven Architecture \(MDA c ept. W e  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


see the MDTD as a new architectural approach for developing interoperable soft ware tools based on Figure 2. Model driven tool development   interoperability requirements. The MDTD starts with an interoperability requirement independent model IRIM\g the interoperability requirement for the IPIS tool development. The IRIM is further refined to an Interoperability Requirement Specific Model IRSM\he IRSM is a model for designing software modules. In order to structure the IRIMs or IRSMs, we adopt the UMM. We design software modules based on IRSMs and implement/coding them with respect to software technology platform. Figure 3 shows a Model Driven Tool Development in our approach  4. IPIS: Application   In this section, we applied the concept of our approach to a TH e-GIF pilot project. The project                   aimed to build common XML schema standards for interoperability in data exchange among governmental departments. Figure 3 illustrates overall concepts of the project. The project was performed based on TH e-GIF guideline. The figure also shows different models between the approaches with and without IPIS   4.1 Project Concept and Approach   TH e-GIF guideline TH e-GIF sets out technical policies standards and  specifications. It also provides a guideline and a  procedure to build and manage XML schema standards   T h e m odel in co rporates UN/C E FA C T  Recommendation 34, Core Component Technical Specification \(CCTS\d UN/CEFACT XML Naming and Design rules \(XML NDR\. The recommendation 34 is to assist governments in simplifying and standardizing. It is an iterative process of capturing defining, analyzing, and reconciling government information requirements, and then mapping this simplified data to international standards [25  Capturing process is to capture individual participating agency information requirements through identifying and listing the data elements. Defining process is to record the data element name, definition representation \(format or code\alyzing process is to analyze information requirements for each data element. Reconciling process is the final step to consolidate the defined and analyzed data inventory into a data set through the process of reconciliation This involves the agreement to use one data element name with a common definition and \(or\mon coding, and a standard message reconciled with the                     Figure 3. Overall concepts of the project Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


international standards of UN/CEFACT CCTS.  The results of these processes is a common data standardized set from various data models In addition to CCTS it provides a way to identify and capture and maximize the re-use of business information to support and enhance information interoperability across multiple business situations [23  The key concept of CCTS focuses on two parts: core  components \(CC\d business information entities BIE\ building block for the creation of a semantically correct and meaningful information exchange package. BIE is a piece of business data or a group of pieces of business data with a unique Business  Semantic definition [23 It is d e riv e d f r o m  CC. I n T H  e-GIF, it adopts XML NDR to describe and specify the rules and guidelines when developing XML schemas based on information models developed in accordance with the CCTS. The result builds XML schema standards for interoperability in data exchanges  TH e-GIF without IPIS approach \(Approach 1  As shown in figure 3, in order to build a common data standardized set and XML schema standard, it requires many data owners, data modelers and system analysts. The data owners extensively need to participant in activities based on the four processes in recommendation 34. Several meetings are essential to share, to analyze, to discuss and to reconcile the differences of their data models. It is time-consuming to reach agreement on common standards. Also, the data modelers and system analysts who have high skills and much experience are required  TH e-GIF with IPIS approach \(Approach 2  To diminish the demands on the officers time and skills, we incorporated the IPIS tool in this project. The IPIS tool development was partially divided into two phases. The pilot project developed the IPIS tool to automatically support in data standardization, XML schema standardization/development, and web service implementing modules generator. This result will aid in information or semantic interoperability level. In future, we plan to develop the IPIS tool to more automatically assist in performing the four processes in recommendation 34 \(see figure 4  4  2 Project Tool Development   This section illustrates how we design and develop the IPIS tool in our pilot project. Firstly, we design the tool development architecture following the MDTD described in section 3.2. Figure 4 presents the project tool development architecture based on MDTD. As shown in figure 3, the IPIS tool in this project is developed to support in standardizing data following CCTS and in developing XML schema standard following XML NDR. The tool is also designed to automatically generate web services implementing modules such as SOAP call and service. We design the IRIM as interoperability requirements serving semantic interoperability level. In this project, the IRIM is an integration model of requirements derived from data modeling, XML schema designing and developing and web services developing. In addition to interoperability requirements analysis, the IRIM drives five possible IRSMs. They are IRSM 1 core components design IRSM 2 core components library, IRSM 3 business information entities \(BIEs\, IRSM 4 XML schema standards and IRSM 5 Web Services components                         Figure 4. The project tool development architecture  For the IPIS tool design and implementation, seven software modules \(SMs\designed according to the generated IRSMs. They include: SM 1 CC designing Thai\M 2 CC design \(English\, SM 3 Context designing, SM 4 Code list managing, SM 5 BIEs designing, SM 6 XML schema generator and SM 7  Web services developing  In the CC design module the system allows users to propose their required data model in Thai language. In CC English module, Thai data names are translated to English. In the context design module users can add their required contexts. In Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


 the code list manage module users can add and edit code lists  In the BIE design module  users can design the required data model based on selected core components and contexts. In the XML schema generation module users can get a XML schema for a given BIE. In the web services developing module users can obtain various source programs for web service components. The IPIS tool was developed using java technology and was implemented as web based application. Figure 5 shows a model of some software modules according with CC design, BIE design and XML schema generating.  The model is based on UN/CEFACT CCTS and XML NDR   Figure 5. A model of some software modules in the project  4.3 Tool Results  In the project, the IPIS tool automatically generates various kinds of sample programs and scripts. These sample programs and scripts can be used in the interoperability implementation process. They include an XML document manipulation java program, a web service java program, a web service client program using SOAP, an XML digital signature java program an XML encryption/decryption java program, WSDL specification files, database generation SQL scripts for data storage, and java server page program for managing and manipulating data. Government offices can use this prototype application as a pilot software development.  The prototype software allows sending and receiving by using web services technology Figure 6 illustrates a sample XML document which automatically generated based on XML schema. Figure 7 shows the screen shot of a generated sample java program. This generated program is a sample java program for XML document building The tool can be used by various participants in the interoperability development process. It assists in building and managing a core component library or dictionary. It also supports controlling, publishing validating a version control of core component dictionary and XML schema standards  It enables users  from different agencies to collaborate and build a set of common core components. This support tool can automatically generate a core component library, and context specific business information entities. It can generate a sample XML document, sample XML generator source programs with DOM API, and sample source programs for building web services with SOAP and SAAJ API. These capabilities help agencies to easily develop a pilot interoperable project. These capabilities facilitate electronic interoperability development in e-Governme In f u tu re w e pla n  to develop the extended IPIS tool to fully support in data capturing, defining, analyzing and reconciling in recommendation 34     Figure 6.  A sample of XML document which automatically generated based on XML schema      Figure 7. A screen shot of generated sample java program Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


Table 1:  A list of evaluation elements 5. IPIS Approach: Evaluation   This section presents the evaluation of our approach. The evaluation model was designed based on the TH e-GIF project purposes. We compare the evaluated results between the TH e-GIF approach with and without IPIS.  It shows the benefits of using IPIS for electronic government interoperability  5.1 Evaluation Methodology  In order to evaluate our approach, we design the evaluation methodology to compare two approaches 1.\H e-GIF without IPIS and 2.\H e-GIF with IPIS First of all, we define Evaluation Factors \(EF\nd Evaluation Elements \(EE\ requirements. The requirements in the methodology focused on IRSMs proposed in section 4.2. They include IRSM 1 core components design, IRSM 2 core components library IRSM 3 business information entities \(BIEs\rary IRSM 4 XML schema standards and IRSM 5 web services components.  The EFs are concerned about five factors: EF 1 Skill needed, EF 2 Experience needed EF 3 Time and EF 4 Cost. In addition to EFs, we design four EEs for each EF and set a value of evaluation called Evaluation Value \(EV The EV is a number of 1, 2, or 3. The estimate of EV of is defined as follows    and the estimate of of is defined as follows     Table 1 shows a list of evaluation elements designed according to IRSMs  5.2 Evaluation Model and Results  We designed an evaluation model to evaluate two approaches. Figure 8 shows an evaluation model between two approaches. In the former project government officers had to design core components and to develop CC library, BIE library and XML schemas under TH e-GIF without IPIS. However, in this project, over 200 officers from more 100 agencies used the IPIS tool to support in the designing and developing. Among the 200 officers, more than half of them have no skills and/or no experiences of guidelines, standards, techniques and policies in TH eGIF, eight days of training was organized to teach the concepts of CCTS and XML NDR. Attendees built their own BIE XML document and experimented   IRSM EF EE EV IRSM 1           EF 1     EE 1 CC designing EE 2 CC naming rule EE 3 CCTS structuring EE 4 CC dic. entry name 3:High 2:Medium 1:Low  EF 2     EE 1 CC dic. entry name EE 2 CC designing EE 3 CCTS structuring EE 4 CC naming rule 3:High 2:Medium 1:Low  EF 3  EF 4    EE 1 Training time/cost EE 2 Developing time/cost EE 3 Designing time/cost EE 4 Analyzing time/cost 3:Long/High 2:Medium 1:Short/Low  IRSM 2           EF 1     EE 1 CC library designing EE 2 CC discovery EE 3 CC business term EE 4 CC catalogue 3:High 2:Medium 1:Low  EF 2     EE 1 CC discovery EE 2 CC library designing EE 3 CC business term EE 4 CC catalogue 3:High 2:Medium 1:Low  EF 3  EF 4    EE 1 Training time/cost EE 2 Developing time/cost EE 3 Designing time/cost EE 4 Analyzing time/cost 3:Long/High 2:Medium 1:Short/Low  IRSM 3           EF 1     EE 1 BIE library designing EE 2 BIE reusability EE 3 Context categories EE 4 BIE rules 3:High 2:Medium 1:Low  EF 2     EE 1 BIE rules EE 2 Context categories EE 3 BIE library designing EE 4 BIE reusability 3:High 2:Medium 1:Low  EF 3  EF 4    EE 1 Training time/cost EE 2 Developing time/cost EE 3 Designing time/cost EE 4 Analyzing time/cost 3:Long/High 2:Medium 1:Short/Low  IRSM 4           EF 1     EE 1 XML schema design EE 2 XML NDR EE 3 Namespace schema EE 4 Relationship to CCTS 3:High 2:Medium 1:Low  EF 2     EE 1 XML schema design EE 2 Namespace schema EE 3 Relationship to CCTS EE 4 XML NDR 3:High 2:Medium 1:Low  EF 3  EF 4    EE 1 Training time/cost EE 2 Developing time/cost EE 3 Designing time/cost EE 4 Analyzing time/cost 3:Long/High 2:Medium 1:Short/Low  IRSM 5    EF 1     EE 1 SOAP, Java, WDSL EE 2 Web services concept EE 3 SOA EE 4 UUDI, PKI 3:High 2:Medium 1:Low  EF 2     EE 1 Web services concept EE 2 SOA EE 3 SOAP, Java, WDSL EE 4 UUDI, PKI 3:High 2:Medium 1:Low  EF 3  EF 4   EE 1 Training time/cost EE 2 Developing time/cost EE 3 Designing time/cost EE 4 Analyzing time/cost 3:Long/High 2:Medium 1:Short/Low  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


 Table 2: The results of a com p arison between two a pp roaches with developing software for data exchange. They also learned about web services, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI From these components, the IPIS tool assists them to automatically generate core component libraries context specific business information entities and XML documents. It can also automatically produce some source programs with DOM API and source programs for building web services with SOAP and SAAJ API These capabilities help agencies to easily develop a pilot interoperable project and thus facilitate electronic interoperability development in e-Government The evaluation methodology was applied in the model to significantly illustrate the differences Focusing on 80 EEs shown in table 1, the EV of each EE was evaluated by evaluators.  To compare the approaches, the estimate of EV with respect to EFs was calculated. Table 2 shows th e results of our evaluation model The results show that the approach using the IPIS tool can assist the pilot interoperability project to achieve objectives more easily and economically. The time spent in the project approximately becomes     shorter \(65%\ The cost estimate also was reduced about 53%. One of the main causes of failure in a government interoperability project is lack of experiences and skills [20 Th e resu lt also s h o w s t h at  by using the support tool, the officers need less experience and skills to achieve the desired interoperability requirements  6. Conclusions  This paper proposes a practical approach to implementing electronic government interoperability The approach considers a pplying an Interoperability Practical Implementation Support IPIS\ool to an eGIF approach.  Normally, e-GIFs set out the policies standards, guidelines an d technical structure  In fact only following the suggested standards, policies and contexts guideline in e-GIFs is insufficient. Our literature review shows that many governments experience obstacles and failures in applying e-GIFs to their interoperability projects Lack of experience and                Figure 8. An evaluation model between two approaches    skills in e-GIF implementation is a significant contributor to these failures. To fill the gap, in this paper, we designed and developed the IPIS tool to support a TH e-GIF project We then evaluated the results of our approach and compared it with the former e-GIF approach. The results indicate that applying the IPIS tool can assist the interoperability project to achieve the objectives more easily and economically. The time spent in the project also becomes shorter. The result furthermore reveals that the successful project needs less experience and skills by using the IPIS tool. Thi s paper demonstrates that a tool such as IPIS provides much-needed practical approach to successfully implementing the interoperability that is at the heart of e-GIF standards   Skill needed  Experience needed Time  Cost   Approach 1 Approach 2 Diff Approach 1 Approach 2 Diff Approach 1 Approach 2 Diff Approach 1 Approach 2 Diff IRSM 1  3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.25 1.75 3.00 1.25 1.75 IRSM 2  2.75 1.25 1.50 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.25 1.75 IRSM 3  3.00 1.25 1.75 2.75 1.25 1.50 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.50 1.50 IRSM 4  3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.50 1.50 IRSM 5  3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.25 1.75 3.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 1.50 1.50  2.95 1.10 1.85 2.95 1.10 1.85 3.00 1.05 1.95 3.00 1.40 1.60  98 36 62 98 36 62 100 35 65 100 47 53 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


7. Acknowledgements   We thank Thammasat University for providing great information and research resources for this project. We also express many thanks to Thai Ministry of Information and Communication Technology for providing funding support of the project   8. References  1  Australia Electronic Government Interoperability Framework http://www.egov.wa.gov.au/index.cfm?event=p oliciesEgif  2  Brazil   Electronic   Government     Interoperability Framework http://www.apdip.net/projects/gif/country/BRGIF.pdf   B Ot j acqu e s  P  Hi t zel b e rger an d F  F e l t z   Interoperability of E-Government Information Systems Issue of Identification and Data Sharing Journal of Management Information Systems, Spring 2007, Vol. 23, No 4, pp.29-51  4 C   Va s s ila k i s  G   L e poura s S R ouv a s a nd P. G e org i a d is   A Framework for Managing the Lifecycle of Transactional e-Government Services Telematics and Informatics Volume 20, November 2003, pp.315-329   Co re Co m p on en t s S p eci f i c a t i o n T ech n i qu es \(CCT S    http://www.unece.org/cefact/codesfortrade/codes_index.htm ccl  6 De nm a r k Ele c t ronic G o v e rn m e nt Inte r o p e r a b ility  Framework. http://standarder.oio.dk/English  7 Ele c t ronic G o v e rnm e n t Inte rope ra bility Fra m e w ork   version 6.1\http://www.govtalk.gov.uk/schemasstandards egif_document.asp?docnum=949  8 Em m a nue l C. L a lla na  e-Government Interoperability  United Nations Development Programme, e-Primers for the Information Economy, Society and Polity, pp.1-18  9 Em m a nue l C. L a lla na  Guide: e-Government Interoperability United Nations Development Programme ISBN: 978-974-13-1616-8  10  European Interoperability Framework for PanEuropean e-Government Services  http://www.comptia.org/issues/docs/interopwhitepaper0204.p df  11  Germanyês Standards and Architecture for eGovernment Applications \(SAGA  http://www.epractice.eu/files/media/media_775.pdf  12  Ha ns J Sc h o ll  Interoperability in e-Government More than Just Smart Middle ware IEEE, Proceeding of HICSS 2005  1 A  M a rt i n ez  P  Bel t r an  J A  M a rt i n ez an d R S a n Segundo Model for Interoperability Evaluation in eGovernment Services FORMATEX 2006  1 J o hn B   International Technical Standards for eGovernment Electronic Journal of e-Government, Volume 2, year 2004, pp.75-80  15 J o h n D Br uc e T  P  D a v i d R., Elit ot C a n d D a v i d RR Interoperability Strategy Concepts, Challenges and Recommendations April 3, 2003  16  New Zealand E-government Interoperability Framework Version 3.0 March 2006 http://www.e.govt.nz/standards/e-gif/e-gif-v-3/e-gif-v-3total.pdf  17 O b je c t Ma na g e m e nt G r o up O MG    MDA Guide Version 1.0.1 Object Management Group/omg/2003-06-01 June 12, 2003  18  P  L i a n g  K. He B. L i a nd J. L i u The Interoperability between Different e-Business Specifications IEEE Computer society, Proceedings of ITCC 05, 2005  1 S  Bo on m ee  A  S aeko w an d C Boo n m ee  A Group Collaboration Support System to Assist Building and Managing National Core Component Dictionary and XML Schema Standards ECEG 2008  20  Standards, Policies and Guidelines - Malaysian Government Interoperability Framework Version 1.0  http://www.mampu.gov.my/mampu/bm/program/ICT/ISPlan ispdoc/Interoperability%20Framework.pdf  21 T  A  P a rdo, H  J  Sc holl  Walking Atop the Cliffs Avoid Failure and Reducing Risk in Large Scale EGovernment Projects, Proceeding of the 35 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences-2002, IEEE Computer Society  2 T L D i nh a n d T H  Le   Toward an Approach for Modeling Interoperability of Information Systems IEEE Research, Innovation and Vision for the Future, March 5 2007, pp.22-28  23 U N  CEFA CT Core Com pone nts T e c hnic a l  Specification, Part 8 of the ebXML Framework, Version 2.01, Retrieved January 25, 2007 from http://www.unece.org/cefact/ebxml/CCTS_V2-01_Final.pdf   2 U N  CEFA CT  UN/CEFACT Modeling Methodology UMM\ User Guide UN/CEFACT/TMG/N093, 2003  25 UN/CEFA CT  Recommendation 34 Data Simplification and Standardization for International Trade Working DraftVersion 6.0, May 21, 2008 2 UN/CE F A CT  XML Naming and Design Rules \(XML NDR Version 2.0, February 17, 2006   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


Impact on automation layout in a cement plant Next picture shows a generic control system layout as used at HeidelbergCement with logical segregation of production stages and an \223automation backbone\224 which connects subordinate control systems  Each control system consists of a redundant set of servers for failsafe reasons   Picture 5 Standard PCS layout  Process control systems are typically installations which are subject to evolution rather than to revolution Most cement plants would never do a \223one-shot replacement\224 of an installed system \(or version\ by another but proceed in steps  Logically, the approach towards virtualization is logically very similar to PCS upgrades The reason for the reference plant which introduced Virtualization Technology in 2008 for online control purposes were hardware failures and obsolete hardware for Windows-NT-based-CEMAT-V4-control systems The first machine to be virtualized was not \223mission critical\224 but represented in principle the entire functionality of CEMAT V4. It was an engineering station which was set up as a combined \223server-clientengineering station\224  Almost at the same time, this plant introduced a Process Data Acquisition System \(Management Information System\. According to the vendor\222s specification, the whole system should be installed on 5 different computers \(Com-Server, OPC Server, Database Server,\205\ough it was obvious that it could be done on fewer machines the plant decided to follow the vendor\222s specification because of warranty issues. However, setting up 5 machines for a relatively unimportant job was considered to be excessive and as the virtualization platform was availabl e we utilized it for the PDAS installation  Due to the positive experience after step one, it was decided, to migrate also one PCS Server of the redundant server-set into a VM and install it to a host. The process control system software runs untouched on both machines and realizes failover between a physical and a virtual machine  The decisive steps at our pilot plant were also done at a relatively early point in time \(immediately after the tests with the engineering station were completed\ September 2008  The infrastructure software layer was installed \226although we could not use it extensively- almost at the very beginning, i.e. with the first host, in order to give our staff the opportunity to become familiarized with this new \(to automation people\y 


  Picture 6 PCS layout with virtual infrastructure and SAN  The second very important step was the installation and commissioning of a Storage Area Network SAN\, because only a network storage enables to make use of virtualization infrastructure features such as failover. This is due to the fact that virtual machine disk files may not exist on a certain host, as in case of failure it would not be accessible and available any longer to be restarted on a different physical host  SANs are either based on Fibre Channel or iSCSI Technology. The idea of both technologies is to extend the \(usually\nal data lines between hard disk controllers and hard-disks to external devices Fibre Channel has been a proven technology for this type application for years. It has a slightly better performance, but is more expensive than iSCSI iSCSI stands for Internet Small Computer System Interface It  means encapsulation  of the SCSI protocol within TCP/IP packages. Today iSCSI delivers sufficient performance to build up SANs for process automation purposes at a cement works  In such an arrangement, from a failure point of view, the SAN is the most critical peace of hardware in virtualized computer architecture  Although SANs are built up internally fail safe \(redundant power supply, NICs, hard disk controllers,\205 and data sheets give impressive figures for availability, any concept for process control purposes should allow for setting up auto-synchronizing SANs at different spots  User interface VMs running on a host are comparable to applications running on a Terminal Server. In other words, VMs obviously need input and output devices to be handled. Fat clients \(PC\222s\o good choice if it is intended to simplify the maintenance of the process control system hardware. Moreover, they are costly and sometimes prone to error Another step forward -with limited risk only- was to replace some operator stations of a segment by Thin Clients without hard disk The connection between thin client and VM is either done by vendor specific client software, RDP or VNC  Obstacles Minor issues may occur while transferring physical control systems into virtual ones Most of the problems the reference plant encountered had to do with the hardware interfaces such as serial and parallel ports and multi-media features  


Unresolved points \(minor\are to date realizing failover with legacy interfaces and sound output with Windows NT guests   CONCLUSION  Virtualization is no new but a revitalized technol ogy. First virtualization solutions \(purely based on software\ell as computer emulation deliver poor results in terms of performance  Hardware supported virtualization and pure software virtualization are totally different approaches  Virtualization today is most powerful when it combines the strengths of the different technologies. CPU demanding applications are wasting less performance than memory-intense application. \(TLB miss costs  VMware ESX is a good example of this. ESX uses Para-virtualized drivers for the most critical I/O components \(but not for the CPU\, emulation for the le ss important I/O and Binary Translation in order to avoid the high "trap and emulate" performance penalty. In this way, virtualized applications perform quite well, in some cases almost as if th ere were no extra VMM layer involved  The user benefit of virtualization is manifold. Virtualization 225  decouples software from hardware \(provides availability for \223legacy platforms\224, enables software in a cloud 225  utilizes installed hardware more efficient 225  safes space, energy, and invest cost 225  eases system administration extensively  225  but requires additional know-how of system administrators  At this point in time we can say that virtualization has met all of our expectations and offered \226in particular with respect to system administration- even more. The number of plants that started using Virtualization is growing  The process automation staff is still on a learning curve with virtualization in order to take maximum benefit of this technology  Unexploited potential is likely to be found in the field of setting up systems, handling of back-ups and disaster recovery procedures     REFERENCES  200  K. Lawton, Running muliple operating systems concurrently on an IA32 PC using virtualization techniques,http://plex86.org/research/paper.txt 200 www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/001029.html 200 it.anandtech.com 200 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_virtualization 200  Virtualization for dummies SUN and AMD special edition 200 www.intel.com/technology/virtualizatio n/technology.htm?iid=tech_vt+tech 200  2008 Automation Summit - ID#: 1474 - Dow Chemical R&D\222s Global Rollout of PCS7\256 Using VMWare\256, Chicago    200 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ring_\(computer_security 


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





