  1 Use of Evolutionary Computation for Isolating Surface Emissions from Orbit Michael A. Mischna, Seungwon Lee, Mark Allen and Richard J. Terrile Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Califor nia Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Dr., M/S 183-401, Pasadena, CA 91109-8099 818-393-4775 michael.a.mischna@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract 227High precision targeting of localized sources of atmospheric species outgasse d from planetary surfaces remains an important goal in planetary science, but one that largely remains beyond present-day observational capabilities. For disequilibrium trace species, the detectable signature of a gas in the atmosphere often is confined to a small region \(order 10-100\222s km Identifying a plume source is challenging since the observed 
plume is likely many times la rger than the surface source itself. Limited spatial coverage of the surface also may preclude direct detections of the plume surface source while the large fields of view of present-day orbital instruments tend to \221blur\222 small-scale signals. To address these issues, we have deve loped a novel technique for determining the surface location of a trace gas emission source in a planetary atmosphere with an uncertainty of a few tens of km using present-day direct observational capabilities in concert with high-performance numerical modeling of atmospheric dynamics 1,2  This paper shows how evolutionary computational models ECMs\can be employed in the search for surface sources of trace gas plumes in the atmosphere of Mars. We present 
the specific approach taken in linking an ECM to a simple idealized plume model, and gauge the overall ability of this system to return estimates of a plume source location over several generations of the model\222s execution. This technique can isolate trace gas source locations with orders of magnitude greater effi ciency than brute-force approaches, making identifica tion of such sources, even with limited observational data, a plausible endeavor T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION AND M OTIVATION 1  2  O 
BJECTIVE A ND A PPROACH 2  3  M ODELING F RAMEWORK 3  4  R ESULTS 8  5  F UTURE P LANS 11  6  C ONCLUSIONS 11  7 
 A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS 12  R EFERENCES 12  B IOGRAPHY 13  1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1524, Version 3, Updated January 8, 2009 1  I NTRODUCTION AND M OTIVATION  For most objects in the solar system, observation from orbit still remains the best means of studying active surface 
processes that are expressed in the atmosphere. A host of recent discoveries from the Mars Express, Galileo and Cassini spacecraft, among others, have shown that atmospheric plumes can be observed either directly \(e.g water vapor jets on Enceladus\ndirectly through their byproducts \(e.g. methane on Mars\ars, in particular provides an excellent example of how recent discoveries of 221active\222 behavior at the surf ace have triggered a whole new paradigm in planetary exploration and spacecraft design, as these behaviors introduce the possibility that Mars is not simply a passive member of th e planetary family, but rather one which is presently, and c ontinually, evolving. Because of the heightened interest in the detection of trace gases in the martian atmosphere, we have selected Mars as the model planet on which we demonstrate our method 
The recent putative discoveries of methane in the martian atmo have i gni t e d a debat e  over whet her M a rs is presently \221alive\222. Detections of methane have been made at the parts per billion \(ppb limits of present-day observational capabilities. Coarse spatial variability in the methane signal has been tentatively reporte  al t hough such resul t s  rem a i n  unconfi rm e d and it is presently unclear from where the source or sources of the methane signals may originate. The present-day oxidizing atmosphere of Mars \(95% CO 2 udes the long-term stability of methane \(a reduced form of carbon\in the atmosphere, so it must be presently outgassed if a signal is being detected 
Source locations of methane, or of any disequilibrated species of sufficient abundance on Mars should be readily detectible, yet no distinct surface sources have been unequivocally identified. This suggests that, if present, such trace gas source\(s\nd/or localized as \221point\222 sources on the order of tens of kilometers or smaller in size below the nominal resolution of present-day orbiting instruments. Examples of these types of source features include volcanic vents, cracks or caldera where gas 221plumes\222 can originate from within the martian crust. The small sizes of these features present challenges for their remote detection\227even if directly observed, the observational \221footprint\222 of an orbiting instrument may be 
 


  2 too large to uniquely isolate a small source location. The surface coverage presently provided by instruments designed to make trace gas detections also may be limited in both space and time, resulting in only a small chance that any one such feature will be observed directly from orbit Additionally, the unknown mechanism by which these source locations inject a trace species into the atmosphere may result in irregular, \221pulsed\222 injections over time, further reducing the chance that an active plume will be detected at its origin. Because of the conflicting practicalities of highresolution observations and regul ar global coverage, orbital detection of trace gas species in the martian atmosphere remains a challenging goal for the NASA Mars Exploration Program  Here, we present a novel technique, demonstrated using idealized plume models, for isolating the source locations of small-scale surface plumes from or bit with an un certainty of a few tens of km \(within the 20-40 km search range of planned future Mars surface rovers observational capabilities. Additionally, we characterize the precision to which these ideali zed surface point sources can be isolated. Such precision is strongly dependent upon the atmospheric lifetime of the constituent, the structure of the plume emission, and the density of observations, but also on the specific characteristics of the observing instrument and the surface coverage obtained While the detection of methane on Mars is the driving force behind this research this approach can be equally applied to any planet, and to gas or aerosol without distinction. Applying the present method, surface regions of the highest interest as landing sites can be identified and targeted from orbit for future missions 2  O BJECTIVE A ND A PPROACH  Our objective is to demonstrate the feasibility of using evolutionary computational algorithms as a means of analyzing a set of observations to isolate the source location of trace gas plumes to within a few tens of kilometers with a minimum of computational effort. To achieve this objective we have established a series of tests to demonstrate the process and quantify potential sources of error in our analysis. These sources of error arise from both the numerical models employed as well as the limitations of the instruments used to make the atmospheric observations and uncertainties in the knowledge of the environmental state There are two steps necessary to illustrate this evolutionary computational approach in the absence of real observational measurements 1  Generation of a synthetic observation set from an idealized plume shape 2  Creation of a test plume model \(TPM estimates of the evolutionary computational model ECM\ional set derived from the test plume is compared to the synthetic observations produced in step 1 Because of a lack of direct orbital observations of trace gas plumes in the martian atmosphere, the generation of synthetic plume observations \(step #1\s designed to reproduce the type of measurements that would otherwise be taken by a spacecraft as it flies over \(or through\an atmospheric plume. A sequence of observations is taken along the spacecraft trajectory each centered at a different latitude/longitude, and cove ring a surface region \(the surface \221footprint\222\is uni quely dependent on the design of the observing instrument The simulated spacecraft orbit used in this study has a high inclination \(74 
260 th a period of two hours \(7,200 s\ith Mars having a rotational period of 88,775 s, this gives 12.3 spacecraft orbits per martian day, putting consecutive orbits ~30 260 apart in longitude. Our simulated instrument is a generic atmospheric limb sounder, operating on a 50% duty cycle, 3 seconds on, 3 seconds off, resulting in an along-track observing footprint of ~10 km, a nominal cross-track footprint of 200 km, and generating ~14,800 observations per martian day Accurately simulating a plume\222s spatial distribution is not a trivial task, as the structure of a plume at any given time is driven not only by the prevailing atmospheric dynamics at the source location, but also the plume composition strength, surrounding topography, etc. General circulation models \(GCMs\artian atmosphere are available which can provide high fidelity representations of atmospheric motions, and can generate reasonable reproductions of a plume\222s evolution over time. However simpler approaches, which are more appropriate for this initial demonstration of the ECM, can be used to simulate the plume distribution. It is these simplified approaches that we outline here, reserving more complex GCM simulations for later studies We have chosen to create simulated plumes out of simple time-invariant \(i.e. steady state analytic functions that are easy to calculate and to visua lize. In steady state, these plumes have assumed consta nt emission and decay rates that are equivalent, and typical of a plume that has been emitting for an extended period of time.  \(In future tests plumes can be made time varying, but this is not considered here state assumption, observations of these plumes depend only upon the location of the spacecraft relative to the plume and not on the time of the observation; hence, multiple orbits will enhance spatial coverage of the static plume Because of our interest in identifying small-scale feat ures, we can adjust the parameters of the analytic function to produce a very localized \(i.e. \221small\222\ume feature. Depending on the design of a specific test, we may additionally vary any one of a number of parameters in order to generate a plume that meets our specific model requirements 
 


 
 
 
  3 With an idealized plume and spacecraft orbit id entified, we can produce a sequence of observations by flying through this synthetic plume. The plume, by its very nature \(i.e influenced by diffusion and dispersion from prevailing winds\position, which is substantially smaller than the observable plume itself. The observations further blur the apparent location of the plume source location due to the finite size of the observation footprint. Figure 1 illustrates this effect for three different periods of observation of the plume found in the lower right panel \(\221Truth\222\ith the retrieved signal averaged across a 200 x 10 km swath, it is not abundantly clear where the source location of the plume is in any of the three cases With one day of coverage \(Fi gure 1, upper left only five distinct observations that even suggest the presence of a plume. We may be able to make an educated guess as to the plume center from this limited sample, but it is by no means certain that such a guess will be even remotely correct.  Even as we increase the amount of surface coverage by extending our observation campaign to 100 days, the central source point may still be difficult to locate to within 10-20 km \(especially if the source were not as symmetric and well-defined as it is in this idealized case Because we have chosen our plum e to be in steady state, we can be certain that the plum e source is located somewhere within the detection region, but there is very little else the observations, and our intuition, can tell us In order to identify the surf ace source with any precision we need some means of simulating the type of atmospheric behavior that would reproduce the wind dispersion and diffusion processes implicit in the observed measurements In other words, the present approach requires us to make an a priori guess of the shape of the underlying \(actual, or 221Truth\222\ume, uninfluenced by the \221defocusing\222 effect of the observation footprint.  This is done via creation of a 221test\222 plume. In the next section, we discuss in more detail how we choose the structure of the plume used to generate the observations as well as both the TPM and ECM used in this study 3  M ODELING F RAMEWORK  Generating Idealized Observations In this study we will consider two different plume shapes\227 a simple symmetric, Gaussian plume, and a second plume having a more complex, zonally asymmetric Gaussian shape. The Gaussian plume shape follows the function 
 
x y 
x y 
1 
y 
212 
exp 
 
 
0  2 0  2 2 2 
2 2 2 
 
y y 
0  2 0  2 2 2 1 2  
 
 
x y 
C 
 
 002  002  
   
212 212 
x 
212 
212 212 
exp 
 002    1 where T  x  y s the plume strength at latitude/longitude position x  y  x 0 and y 0 are the longitude and latitude of the plume center and 
exp  
212 
x x y 
x 
 
          2 where prior values are the same as Eq. 1 x 1 and y 1 are the center location of the elliptical plume, and C is a factor representing the width-to-height ratio of the elliptical plume. In this study we have set C 5 x 1  x 0 1 and y 1  y 0 0 the elliptical portion of the plume is thus offset one degree to the east of the circular plume, and the elliptical \221tail\222 is five times broader in longitude than latitude\s zonally asymmetric plume, as with its circular counterpart, has a normalized peak value at \(0 
 
x C 
002 is the standard deviation of the Gaussian in degrees\In all cases, unless noted, we have set 002 0.5 260  x 0 0 260 and y 0 0 260 The plume generated by Eq. 1, as seen from orbit, is shown contoured in Figure 2a \(an enlarged version of the \221Truth\222 plume in Figure 1\s normalized such that the strength is unity at the plume center For the zonally asymmetric plume \(Figure 2b developed a compound plume shape with a zonally asymmetric tail designed to represent the type of downwind pattern that might be the result, after several days, of steady prevailing winds in the martian atmosphere. The plume is composed of the sum of Eq. 1 and an elliptical plume also following a Gaussian shape 260 0 260  both Eqns. 1 and 2 is initially evaluated on a uniform global grid of 1440 \(longitude\\(l atitude a gridded resolution of 0.25 260 x0.25 260 or about 15 km at the martian equator Spacecraft observations are, of course, not expected to fall on the 0.25 260 x 0.25 260 grid of our analytic solution\227indeed they are dictated by the orbital geometry of the spacecraft The strength of the test plum e at each of the previously determined observation points is therefore calculated by bilinear interpolation among the four grid points surrounding the observation position. The error introduced by the interpolation process is generally negligible. While an observation is said to be \221centered\222 on a specific latitude/longitude pair, on this high-resolution grid, the observation footprint spans mu ltiple gridpoints, hence the magnitude of an individual observation is actually averaged across the total number of gridpoints \(and fractions thereof that are spanned by the observation footprint. Gridding of the idealized plume \(rather th an specifically calculating the plume strength at the observation location\ facilitates this averaging process. Interpolation and averaging is applied at each of the observation locations. The final product of this process is a table of observation locations and the corresponding measurements at these locations Creating the Test Plume Model \(TPM The next step is to compare the observations of a test plume centered on a selected latitude/longitude pair with the 221actual\222 observations. As stated previously, for simplicity 
 
y 
212 
T T 
212 
 


2 
test n 
  4 we have chosen to employ the same analytic function for the test plume as was used to generate the observations Through implementation of the ECM discussed in the next subsection, a series of \221guesses\222 is made of the plume center x 0 and y 0 We then perform a \221fly through\222 of each of these test plumes, following the same orbital pattern as for the actual observations. This allows us to perform a simple least-squares fit of each test plume to the actual observations, according to 
n 3 for all n observations. A better match between the test plume measurements and actual observations produces a lower value of f with f 0 for a perfect match   Figure 1 Comparison of spacecraft coverage of circular plum e \(lower right 10 days and 100 days of observations.  As length of time increases, coverage becomes more complete, but for all panels, the true plume remains defocused\227a consequence of the observation footprint size  The Evolutionary Computation Model An evolutionary computational model and the underlying genetic algorithms \(GAs\prise the core, innovative approach to this plume source location method. The basic principles behind ECMs and GAs have been detailed el but we can benefi t from a fresh di scussi on of the ECM within the framework of this new planetary application. As its name suggests, the ECM applies principles that underlie evolutionary behavior to problems that require determination of an optimal or \221best-fit\222 solution, given a series of constraining parameters. As such the ECM is a generic algorithm that can be applied to many 
212 
f 
 
actual n 
 


  5 different problems that seek an optimized solution Essentially, here, our TPM becomes a customized module that gets \221bolted onto\222 the ECM. The constraining parameters, or \221genes\222, define, in the present study, the latitude and longitude of the plume source location Changes in these two parameters \(the genotype\ade in the TPM, with each change yielding a different model result or phenotype to extend the analogy further The proper selection of genes in the test plume model will provide the best fit to the actual observations So where does the \221evolutionary 222 aspect of the ECM come into play? Without any knowledge of the location of the plume source, the ECM makes an initial set of arbitrary   Figure 2  a Contour map of a simple Gaussian plume defined in Equation 1.  Maximum plume strength is 1.0 b Contour map of the zonally asymmetric Gaussian plume defi ned in Equation 2. Maximum plume strength is 1.0  guesses as to the latitude and longitude of the source location. Alternatively, the ECM may be \221seeded\222 in areas where optimal solutions are likely to be found \(in a situation where there is some a priori knowledge of the system\o speed up the convergence proce ss.  Each of these initial guesses is then sequentially used to generate a test plume centered at a latitude/longitude, following the details in the previous subsection. The fitness function, or goodness-of-fit parameter f for each run in the set is calculated according to Eq. 3,. Those individual runs with the best fits are used together, to influence the next set \(or \221generation\222\of latitude/longitude guesses by the ECM. The ECM thus mimics nature\222s \221Survival of the Fittest\222 approach to evolution. In each subsequent generation of the process only the strongest guesses \(i.e., those with the best genes\227 the best fit\wed to carry their genotype forward to help populate the next generati on. This next generation will consist primarily of guesses that resemble the genotype of the parents in some way \(i.e., they will have latitudes and longitudes that are \221blends\222 of the best-fit parents As with genetic evolution, mu tations and other aberrations do occasionally occur. These manifest themselves in different ways in the ECM. Mutations have no similarity to the parents, and hence a mutated guess from the ECM will have seemingly arbitrary values for latitude and longitude Mutations serve to inject diversity into the population and increase the likelihood that the best-fit solution is truly a global best fit. In the absence of genetic mutations, over time, subsequent generations look increasingly identical to previous ones. Mutations prevent premature convergence on incorrect solutions by maintaining a large diversity in the population. The evolutionary process might converge on an incorrect solution \(i.e., a local best-fit, as with more 
 


  6 221greedy\222 minimization algorithms if there is no means of diversifying the population of la titude/longitude guesses.  In our idealized scenario, we have a unimodal fitness landscape, and thus our local best fit will be the global best fit; however, this will not be the case for more complex situations, having multimodal landscapes.  Such scenarios are to be expected for impl ementations that are more realistic Substitutions are another way of injecting diversity into the gene pool. With substitution, va lues for individual genes are swapped. In the present scenario this is akin to changing a latitude value while fixing longitude, or vice versa. Lastly a small fraction of guesses by the ECM are \221clones\222 of the parent, having identical genetic structure. The combination of these four processes \(crossover, mutation, substitution and cloning\ work together to efficiently identify the optimal genotype while eliminating weaker genetic structures.  The ECM design allo ws the user to select the ratio of guesses that are produced via crossover vs. other processes Some of these genetic processes can be seen operating in Figure 3, which shows a typical example of the ECM  Figure 3 Location of 100 plume source location guesses in each of four different generations spacecraft observations of the circular analytical plume with 0% noi se is the reference case; crossover/mutation is 50/50 [see text and Fi   Each cross represents a single guess. Guesses are essentially random in Generation 1, but begin to converge on a solution by Generation 5.  Convergence continues thr ough Generation 10, and by Ge neration 20, most guesses are within a fraction of a degree of the correct solution  behavior over several genera tions \(spacecraft observations of the circular analytical plum e with 0% noise are assumed In each generation of this example, the ECM makes 100 guesses of the plume center location, with a 50/50 ratio of genetic crossover to the other processes. Each of the crosses in Figure 3 represents the location of a single guess \(of the center of an individual test plume\nce we know the region in which our steady state plume is located \(as illustrated in Figure 1\, we have seeded the ECM in a search region to search only a 20 
260 x 20 260 box that encompasses the observations Generation 1 shows the arbitrary distribution of the first 100 guesses. For each of these guesses, the plume model prepares an idealized plum e centered at the latitude longitude of the guess, measurements of which are then compared to the set of sp acecraft observations. Following the algorithm discussed above, those guesses that most closely fit the observations have their genetic information carried forward into the subsequent generation to seed a portion of the next 100 guesses, with the remaining portion being generated through mutati on, substitution and cloning As quickly as in Generation 5 \(Figure 3, top right\a 
 


  7 significant number of guesses are seen converging on a solution. This convergence improves through Generation 10, although we still see the same fixed number of mutations \(the point at 9 
260 latitude, -6 260 longitude is an example of a mutation\y Generation 20, many guesses have converged to within a fraction of a degree of the correct solution at \(0 260 0 260 e see the influence of substitution of a single gene on a number of guesses in Generation 20, which produce the \221cross\222 shape apparent in the figure. For these guesses, either latitude or longitude is replaced, with the other gene held at its prior best-fit value By adjusting the fraction of mutations and substitutions correctly, one can balance the n eed for diversity with speed of convergence. In the absence of any mutations or substitutions, the solution will converge on the first local best fit it obtains, which may or may not be the global best fit. At the other extreme, a 100% mutation/substitution rate yields scattershot, or random, guesses, and provides no computational advantage over a brute-force solution, since determination of the global best fit only can be made after the full parameter space has been explored. A optimal medium exists somewhere betw een these two extremes.  A series of tests were performed to identify the best ratio to use in our ECM simulations \(Figure 4\he five tests was run out for 40 generations with 100 guesses in each generation, and the best-f it solution \(the lowest value of f from the 100 guesses\ed. We find that the optimal ratio is ~50% crossover, 50% mutation \(including cloning and substitution\, which applies sufficient diversity to the search, but also provides efficient convergence to the global best fit  Figure 4 Demonstration of improved fitness for various ratios of crossover to mutation in a sample ECM run \(spacecraft observations of the circular analytical plume with 0% noise is the reference case cal plume models were run for 40 generations, but with each havi ng the indicated percent of crossover and mutation. Lower values of the ordinate indicate a better match between the plume model and observations. We see that a 50/50 split between crossover and mutation provides the quickest path to a best-fit solution  We use this ratio for all the tests performed in Section 4 Generally, we obtain good convergence in 25 or fewer generations, each c ontaining 100 test pl umes \(2500 total compared with the more than one million required for a brute-force search over the 1440 x 720 points in the original grid Other minimization algorithms, such as LevenbergG-N\have two significant disadvantages over the ECM for this type of problem.  First, because L-M and G-N are gradient-based algorithms, they require the landscape of the fitness function being minimized to be smooth, with a well-defined gradient. The function f being minimized in our tests however, has a sharp \221spike\222 at the best-fit value, and a flat gradient most everywhere else. \(In other words, test plumes that do not exactly match the observations generally have the same poor fitness value regardless of the selection of genes\ Second, both L-M and G-N are local, rather than global, minimizers.  If a guess is made and falls close to a 
 


  8 local minimum, the algorithm can be trapped around the local minimum and never find the global best fit.  The design of the ECM alleviates both of these problems\227it functions well even with poorly defined gradients, and is designed to search for and identify the global best-fit solution There are other alternative a pproaches to identifying global minima such as the simulated annealing \(SA\that do not suffer the aforementioned problems.  The SA approach, as with the ECM, iteratively selects new solutions to the minimization problem; however, the decision to 221accept\222 the new solution in SA is typically made in a probabilistic sense, independent of the new solution\222s fitness.  With the ECM, a new solution is only accepted if the fitness is improved over the prior best fit There are two additional dr awbacks to applying an approach like SA to this particular problem, although they best manifest themselves under less idealized conditions than those used here.  First, SA cannot handle problems that involve multiple competing objectives.  For example, we may be interested in identifying not only the source location of a plume, but also the surf ace emission flux or duration of emission. For such a problem SA is forced to use an aggregated single objective by combining the competing objectives into a single weighted objective function, which is then iteratively optimized.  The ECM, on the other hand can handle these multiple, simultaneous objectives without compromising accuracy in ach ieving each objective, and hence, is significantly more flexible Second, SA cannot find multiple local optimal solutions simultaneously.  In future implementations of our plume identification algorithm, we will likely have environments with multiple plumes, and minima corresponding to each solution.  The ECM is capable of efficiently handling this problem by partitioning the sear ch space into multiple parts and having sub-populations, each of which focuses on a different part of the domain.  Since SA is a one-solution optimization algorithm, it cannot find multiple local solutions simultaneously For the present task, SA provides a viable alternative to obtaining the location of our simulated, idealized plume however it quickly becomes im practical when the problem becomes more complex and more realistic. Under those conditions, the flexibility of the ECM becomes a great asset 4  R ESULTS  A number of tests were performed to quantify accuracy in determining plume surface location as a function of the number of observations, level of instrument noise observation footprint size, and knowledge of actual plume shape. For most of the tests di scussed in this section, we have assumed the simple, circular plume shape for both the actual and test plumes. This allows us to focus specifically on the singular objective of each test without dealing with differences in plume shape The exception to this broad assumption, is, of course, when we evaluate the role of our knowledge of actual plume shape itself, in which case we retain the circular shape fo r our actual plume and employ the zonally asymmetric one for our test plume Number of Observations We have shown previously \(Figure 1\ a simple circular plume appears like when observed for different lengths of time. We have performed a series of tests without random noise, for varying observation periods \(1 day, 10 days, 100 days, 1000 days\e restrict ourselves to using only observations that fall within 
261 10 260 of what appears to be the plume cente r. Because of the Gaussian shape of the plume, tracer stre ngths at locations distant from the center are inconsequential and their contribution to f in Eq. 3 can be ignored.  Consequently, we can reduce our search space \(i.e. the region in which the ECM makes its guesses\to the same 20 260 x 20 260 box, which encloses the region with the strongest observations \(again, our steadystate approximation assures us that the plume source location must be within the region of strongest observations We have found that the accuracy in finding the correct plume center location generally increases as the number of measurements increases, as shown in Table 1. The results for the best-fit surface source location \(latitude and longitude with corresponding error in km\isted after 25 generations. This demonstrates that, while it is not apparent from a cursory glance at Figure 1 that the source location of the true plume can be gleaned from the spacecraft coverage with any precision \(as the blurring of the original plume is quite evident\, the observations do contain a sufficient amount of information to allow the best-fit latitude and longitude to determined by the ECM with high accuracy With observations of such a surface source over several tens of days, we should be able to decrease the source location uncertainty to levels that fall within the mobility range of future surface rovers \(20-40 km\e limit our tests to 1000 days or less of coverage \(about 1.5 martian years\about the length of time of the primary science phase of most Mars missions Table 1 Best-fit latitude and longitude positions for the circular plume model for varying lengths of observation campaigns Campaign Length day  Best-Fit Latitude 260  Best-Fit Longitude 260  Error [km  1 -0.3476 0.6190 42.0 10 -0.2522 0.4613 31.1 100 -0.1862 0.4960 31.3 1000 -0.1834 0.2507 18.4 
 


  9 Instrument Noise Every observational measurement includes some level of noise in addition to the \221true\222 signal. As such signal-to-noise problems are unavoidable, we must attempt to interpret their influence on the measurement result by introducing random noise into each observation and gauging the effect this has on our best-fit solution. To emulate, qualitatively, noise of various amounts, in separate tests we have added a noise term with a 3 
002 distribution of either 10, 100 or 1000% of the local observation strength to each individual spacecraft observation. The impact of this noise term on the circular plume, relative to the perfect 0% error Figure 5 There are 100 days of observations in each example. The results for the determination of the plume source location are presented in Table 2. While Figure 5 shows only one instance in which random noise at a specific amount has been applied, for Table 2\227at each level of measurement uncertainty\227the evaluation of plume source location was done ten times to account for the random factor and the variance among these ten cases is what is reported For low levels of measurement noise, in the tens of percent range, the results are largely indistinguishable from the noise-free standard, and uncertainty in position remains low relative to the noise-free instan ce from 10% to 100%, and then to 1000%, the ability to identify the plume source lo cation becomes significantly diminished. With 100% uncertainty, individual measurements can vary by up to a factor of two, thus introducing \221ghost\222 local maxima in the signal which are then interpreted as being close to the plume source location This phenomenon is significantly increased in the 1000 case. Note that, while Figure 5 shows only one case of random noise applied to the observations, the ghost local maxima do move around at this level of noise in different samplings, thus partly explaining the high uncertainty in source location  Figure 5 Illustration of varying levels of instrument noise on the noise-free plume measurement \(upper left\from 100 days of observations. As instrument noise incr eases, the plume source location is even le ss obvious so that the accuracy to which the plume source location can be isolated is reduced 
 


  10 Table 2 Variance in best-fit latitude and longitude solutions produced by the ECM for varying measurement uncertainty.  Source location uncertainty is relative to 0 measurement uncertainty value Measurement Uncertain Source Location Uncertainty [km  0 0 10 0.6 100 31.5 1000 96.5  Footprint Size We performed a series of experiments demonstrating the role of measurement footprint size on source location uncertainty. As the footprin t size decreases, the spatial extent over which the signal is averaged decreases and, in principle, provides better isolation of the peak signals from the adjacent, weaker \221wings\222 of the plume \(Figure 6 footprint size is decreased from 200 km to 10 km, the retrieved shape from the observations better matches the 221truth\222, although at the expense of a decrease in the area sampled in the same spatial domain. Table 3 bears out the competing influence of increased signal isolation and decreased spatial coverage for a 100-day observation campaign.  From a 200 km \(cross-track\to 100 km footprint, there is a ~45 decrease in uncertainty, but beyond this, there is no furthe r gain. Figure 6 illustrates the cause of this strange behavior.  At 200 km \(upper left\we have near complete surface coverage, with substantial overlap, over the course of 100 days.  At 100 km \(upper right\plete surface coverage, but are beginning to see small gaps in coverage, suggesting that for 100 days of observations, the amount of \221repeat\222 coverage is small.  Hence, by reducing the cross-track footprint from 200 km to 100 km, we are provided the benefits of a smaller footprint  Figure 6 Comparison of different observational footprint sizes.  Top left panel \(200 km\s the nominal footprint size used in this study.  As footprint size is reduced, the shape of the pl ume is better defined, but at th e expense of spatial coverage  Additionally, the peak plume strength in the observation set approaches that of the \221true\222 plume \(cf. Figure 2b\ncrease in black space indicates the fraction of th e surface not observed by the instrument 
 


  11 Table 3 Best-fit latitude and longitude positions for the derived plume source locations and consequent error for varying footprint widths Footprint Width km  Best-Fit Latitude 
260  Best-Fit Longitude 260  Error [km  200 -0.1862 0.4960 31.3 100 -0.1523 0.2485 17.2 50 -0.1178 0.2390 15.8 20 -0.1195 0.2414 15.9 10 -0.1276 0.2391 16.0  but are not sacrificing overall surface coverage. For footprint sizes smaller than 100 km \(Figure 6, lower row the two effects counter each other relatively equally, and there is generally no improvement to the best fit. However as was discussed previously, for a fixed footprint size, an increase in the number of observations \(up to the point where coverage begins to substantially overlap improve the best fit. Footprint size is not an easily adjustable parameter for a spacecraft instrument and appears not to be as significan t a factor in the plume source location error budget as is measurement spatial coverage Plume Shape In previous tests, we used th e idealized case of a circular plume and assumed the same shape for the test plumes However, in reality, we will have no knowledge of the actual shape of the plume from our limited, defocused measurements, so we will need to make an educated guess as to the plume shape that is being observed. While knowledge of the meteorological context of the plume observations may be available, which would allow a simulation of the plume shape using a GCM \(plume lifetime can be inferred from the plume\222s spectroscopically determined composition\, there still will be some discrepancy between the real plume shape and the GCMderived shape used for the test plumes in the ECM analysis of the observational data. We simulated this uncertainty by adopting our real plume shape from Eqn. 1 \(circular\and the test plume from Eqn. 2 \(zonally asymmetric\One might expect this difference to result in a generally poorer solution. In fact, the results in Table 4 for lower surface coverage \(1 and 10 day campai gns\he variation in error with coverage is not certain to be monotonic Interestingly, the errors in localizing the source when there is a reasonably high degree of surface coverage by the measurements are comparable to the results in Table 1 \(both cases assuming noise-free measurements\So, with a reasonable, but not perfect, understanding of the observed plume shape, a campaign length of several tens of days or more, again, brings the uncertainty in plume source location to within the range of a landed rover Table 4 Best-fit latitude and longitude positions for different campaign lengths, but assuming different actual and test plume shapes Campaign Length day  Best-Fit Latitude 260  Best-Fit Longitude 260  Error [km  1 -0.5361 0.2151 34.3 10 -0.1574 1.1961 71.5 100 -0.1692 0.2477 17.8 1000 -0.1389 0.2569 17.3  5  F UTURE P LANS  A more ambitious implementation of this scheme would incorporate output of a full GCM in lieu of our basic analytic test plume model in the ECM framework. With this approach, the set of ECM guesses in a particular generation would spawn a suite of GCM model runs, with the \221best guess\222 solutions from the completed GCM runs identified by the ECM and used to prepare the next generation of guesses.  Such an approach would be entirely autonomous and the best application of the GCM to the problem In the simplified demonstration herein, the importance of the ECM is somewhat understated.  Indeed, for simple plume shapes, a reasonable guess of plume location can be made directly by identifying the peak value in the observation set. This is an unfortunate side effect of this simple, two-gene demonstration.  The real value of the ECM manifests itself when we consider a parameter space of multiple genes.  Under more complex scenarios \(multiple plumes, various lifetimes, etc.\, with as much certainty, isolate individual plume locations. If the steadystate assumption is not valid, and the plume is evolving with time, the age of the plume b ecomes an additional gene we must consider.  Preliminary exploration of plume age as a third gene has begun, and we have obtained positive results from the ECM.  Further work is necessary to incorporate additional genes, and will be pursued in future work 6  C ONCLUSIONS  We have discussed the framework of a novel new approach to finding atmospheric plume source locations on planetary surfaces from orbit by using existing numerical analysis methods. This approach relies on the ability of genetic algorithms to quickly identify global best-fit solutions to a multivariate problem. We have found that, under idealized conditions, a source location can be identified to within tens of km on the surface within a couple dozen iterations of the ECM system using idealized plume shapes, even with limited spacecraft observations to constrain the system Error is minimized by increasing the number of observations, and by reducing the instrument uncertainty 
 


  12 Additionally, development of instruments with narrower footprints may contribute to a decrease in the source location error. Error due to uncertainty in the knowledge of the observed plume shape is reduced when observations are acquired in a long duration campaign. Plans for future development of this approach have been outlined, which involve the incorporation of general circulation models to supplant the idealized plumes used in the present study. The benefits of the genetic algorithms used here are maximized when multiple genes are employed, rather than just latitude and longitude. Examples of these genes would be parameters such as plume age, species lifetime and time evolution of source emission flux This approach can be of great value to planetary exploration programs, which seek high-precision identification of regions of interest on planetar y surfaces to target future landed missions. By applying the methods presented here to realistic atmospheres, we can augment the direct observations made by orbiting spacecraft with a robust indirect approach, saving both time and money 7  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The research described in this publication was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES   V.A. Krasnopolsky, J.P. Maillard and T.C Owen 223Detection of Methane in the Martian Atmosphere Evidence for Life?\224 Icarus 172, 537-547, 2004 2 M.J. Mu m m a G.L. Villan u e v a R.E. No v a k   T Hewagama, B.P. Bonev, M.A. DiSanti and M.D. Smith 223Absolute Measurements of Methane on Mars: The Current Status,\224 Proceedings of the American Astronomical Society Division of Planetary Sciences Bull. Amer. Astron. Soc. 38, 471, 2007 3 M Mu m m a  G. Villan u e v a R.E. No v a k  T. Hewag a m a  B.P. Bonev, M.A. DiSanti and M.D. Smith, \223Absolute Measurements of Methane on Mars: The Current Status,\224 Mars Atmosphere: Modeling and Observations Workshop, #9099, 2008   V Form i s ano S At rey a Th. Encrenaz, N. Ignat i e v and M. Giuranna, \223Detection of Methane in the Atmosphere of Mars,\224 Science 306, 1758-1761, 2004   D.W  B eat y M A. M e y e r and t h e M a rs Advance Pl anni ng Group, \2232006 Update to Robotic Mars Exploration Strategy: 2007-2016,\224 24 pp., 2006   D.J. M c C l eese and t h e M a rs Advance Pl anni ng Group 223Robotic Mars Exploration Strategy: 2007-2016,\224 33pp 2006 7 MEPAG, \223Mars Scien tific Go als Ob j ectiv es Investigations and Priorities: 2006,\224 J. Grant, ed., 31pp 2006   R J Terri l e et al 223Evol ut i onary C o m put at i on Technologies for Space Systems,\224 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, Big Sky, MT, March 2005   S. Lee, C.H. Lee, S. Kerridge, C.D. Edwards and K.-M  Cheung, \223Orbit Design and Optimization Based on Global Telecommunication Performance Metrics,\224 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, Big Sky, MT, March 2006 
 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Michael A. Mischna is an atmospheric scientist with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory focusing on the atmospheres and climates of terrestrial planets. He was the EDL Atmosphere Team Lead for the Mars Phoenix Mission. His research interests include longterm evolution of the martian climate, the role of greenhouse gases in providing habitable environments and surfaceatmosphere interactions. Dr. Mischna has a B.S. in atmospheric science from Cornell University, an M.S. in meteorology from the Pennsylvania State University and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Geophysics and Space Physics from the University of California, Los Angeles  Seungwon Lee is a member of the technical staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Her research interests include genetic algorithms, lowthrust trajectory design nanoelectronics, quantum computation, parallel cluster computation and advanced scientific software modernization techniques. Dr. Lee received her Ph.D. in Physics from the Ohio State University in 2002 Her work is documented in numerous journals and conference proceedings  Mark Allen is supervisor of the Earth and Planetary Atmospheres Group and Principal Scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. His research interests include remote detection of trace atmospheric species, and the role of atmospheric chemistry on the atmospheres of Mars, Venus and Titan. He was the PI of the MARVEL Mars Scout proposal, and is a co-investigator on the MIRO microwave instrument on the Rosetta Orbiter. Dr Allen has a B.A. from Columbia University and received a Ph.D. in Chemistry from the California Institute of Technology in 1976     Richard J. Terrile created and leads the Evolutionary Computation Group at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory. His group has developed genetic algorithmbased tools to improve on human design of space systems and has demonstrated that computer aided design tools can also be used for automated innovation and design of complex systems. He is an astronomer, the Mars Sample Return Study Scientist, the JIMO Deputy Project Scientist and the co-discoverer of the Beta Pictoris circumstellar disk. Dr. Terrile has B.S. degrees in Physics and Astronomy from the State University of New York at Stony Brook and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Planetary Science from the California Institute of Technology in 1978 
 


  14  
 


Available Array Energy 60297 W-hr Battery Recharge Energy Losses 93 W-hr Shunt Energy Losses 20% Battery W-hr 187 W-hr Remaining Electrical Energy 60017 W-hr Power Conversion Losses 80% Efficiency 12003 W-hr Harness Losses \(4 Available Diurnal Load Energy \(CBE Average Load Energy Supported 67.9 W Array Area 0.20 m2 12 specifically the seismometer and magnetometer continuously while other instruments such as the heat flow probes may operate intermittently. The retroreflector does not require any thermal control resources. Telecom between the Earth and the hub or from the remote units to the hub would be during the lunar day only  Description of the Design  A thermal blanket \(MLI Silver-Teflon would be used to moderate the temperature variation of the surface. The MLI and the lunar material thermal conduction properties could be used to insulate the different ALGEP elements from the external environment  The Mars Exploration Rover thermal switch and a thermal radiator with thermal louvers would be used to reject the internally generated thermal energy. The MER Thermal Switch has the ability to transfer up to 11 W. For the hub three or four switches may be necessary, depending on the RF power output  Potentially a small electric heater/thermostat system may be needed \(on the order of 10% of the dissipated electrical energy example, the seismometer, which dissipates 1.5 W, may need a 0.15 W heater. A detailed thermal analysis would be necessary to further assess this need  The ALGEP hardware location would be dictated by the science requirements. Each ALGEP element could be either positioned on the surface or buried.  An example of a buried element would be the seismometer, while the hub could be surface mounted. In either case a surface blanket would be required. The surface blanket would minimize the lunar temperature variation, from a range of -173 to ~127  C to a range under the blanked between approximately -73 to 27  C. Initial calculations indicate that the blanket extending about 0.5 m beyond the edge of the instrument or hub would provide the temperature control of the lunar surface required to minimize the temperature variation. For the lunar night, a small electric heater may be needed to keep the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits  For polar region operation it is assumed that the ALGEP could operate at all times as the solar arrays would always have incident solar energy and could provide electrical power for operations.  Thus with electrical power for the instruments and hub, the thermal radiator and louvers could maintain the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits. Initial calculations indicate that the current conceptual thermal control design does not require electric heaters for this location  Design Rationale  The design uses MLI, thermal conduction control, electric heaters, thermal radiators thermal louvers, and a deployed surface blanket to provide thermal control to maintain the remote units and hub within specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would 


specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would minimize the temperature variation of the surface, and electric heaters would provide makeup thermal energy  Risk  The thermal subsystem design is a low to moderate risk element, as the hardware used has extensive flight experience. Although this system would be on the surface of the Moon, the environment would be space-like, with the  Figure 6  ALGEP avionics block diagram showing the power and command and data handing  interface. This is a low-power design to enable data collection during lunar night at the remote units. The hub  contains the same avionics package but does not interface with an instrument  13 exception of the infrared heating of the lunar surface therefore the space qualified thermal control hardware could provide thermal control for this mission  Command and Data Handling Subsystem Design Requirements  The ALGEP controller is designed to meet the six year mission lifetime requirement stemming from the science objectives flowing down to the mission requirements and has a technology cutoff of 2016 \(assumes a 2020 launch interface to the science instrument and the UHF radio.  The controller for the hub interfaces to the UHF and S-band radios. Each type of controller would be single string  Design Assumptions  All selected electronic parts for the controller have a path to flight hardware with a technology cutoff of 2016. There would be one ALGEP hub that has a bi-directional S-band link to Earth and a UHF receiver link to the remote instrument units. There would be four ALGEP remote units that have UHF transmitters to link to the ALGEP hub. The controllers would have an operating temperature range: -20  C to 35  C. The total ionizing dose of radiation would be 2 krads for the mission  Description of the Design  Both controller designs would incorporate low-powered Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs devices and I/O drivers.  Portions of the existing MultiMission System Architecture Platform \(MSAP Engineering Unit \(REU IP provide the mission clock and alarm clock logic.  Both the hub and remote unit controllers would capture engineering data regarding temperatures, currents and voltages. Figure 6 provides an overview of the command and data handling and power subsystem architectures.  The remote units would be supplied with 2 Gb of memory and the hub would have 5 Gb of memory  Design Rationale  A low-powered avionics architecture would be achieved by developing a stand-alone controller capable of operating at various power levels. In the lowest power configuration only the mission clock and alarm clock logic would be active. Other logic, analog and I/O functions would be power strobed in the off mode during this very low-power mode. Science and engineering data would be stored in non-volatile memory elements that retain their data in the power-off mode  Risk  The controller requires engineering development to obtain the low-powered mode required for night operation However, it has been designed to incorporate components with flight heritage. A lower frequency oscillator would be used to reduce power  Telecom Subsystem 


Design Requirements  The telecom subsystem is designed to return 3.4 Gb of stored data every 16 days during lunar night in addition to 1.2 Gb of additional data collected each 24 hour period during daylight. This translates into a minimum direct-to-Earth return data rate of ~50 kbps for an 8 hour pass each Earth day for 16 days of sunlight. The subsystem must operate down to a temperature of -20  C and survive non-operational temperature of -50  C. The telecom subsystem would support two-way communications between the hub and the DSN network. It would also support two-way communications between the hub and each of the remote instrument packages on the surface. There would be a minimum 3 dB margin for the direct-to-Earth DTE  Design Assumptions  The telecom subsystem is assumed to be a single string design. The hub would have an S-band radio and antenna for two-way communications with a DSN 34 m ground station. The nominal downlink rate would be 120 kbps and the uplink rate would be 2 kbps. The surface links would be at UHF. The forward link data rate would be 8 kbps and the return rate would be 256 kbps. The maximum range for the surface links would be 100 m. All of the surface links would have line-of-sight between the units. It is assumed that the astronauts would point the Sband antenna towards Earth, within 5  of the center of Earth. This should be relatively easy to do as 5  is a very loose pointing requirement and the uplink/downlink would be marginally affected if the pointing is off by a little more than 5  A signal could be added which would use an uplink from the Earth to give a relative signal power to ensure the pointing requirement is met  Description of the Design  The telecom subsystem would use a commercial off-the-shelf S-band transponder \(L3 CXS-610 has a 5 W power amplifier and an S-band diplexer included This radio is used on GRAIL and a similar unit was used on Genesis. The diplexer would be connected to an S-band low gain antenna \(LGA be a 2-element S-band patch array with a boresight gain of 9 dB. It would be mounted on the end of one solar array on the hub and gimbaled to allow the astronaut to point it to the Earth  The hub communicates with each of the remote instrument units in UHF using a new UHF micro-transceiver. Each UHF microtransceiver would have a radio frequency output power of 50 mW. The UHF transceiver would use a halfduplex system meaning it would transmit and then listen However, it cannot do both at the same time. The UHF links would use a simple UHF monopole antenna, similar to the antennas flown on MER, and mounted on the top of the hub and remote units. The hub could only communicate with one remote unit at a time. Figure 7 shows the hub and remote unit telecom block diagrams  The S-Band telemetry link has a margin of 7.0 dB for a telemetry rate of 120 kbps into a 34 m beam waveguide ground station. The data rate could be increased to reduce 14 playback time. The surface link would have a margin exceeding 20 dB for a return data rate of 256 kbps. This includes a multipath loss allotment of 20 dB. The margin would be large because the range would be so small and all of the links would be line of sight  Design Rationale  Where available, the design of this subsystem uses heritage hardware. The UHF microtransceiver is a radio that is under development for the Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, low 


Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, lowpower and low temperature operation. The S-band antenna would be a smaller, simpler version of the antenna that flew on Deep Impact. Other antenna options would be available The UHF antennas have been flown on previous Mars lander/rover missions. There would be other alternatives for the S-band antenna and the UHF transceiver on the hub could use a larger power amplifier to talk to an orbiting asset as a backup to the S-band radio  Risk  The highest risk items for telecom would be the single string design for each element and six year design lifetime. However, the S-band radio has flight heritage. The UHF radios would be a new design but do not require new technology. They would be an engineering development 8. SYSTEM SUMMARY Mass Equipment List Table 5 shows a summary of the mass and power for each of the subsystems for the remote instrument units. The mass of one remote unit without the specified instrument is 26.6 kg with contingency specified at the subsystem level based on heritage. Table 6 shows a summary of mass and power by subsystem for the hub. The mass of the hub with contingency is 44.9 kg. Table 7 shows a mass summary for the entire package with appropriate contingencies added per the JPL  s Flight Project Practices and Design Principles Design Principles. The package totals 218.2 kg which includes four remote units, five instruments, one hub, and the carrier container\(s Table 5. Mass and power summary for remote units Remote Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 2.0 kg 29% 2.5 kg 0 W Telecom UHF 0.2 24% 0.3 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour 3 W Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 20.6 kg 29% 26.6 kg Diplexer S-Band Downconverter STDN command data to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r S-Band Exciter 9 dBi S-Band LGA UHF Downconverter Small UHF transceiver command data to S/C CDS 


to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r UHF PA UHF Monopole Command data to C&amp;DH Command dat  to C&amp;DH  Figure 7  Telecom block diagram for the S-band \(top bottom  units would be located on the hub while the remote units only contain a UHF system 15 9. OPERATIONAL SCENARIOS Daytime Operations During the day, the remote units and hub would be fully operational. The remote units would collect data from their instruments as specified by the science team and store it in the controller memory. Table 8 shows the data volume expected from each instrument. After 24 hours have passed the UHF telecom system on the hub is used to poll each of the remote units separately at the designated interval for the stored data. The hub then transmits the data direct-to-Earth using the S-band radio. This requires a maximum of eight hours at 50 kbps each day using the DSN 34 m antennas However, data rates as high as 120 kbps may be achieved reducing the downlink time. The hub has enough memory margin to accumulate data from all the instruments for three Earth days before it must downlink the data Nighttime Operations During nighttime operations, data collection at the remote units would be taking place. The magnetometer and seismometer collect data continuously. However, the seismometer operates at a reduced mode where the sampling rate is reduced to one-half of the daytime rate which has been deemed more than adequate by the science team. The remaining instruments collect data at various intervals that would be conducive to the science team  s current requirements. Telecom events would not be scheduled during the lunar night. The data accumulates in the controller memory over 16 Earth days \(~14 days at an equatorial location would be considered a worse case so two days have been added to be conservative data volume summary for each instrument during a 16 Earth day lunar night. When the sun comes up and the hub and remote units have sufficient power to run the telecom systems the hub polls each remote unit separately at a designated interval similar to operations during the day. The data would then be transmitted to Earth gradually over the next few days using the S-band radio Table 7. Mass summary for total package Unit Mass Contingency Mass + contingency 4 Remote Units 82.4 kg 29% 106.4 kg Hub 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg Instruments including cabling 17.3 kg 30% 22.5 kg Carrier Container\(s Total with heritage contingency 153.1 kg 29% 197.5 kg  System contingency  21.4 kg 14 Total Package  43% 218.9 kg Table 8. Instrument data volumes received at the hub over one Earth day in daylight operations Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub 


Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 236 Magnetometer 58 Heat Flow Probe 2 Seismic Sounder 700 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 6 Total 1002 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 80  Table 6. Mass and power summary for hub Hub/Base Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 13.4 kg 28% 17.2 kg 0 W Telecom UHF Telecom S-band 3.4 15% 3.9 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour W \(day Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg 2.38 W avg at night  16 10. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS The ALGEP modular design builds upon lessons learned from Apollo era ALSEP package and technology advances since that time. ALGEP meets the requirements of long lifetime survival while maintaining continuous operation of its instruments during the lunar night which can last up to 16 days at equatorial regions on the Moon. The package would be powered using solar arrays and batteries alone not requiring nuclear sources to supply power or maintain thermal control. This concept is feasible due to its lowpower operational mode at night The modular design and packaging scheme provides flexibility in deployment across all regions of the Moon including the farside pending the availability of an orbital communications asset. The relatively light ALGEP package could be accommodated on astronaut activity support vehicles, providing a method to distribute the packages across the Moon, ultimately gaining a Moon-wide understanding of lunar geophysical properties ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by the NASA Lunar Sortie Science Opportunities Program The work described in this publication was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration References herein to any specific commercial product process or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer 


or otherwise does not constitute or imply its endorsement by the United States Government or the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology REFERENCES 1] NRC  Scientific Context for Exploration of the Moon   Washington D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2007 2] Apollo 11 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-214, 1969 3] Apollo 12 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-235, 1970 4] Apollo 14 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-272, 1971 5] Apollo 15 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-289, 1972 6] Apollo 16 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-315, 1972 7] Apollo 17 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-330, 1973 8] ALSEP Termination Report, NASA RP-1036, 1979 9] NRC  New Frontiers in the Solar System: an Integrated Exploration Strategy  Decadal Survey D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2003 10] International Lunar Network Science Definition Team Final Report, 2009 BIOGRAPHY Melissa Jones is a member of the technical staff in the Planetary and Lunar Mission Concepts Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  Current work includes development of small Lunar lander concepts and instrument packages to deploy on the Moon,  Report Manager for the Titan Saturn System Mission Outer Planets Flagship Mission study, and staffing various concept studies as a systems engineer on Team X, JPL  s mission design team.  Melissa graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry and a Ph.D. in Space and Planetary Science from the University of Arkansas  Linda Herrell has a BA in math/computer science/languages \(University of Texas fluids and heat transfer \(City College of New York addition to analytical work in computer science and thermal and structural analysis, she has worked as both a payload \(instrument Earth orbiting \(Hubble Space Telescope, Earth Observing System \(EOS Cassini as Proposal Manager for several NASA science missions She currently serves as the Program Architect for NASA's New Millennium Program    Table 9. Instrument data volumes generated at the hub after 16 Earth day lunar night Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 1980 Magnetometer 920 Heat Flow Probe 5 Seismic Sounder 0 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 72 Total 2977 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 40  17 Bruce Banerdt has been a research geophysicist at the California Institute of Technology's Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1977, where he does research in planetary geophysics and instrument development for flight projects. He has been on science teams for numerous planetary missions 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


