A Computational Method to Predict DNA Copy Number Alterations from Gene Expression Data in Tumor Cases   Huimin Geng Department of Pathology and Microbiology, University of Nebraska Medical Center Omaha, NE 68198 hgeng@mail.unomaha.edu   Wing C. Chan Department of Pathology and Microbiology, University of Nebraska Medical Center Omaha, NE 68198 jchan@unmc.edu   Hesham H. Ali Department of Computer Science, University of Nebraska 
at Omaha, Omaha, NE 68182 hali@mail.unomaha.edu   Abstract  Genetic alterations, such as chromosomal gains and losses, are key causes of tumorigenesis Comparative Genomic Hybridization \(CGH\is a molecular method for detecting such DNA copy number alterations in tumor cells. Recent observations have reported that in many tumors, the mRNA transcript changes measured by gene expression profiling \(GEP\e correlated with corresponding DNA copy number alterations, supporting the possibility of predicting DNA copy number alterations from GEP data. In this paper, contrary to the traditional use of GEP, we present a new analytical 
approach utilizing GEP data for predicting DNA copy number alterations  The proposed approach is built on a hidden Markov model and trained in the light of paired GEP and CGH data on a sufficient number of tumor cases of the same tumor type. Then it can be applied to new cases of that tumor type to predict the CGH profiles from their GEP profiles     1. Introduction  Genetic alterations, such as chromosomal gains and losses, are key causes of tumorigenesis. Prior to undergoing cell division, a cell must exactly replicate 
its genome by synthesizing a new copy of each chromosome. During this process, regions of DNA can be deleted or fail to be replicated, resulting in a loss, or conversely duplicated or multiplied, resulting in a gain of copy number. Healthy cells maintain checkpoints to monitor and correct this genomic instability. However if a checkpoint has been inactivated, the cell can survive in its altered state. A particular danger exists if genomic alterations predispose a cell to uncontrolled proliferation. For example, if an oncogene a gene which stimulates cell growth, is housed in a gain 
region, that oncogene may be over-expressed and cause the transformation of normal cells into cancerous tumor cells. On the other hand, the loss of a region that houses a tumor suppressor gene a gene whose activity opposes uncontrolled cell growth, will result in the inactivation of that gene and hence cell growth to progress without control. Such regional alterations in copy number are a characteristic of many tumors Thus, there is an inherent need to track and understand these genetic aberrations Comparative Genomic Hybridization \(CGH\was developed as a molecular cytogenetic method for 
detecting and mapping such copy number alterations in the DNA content of  tumor cells [1, 2  It is a powerful fluorescent in situ hybridization \(FISH\ethod for assessing whole genomic DNA from tumor samples that provides a comprehensive analysis of changes in the relative copy number of chromosomal material Researchers have used CGH to examine the chromosomal aberrations in tu mors in order to identify chromosome regions containing genes that may contribute to the disease [3h e m e t h od w a s bas e d  
on the hybridization of fluorescently labeled tumor and normal genomic DNA to normal metaphase chromosomes. Using epiflourescence microscopy and quantitative image analysis, the \(fluorescence ratio along the chromosomes is used to evaluate regions of DNA gain or loss in the tumor sample  Gene expression profiling \(GEP\ a genome-wide microarray technique which measures mRNA expression of thousands of genes simultaneously Researchers have been using GEP arrays to detect expression patterns under certain circumstances, such 
as tumor vs. normal samples or between subtypes of tumors   In the post-genomic era, the majority of the studies in tumor biology have been focusing on GEP but not CGH due to limitations in resolution. As a result, a substantial amount of genome-wide, high density GEP data have been accumulated and made publicly Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


available via centralized and standardized databases in the last decade, but few CGH studies have been done with a large series of tumor cases. The tremendous amount of GEP data represents an important resource for biomedical research. Nevertheless, this resource has not yet fully been exploited. High resolution array CGH is expensive and labor intensive. It requires sample cutting and DNA extraction which is often cumbersome in tumor biopsies. For some tumors, it is very difficult to obtain adequate tumor specimens due to the rarity of the disease or the difficulty to obtain tumor necrosis which are often associated with the disease. In addition, it is usually very difficult, if not impossible, for an investigative group to collect a large series of tumor specimens, which have been GEP performed by other groups, for a new CGH study. It would be a big advantage to derive DNA copy number alterations from GEP data without performing actual CGH experiments In this study, we proposed a novel computational model using a hidden Markov model \(HMM DNA copy number alterations based on GEP data Since the model takes GEP data as the input to infer a virtual CGH profile, we call it virtual CGH \(vCGH predictor. The rationale for vCGH is based on the observation that, in general a region with chromosomal gain or loss results in comparative increased or decreased mRNA expression all along the aberrant loci, as reported in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma DLBCL m a n tle cell l y m p h o m a M CL   natural killer-cell lymphoma \(NKCL e m i a   r eas t can cer [1113], pros tate can cer [14  gastric can d s a rcom a [16]. In g e n e ral, the  expression level of 30~50% of the genes present in the aberrant regions showed an association with the corresponding DNA copy number alterations. It is true that chromosomal structural changes are not the only reason for gene expression changes, and there are other mechanisms to regulate gene expression, such as epigenetic modification, translocation, mutation transcription units and so on. But most of those mechanisms only affect one or a few genes, but not a set of genes in a region. The only exception reported so far having large regional effects is an epigenetic modification which could silence the entire X chromosome. So if the pattern of gene expression in an entire region is changes, it is likely to come from the chromosomal ragional alterations. To our advantage we had both GEP and CGH experiments performed on 64 mantle cell lymphoma \(MCL\ses. In the light of the association between GEP and CGH, it s likely to predict DNA copy number alterations from the GEP data by a novel computational model The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In section 2, we illustrate vCGH model, including model structure, model training and model predicting. In section 3, we describe the MCL dataset used to evaluate vCGH model and the GEP and CGH experiments. In section 4, we provide the vCGH model performance. In section 5, we conclude that vCGH predictor is a powerful tool that may significantly enhance the data analysis of GEP in cancer research  2. Proposed Method  Hidden Markov models \(HMMs\are well developed statistical models used to capture hidden information from observable sequential symbols HMMs have been successfully applied to biology as in finding protein secondary structure, CpG islands and families of related DNA or protein sequen e  of the most common problem formulations using HMMs is Given a sequence of symbols as observations, predict the hidden state for each symbol along the sequence Applying to our vCGH, we want to decode hidden CGH state from GEP observations The observation symbols from GEP are H  L or M for high, low or medium expression, and hidden states for CGH are   or o for gain, loss or normal status  2.1   vCGH Model Structure  A HMM is a Bayesian network which describes a doubly-embedded stochastic process with one observable process x i  x i   H  L or M  describing the observed GEP data, and one hidden process i  i    or o describing the unobserved CGH states. In a HMM, the state is not directly visible, but variables influenced by the state are visible. Figure 1 illustrates the vCGH model, where the shaded nodes S 1  S 2   S n represent hidden state variables and the visible nodes E 1  E 2   E n represent the observations for the variables. The observable emission space consists of three GEP symbols H  L  M and the hidden state space consists of nine states describing GEP profiles superimposed on CGH states  H  L  M  H L M H o L o M o where E emits E, E H  L  or  M  and    or o          Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


  S1 Chromosome S2 Sn E1 E2 En S1 Chromosome S2 Sn E1 E2 En   Figure 1. vCGH model presented as a Bayesian network The hidden states variables are shaded as S 1  S 2   S n representing nine hidden states H   L   M   H  L  M  H o  L o  M o  The observations for the variables are E 1  E 2   E n representing three emission symbols H  L  M    The model parameters for a HMM come from two categories: 1\ state transition probabilities 1   kl i i aP l k     which is a probability from state k to state l 2\ emission probabilities     lii eb Px b l   which is a probability distribution over all the possible output symbols b for each state l The state transition diagram of the vCGH model was shown in Figure 2 The model is a single chain incorporating three Markov sub-chains: sub-chain \(+\b-chain \(-\nd sub-chain o each sub-chain there is a complete set of transitions describing the state transitions within a CGH state. The transitions between sub-chains are allowed for describing CGH state changes. This design makes it possible to identify alterative regions of variable length automatically by screening a chromosome, without the fixed-window-size problem It s obvious from the transition diagram that the transition probability parameters are composed of a 9 x 9 matrix \(nine states\d the emission probability parameters are composed of a 9 x 3 matrix \(nine states three symbols  H M L HMLHo Mo Lo sub-chain  sub-chain o  sub-chain   H M L H M L HMLHMLHo Mo Lo Ho Mo Lo sub-chain  sub-chain o  sub-chain     Figure 2. State transition diagram of vCGH model The model is a single HMM chain nd  o    2.2   vCGH Training  We can develop a HMM \(or train model parameters\ for the genome as a whole or a separate HMM for each chromosome, depending the targeting organisms and the customer requirement. For example for some model organisms such as bacteria, which have short and simple genomes, we can have one set of HMM parameters trained on the entire genome. But for long and complex genomes such as human, we can train HMM parameters for each chromosome accordingly, since each chromosome is a wellorganized, condensed structure both physically and functionally and the gain and loss patterns for each chromosome, for each tumor type are different. Our program can handle HMM training on chromosome level or genome level depending on customers  requirement In this study, we train each chromosome separately to get more refined model parameters. The spatial order of the genes on each chromosome was preserved and mapped onto the CGH cytobands according to Affymetrix probe sets alignments and NCBI Human Genome database Build 36.1. The paired GEP and CGH data were preprocessed separately and translated into the symbolic format before integrating into the vCGH model H  L and M for high, low and medium expression of GEP data, and   and o  for gain, loss and normal state of CGH data  In our training data each tumor case has both GEP and CGH data associated, and hence the hidden state path for each observation sequence is known Therefore, we estimate transition and emission parameters using maximum likelihood estimation MLE\ Eq. \(1\here a kl is the transition probability from state k to state l  e l  b the emission probability of symbol b at state l  A kl and E l  b e counts that a particular state transition event or an emission used in the set of training sequences      and    kl l kl l kl l lb AEb aeb AEb  1   2.3   vCGH Prediction  Having the model parameters specified, we can now predict hidden CGH state path for a new sequence of GEP observations using either Viterbi decoding or Posterior decoding. Viterbi algorithm is a dynamic programming algorithm and it estimates the state path by finding out the most likely one. We have presented this decoding method in the vCGH model in  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


Posterior \(or Forward-Backward\orithm is an alternative to the Viterbi algorithm to predict the hidden, probable state path, but instead of finding the most likely path as a whole, it intends to find the most likely symbol at each position and then concatenate those symbols as a path. Therefore it provides the flexibility to set the threshold in alteration calling which could not be handled in the Viterbi algorithm Posterior algorithm is derived from Forward and Backward algorithms. Forward algorithm is a similar dynamic programming procedure to the Viterbi algorithm, but by replacing the maximization steps with sums to obtain the full probability for all possible paths    P xPx    In Forward algorithm 1     kii f iPxx k   is the full probability for all the probable paths ending in state k with observation up to and including x i and 1 1    llikkl k f iexfia   is the recursion corresponding to the observation up to and including  x i 1 Backward variable 1     kiLi bi Px x k     is analogous to the Forward variable f k  i t instead obtained by a backward recursion starting at the end of the sequence 1     1 klikll l bi ex abi     Algorithm \(1 Forward Initialization  i  0  Recursion  i 1 L  Termination  i=L  0 0 1, \(0 0 for 0 k ff k        1  llik kl k f iex fi a   0    kk k P xfLa    Algorithm \(2 Backward Initialization  i  L  Recursion  i  L1 1 Termination  i 1 0   for 0 kk bL a k   1     1 klikll l bi ex abi    10    1 lll l Px e x ab     Having the Forward and Backward algorithms, the posterior probability that observation x i comes from state k given the emitted sequence x is   ikk P kx fibi Px    2  where P  x n be obtained by the Termination step in the Forward or Backward calculation as shown in Algorithm \(2\osterior probability of symbol i  coming from a state in the specific set is       i k Gi x P k xgk    3  where g  k a function defined on the states, in our vCGH g  k or k  H   L   M   g  k 1 for k  H  L  M and g  k 0 for the rest k Then we concatenate the most probable state at each position to form the entire CGH state path  2.4   Smoothing Algorithm  Since our conventional CGH data has the resolution on cytobands while GEP data is on the basis of genes a smoothing algorithm was also performed on genelevel gain/loss to determine cytoband-level gain/loss Basically, we used a multinomial model to estimate the likelihood of a cytoband being a gain or loss as a whole, based on the genes \(or probe sets that cytoband, as we presented previously in        3. Data Description  The data used in this study included 64 mantle cell lymphoma \(MCL\es, provided by the LLMPP consortium ll t h e cas e s h a v e been GEP an d  CGH performed  3.1. Gene Expression Experiments  The GEP data on the 64 MCLs was performed using Affymetrix HG-U133 Plus 2 arrays \(Santa Clara CA\he HG-U133 Plus 2.0® Array analyzes the expression level of over 54,000 RNA transcripts and variants with 22 different probe sets per transcript and 1.3 million data points in all representing about 20,000 genes the majority of the predicted 20,000 to 25,000 human genes are covered. The GEP experiments including isolation of RNA, hybridization and image processing, were performed strictly according to the protocol set up by Affymetrix. The Affymetrix GCOS software was utilized for management, sharing and analysis of expression data generated. BRB-ArrayTool  a s  u s ed to i m port an d n o r m alize g lobal m e dia n  normalization\ the expression data, and to obtain the functional annotations of probe sets. Increased and decreased 1.5-fold change was used as the threshold to determine high and low expression of a gene in tumors as compared to the median expression of all tumor cases in the cohort   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


3.2. CGH Experiments  The CGH data on the 64 MCLs was performed using a commercially available CGH kit provided by Vysis \(Downers Grove, IL\ which detects genomic alterations on the basis of cytobands \(Mb T h e summary of the CGH procedure is as follows: extract DNA from the tumor tissue of interest and lable the DNA with SpectrumGreen TM dUPT; hybridize SpectrumGreen-labeled specimen DNA and SpectrumRed TM reference DNA in the presence of COT-1 blocking DNA to denatured normal metaphase cells for 48 to 72 hours; wash slides to remove nonspecifically bound DNA  Hybridizations and digital image acquisition, processing, and evaluation were performed on a Cytovision Ultra workstation Applied Imaging, Sunderland, UK  T h e resu lt o f  the hybridization and subsequent CGH analysis is a ratio profile of two fluorescent signals whose relative strengths indicate gain or loss of DNA material within chromosomal sub regions. As suggested by the company, signal ratios greater than 1.25 or less than 0.75 were considered as chromosomal gains or losses respectively. Due to CGH technical limitation, smallsized chromosomes including chromosomes 19, 20, 21 22 and Y didn t have precise detection calls of gains or losses and hence were excluded from the CGH study Due to lack of gender data, chromosome X was also excluded from this study. All CGH data are available at http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sky   4. Results  We applied the vCGH model to the MCL dataset as described in section 3. The prediction performance was evaluated using leave-one-out cross validation as shown in Figure 3. The entire MCL dataset was split into training and testing sets. In the training set coupled GEP and CGH data were used for model parameter estimation; in the testing set, GEP data was used for virtual CGH prediction while the corresponding actual CGH data was used for validation. The splitting proce ss was repeated until all the tumor cases were traversed in the testing. It is noticeable that each time we leave one case in testing no matter whether this testing case exhibited gain or loss on a chromosome or not   Testing Cases CGH data GEP data CGH data Parameter Estimation vCGH Prediction vCGH Validation Training Cases GEP data 1 2 3 4 Cases 5 Sum Cross Validation Re-splitting vCGH performance Testing Cases CGH data GEP data CGH data Parameter Estimation vCGH Prediction vCGH Validation Training Cases GEP data 1 2 3 4 Cases 5 Sum Cross Validation Re-splitting vCGH performance   Figure 3. The flowchart of performing and evaluating vCGH model using MCL cases  Questioning whether a sophisticated model is necessary or not in predicting DNA copy number alterations from GEP data, we also manufactured two other simple and obvious methods to compare with vCGH one is GEP raw observations and the other is GEP after smoothing. Another reason that we made those two methods is that, to our knowledge, there is no such prediction tool existing yet to compare with vCGH. By GEP raw observations, we mean that the gain and loss status for individual genes are obtained from a direct correlation to the expression level without performing any further analysis, that is, a greater than 1.5-fold increase in gene expression corresponding to a gain, a greater than 1.5-fold decrease to a loss, and any number in between to a normal region. By GEP after smoothing, we mean applying the smoothing algorithm described in 2.4 on GEP raw observations, which is basically a sliding window spanning a certain number of consecutive genes across a chromosome and a LOD likelihood score for the window. The size of the window varied depending on the length of the cytoband scanned. LOD score of 2 was used as the cutoff value. As a notational convention, we denote the methods of GEP raw observation as GEP and GEP after smoothing as sGEP in the rest of the paper  4.1. Prediction on Gene Level  The prediction performance was evaluated using leave-one-out cross validation by comparing the predicted gain and loss status of each gene with the gold standard from the actual CGH experiments. We compared sensitivity and specificity of GEP, sGEP and vCGH \(both Viterbi and Posterior decoding\ methods in predicting gain and loss regions in Figure 4 and 5 respectively. Each box represents one chromosome Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


We use different colors to represent the performance of different methods: light green for GEP, dart green for sGEP, red cross for vCGH Viterbi decoding, and the rest colors for a series of vCGH Posterior decoding with posterior probabilities equal to 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8 and 0.9. The ideal performance point should be at the upper right corner where both sensitivity and specificity are good. From Figure 4 and 5, it is obvious that vCGH outperforms GEP and sGEP methods by lying at the most upper right corner for most chromosomes. GEP method laid at the most lower left corner, indicating a bad agreement with the experimental CGH. sGEP, which is a simple processing of GEP data, lying in the middle, improved the prediction a little bit. But vCGH, both Viterbi and Posterior decoding, has the best sensitivity and specificity values, benefiting from the model refinement and the training process As expected, under the vCGH Posterior decoding increasing the posterior probability \(from p 0.5 to p 0.9\ulted in an increased specificity and a decreased sensitivity in predicting gains or losses. We noticed that the vCGH prediction were good for the majority of chromosomes, but not good for some chromosomes, such as chr1, chr6, chr9, chr10 and chr13 for gains and chr4, chr5, chr15 and chr18 for losses. The reason for this is due to infrequent aberration of these chromosomes being observed in MCL. For example, in the experimental CGH, of the 64 MCL cases, only one, three, one, two and one case were observed with gains on chr1, chr6, chr9, chr10 and chr13, respectively, and two, one, one and two cases with losses on chr4, chr5, chr15 and chr18 respectively In general, in predicting gain, sensitivity was improved from 40% in GEP to 45% in sGEP and to 75% in vCGH, and specificity from 70% in GEP to 85% in sGEP and to 90% in vCGH \(Figure 4\n predicting loss, sensitivity from 30% in GEP to 50% in sGEP and to 60% in vCGH, and specificity from 80 in GEP to 90% in sGEP and vCGH \(Figure 5\n predicting normal, sensitivity from 40% in GEP to 60% in sGEP and to 70% in vCGH, and specificity from 45% in GEP to 50% in sGEP to 65% in vCGH figure was not shown  4.2. Prediction on Cytoband Level  We showed the predicted gains and losses on the cytoband level by vCGH Viterbi decoding \(Figure 6 left d Posteriori decoding \(Figure 6 right he losses were plotted on the left side and gains on the right side. In Posterior decoding, we also plotted a range of posterior probability values, from p 0.5 to p 0.9, denoted by different colors in the figure. Under Posterior decoding we found that the number of predicted gains/losses increas es as posterior probability decreases, but the shapes of the plots were in concordant trend. Comparing the shapes of Viterbi and Posterior, a good agreement was also observed The cytoband-level vCGH prediction was also compared with CGH gold standard using Fisher s exact test. In Fisher s exact, the sums of the gains and losses from vCGH Viterbi and CGH were compared on a band-by-band basis. Among a total of 290 cytobands only 6 cytobands in the two groups exhibits nonrandom association if p-value <5% \(Table 1\This holds true for the comparison between vCGH Posterior and CGH as well. This indicates the prediction from vCGH are similar to CGH for most of the cytobands  Table 1. Cytobands exhibiting different patterns of gains and losses between CGH and vCGH using Fisher s exact test \(p<0.05  band p-value band p-value 3p24 0.019 6p25 0.011 3p26 0.031 6p24 0.011 3p25 0.031 8p23 0.032   5. Conclusions  In this paper, we proposed a novel computational approach, vCGH, for the prediction of CGH profiles DNA copy number alterations\rom GEP profiles in tumor cases. vCGH was constructed on a hidden Markov model, which was trained in the light of the paired GEP and CGH data on the same set of a sufficient number of tumor cases, and then applied to new cases of the same tumor type for the prediction of chromosomal gains and losses based on their GEP data. Viterbi and Posterior algorithms were used as the decoding methods in the vCGH model. The prediction performance was tested using leave-one-out cross validation on 64 MCL cases. The results showed that vCGH predictor reached 70% sensitivity and 90 specificity in predicting both chromosomal gains and losses, which is significantly better than simple processing methods of GEP raw observations In this study, we used MCL as an application, but vCGH is a general tool which can be applied to other types of tumors. In addition, our model does not only highlight DNA copy number alterative regions but also served as an integrative tool cross-linking genomic and transcriptiomic data. In conclusion, vCGH is a powerful tool that may significantly enhance the data analysis of GEP and the detection of genetic abnormalities in cancer research Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


  Figure 4. Sensitivity and specificity in predicting gains by GEP, sGEP, vCGH Viterbi and Posterior decoding with p 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8 and 0.9, respectively  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


   Figure 5. Sensitivity and specificity in predicting losses by GEP, sGEP, vCGH Viterbi and Posterior decoding with p 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8 and 0.9, respectively   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


   Figure  6. Chromosomal gains and losses predicted by vCGH Viterbi left and vCGH Posterior  right   In Posterior decoding, different probability cutoff values p=0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8 and 0.9 are shown by different colors. Left-sided bars of each figure correspond to losses whereas right-sided bars indicate gains. X-axis represents the frequency of the alterations. In Y-axis, cytobands are ordered along the chromosome from pter to qter  Acknowledgment  We would like to thank Lymphoma/Leukemia Molecular Profiling Project \(LLMPP http://llmpp.nih.gov\ for sharing the GEP and CGH data. This work was supported in part by the NCI grant number 5U01/CA114778, Department of Health and Human Services, and the NIH grant number P20 RR16469 from the INBRE program of the National Center for Research Resources  References   S  du  M a n o i r   M  R S p ei cher S  J o o s  E   Schrock, S. Popp, H. Dohner, G. Kovacs, M. RobertNicoud, P. Lichter, and T. Cremer, "Detection of complete and partial chromosome gains and losses by comparative genomic in situ hybridization Hum Genet vol. 90, pp 590-610, Feb 1993 2 A  Ka llionie m i, O P  Ka lli onie m i, D. Suda r D  Rutovitz, J. W. Gray, F. Waldman, and D. Pinkel Comparative genomic hybridization for molecular cytogenetic analysis of solid tumors Science vol. 258, pp 818-21, Oct 30 1992 3 J. Fridly a nd, A  M. Snijde r s, D  P i nk e l D. G   Albertson, and A. N. Jain, "Hidden Markov Models Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


Approach to the Analysis of Array CGH Data J Multivariate Anal vol. 90, pp. 132-153., 2004 4  A  O l s h e n a nd E. Ve nk a t r a m a n C ha ng e point  analysis of array-based comparative genomic hybridization data In proceedings of Joint Statistical Meetings pp 2530-2535, 2002 5 A  M. Snijde r s  N  N o w a k  R. Se g r a v e s S Blackwood, N. Brown, J. Conroy, G. Hamilton, A. K Hindle, B. Huey, K. Kimura, S. Law, K. Myambo, J Palmer, B. Ylstra, J. P. Yue, J. W. Gray, A. N. Jain, D Pinkel, and D. G. Albertson, "Assembly of microarrays for genome-wide measurement of DNA copy number Nat Genet vol. 29, pp. 263-4, Nov 2001  P  W a n g  Y Ki m  J P o l l ack B Narasi m h an  an d R. Tibshirani, "A method for calling gains and losses in array CGH data Biostatistics vol. 6, pp. 45-58, Jan 2005 7 S. Be a   A  Ze ttl G   W r ig ht, I. Sa l a v e rria  P  Je hn  V. Moreno, C. Burek, G. Ott, X. Puig, L. Yang, A. LopezGuillermo, W. C. Chan, T. C. Greiner, D. D. Weisenburger J. O. Armitage, R. D. Gascoyne, J. M. Connors, T. M Grogan, R. Braziel, R. I. Fisher, E. B. Smeland, S. Kvaloy H. Holte, J. Delabie, R. Simon, J. Powell, W. H. Wilson, E S. Jaffe, E. Montserrat, H. K. Muller-Hermelink, L. M Staudt, E. Campo, and A. Rosenwald, "Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma subgroups have distinct genetic profiles that influence tumor biology and improve gene-expressionbased survival prediction Blood vol. 106, pp. 3183-90 Nov 1 2005 8 I. Sa la v e rria   A  Ze ttl, S. Be a  V   More n o J  Valls, E. Hartmann, G. Ott, G. Wright, A. LopezGuillermo, W. C. Chan, D. D. Weisenburger, R. D Gascoyne, T. M. Grogan, J. Delabie, E. S. Jaffe, E Montserrat, H. K. Muller-Hermelink, L. M. Staudt, A Rosenwald, and E. Campo, "Specific secondary genetic alterations in mantle cell lymphoma provide prognostic information independent of the gene expression-based proliferation signature J Clin Oncol vol. 25, pp. 1216-22 Apr 1 2007 9 J. Iqba l, R. J. De L e e u w   G  Sriva s ta v a C. Kuc u k   H. Geng, W. Tam, D. Klinkebiel, K. Patel, K. Cao, L Shen, K. Dybkaer, I. F. L. Tsui, J. K. Christman, H. Ali, N Shimizu, W. Au, W. L. Lam, and W. C. Chan, "High resolution comparative genomic hybridization and gene expression analysis of chromosomal aberrations in natural killer-cell malignancies Submitted 2008 10  K  V i r t a n e v a  F  A  W r i g h t  S  M  T a n n e r  B   Yuan, W. J. Lemon, M. A. Caligiuri, C. D. Bloomfield, A de La Chapelle, and R. Krahe, "Expression profiling reveals fundamental biological differences in acute myeloid leukemia with isolated trisomy 8 and normal cytogenetics Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A vol. 98, pp. 1124-9, Jan 30 2001 11  J  Cla r k  S Ed w a rd s  M. J o h n  P. F l o h r, T   Gordon, K. Maillard, I. Giddings, C. Brown, A Bagherzadeh, C. Campbell, J. Shipley, R. Wooster, and C S. Cooper, "Identification of amplified and expressed genes in breast cancer by comparative hybridization onto microarrays of randomly selected cDNA clones Genes Chromosomes Cancer vol. 34, pp. 104-14, May 2002 12  J  R  P o l l a c k  T  S o r l i e  C  M  P e r o u  C  A  R e e s   S. S. Jeffrey, P. E. Lonning, R. Tibshirani, D. Botstein, A L. Borresen-Dale, and P. O. Brown, "Microarray analysis reveals a major direct role of DNA copy number alteration in the transcriptional program of human breast tumors Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A vol. 99, pp. 12963-8, Oct 1 2002 13  E. Hy m a n, P  K a ura n ie m i S H a uta n ie m i M Wolf, S. Mousses, E. Rozenblum, M. Ringner, G. Sauter O. Monni, A. Elkahloun, O. P. Kallioniemi, and A Kallioniemi, "Impact of DNA amplification on gene expression patterns in breast cancer Cancer Res vol. 62 pp. 6240-5, Nov 1 2002 14  J  L  P h i l l i p s  S  W  H a y w a r d  Y  W a n g  J   Vasselli, C. Pavlovich, H. Padilla-Nash, J. R. Pezullo, B M. Ghadimi, G. D. Grossfeld, A. Rivera, W. M. Linehan G. R. Cunha, and T. Ried, "The consequences of chromosomal aneuploidy on gene expression profiles in a cell line model for prostate carcinogenesis Cancer Res vol. 61, pp. 8143-9, Nov 15 2001 15  A  V a ris, M W o lf O. Mo n n i M  L  V a k k a ri, A   Kokkola, C. Moskaluk, H. Frierson, Jr., S. M. Powell, S Knuutila, A. Kallioniemi, and W. El-Rifai, "Targets of gene amplification and overexpression at 17q in gastric cancer Cancer Res vol. 62, pp. 2625-9, May 1 2002 16  S  C  L i n n  R  B  W e s t  J  R  P o l l a c k  S  Z h u  T   Hernandez-Boussard, T. O. Nielsen, B. P. Rubin, R. Patel J. R. Goldblum, D. Siegmund, D. Botstein, P. O. Brown, C B. Gilks, and M. van de Rijn, "Gene expression patterns and gene copy number changes in dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans Am J Pathol vol. 163, pp. 2383-95, Dec 2003 17  R. D u rbi n S  E ddy A  K r og h, a nd G  Mitc his o n  Biological sequence analysis: probabilistic models of proteins and necleic acids New York: Cambridge Unisersity Press, 1998 1 H. G e n g H. H. A li, and W  C  Ch an  A Hidden Markov Model Approach for Prediction of Genomic Alterations from Gene Expression Profiling LNBI 4983 pp. 414-425  Berlin Heidelberg: Springer, 2008  19  H   G e ng J  Iqba l, D e ng X., W   C  C h a n a nd H   H. Ali, "Virtual CGH: Prediction of Novel Regions of Chromosomal Alterations in Natural Killer Cell Lymphoma from Gene Expression Profiling," in Proceedings of the 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS 07 2007, p. 129a \(6 pages 20  LL MPP  L y m phom a  L e uk emia Mole c u la r  Profiling Project 21  R i c h a r d Sim on, A m y  Lam  Ming C hu ng L i  Michael Ngan, Supriya Menenzes, and Y. Zhao, "Analysis of Gene Expression Data Using BRB-Array Tools Cancer Informatics vol. 2, pp. 11-17, 2007 22   F inis hing t h e e u c h rom a tic s e que nc e of the  human genome Nature vol. 431, pp. 931-45, Oct 21 2004 23  S  B e a  M  R i b a s  J  M  H e r n a n d e z  F  B o s c h  M   Pinyol, L. Hernandez, J. L. Garcia, T. Flores, M. Gonzalez A. Lopez-Guillermo, M. A. Piris, A. Cardesa, E Montserrat, R. Miro, and E. Campo, "Increased number of chromosomal imbalances and high-level DNA amplifications in mantle cell lymphoma are associated with blastoid variants Blood vol. 93, pp. 4365-74, Jun 15 1999  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


  11  Raffi P. Tikidjian received his B.S degree in Computer Science from the University of Cal Poly Pomona in 2003 and went on to receive his M.S. degree in Computer Science speci alized in the area of Software Engineering from the University of Southern California \(USC in 2006.  He is presently a member of technical staff for the Reasoning, Modeling, and Simulation Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and a PhD candidate in the Center for Systems and Software Engineering \(CSSE at the University of Southern California \(USC guidance of Dr. Barry Boehm His interests are in the areas of systems health management, simulation and modeling model based engineering technologies, software methodologies and processes, mobile and web application user interface design Doug Abraham is a Senior Engineer within the Architecture and Strategic Planning Office of JPL\222s Interplanetary Network Directorate.  As the Strategic Forecasting Lead, he oversees efforts to forecast future mission customer requirements and trends, assesses their implications for Deep Space Network evolution, and assists in the development of the roadmaps and plans needed to guide this evolution.  Doug also supports NASA HQ-led study activ ities pertaining to future lunar and Mars communications architectures Prior to his current assignment, Doug worked on the Galileo, Ulysses, and Cassini flight projects.  He has also worked on several pre-project formulation activities including Pluto Fast Flyb y and the \223Fire and Ice\224 collaboration with Russia Doug began his career as a graduate student intern in the International Space Station Program Office \(1988 graduated Magna Cum Laude from Texas A&M University in Physics \(1986\.S. in Technology and Science Policy, with specialization in technology assessment and electrical engi neering, from Georgia Tech 1990 Janet Wu received her Bachelor of Science \(2000\.S. \(2002 degrees in Planetary Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, MA She has been a technical staff member in the Optical Communications group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, CA since 2002 


target incoming target incoming target incoming source outgoing Figure 6. EIS System Network View Meta-model operations are those used for service description and must be ultimately decomposed into elementary ones \(i.e. data processing, storing and transferring are estimated through parameter values that are propagated by service invocation parameters to parameters describing application operations constituting the service description which are further propagated to parameters describing elementary operations 4.3. EIS Architecture Design Task Implementation EIS Architecture Design tasks may be supported by existing tools [20]. Systems Modeling Language \(SysML 15] is considered as the most appropriate for EIS System Network model representation and requirement engineering, since it supports the concepts of requirements and resource allocation. As a direct consequence, SysML allows the representation of requirements as model elements which means that requirements are part of the system architecture. For representation purposes, a SysML pro?le for EIS System Network meta-model \(?gure 6 mented as a plugin to MagicDraw modeling tool [2]. In order to facilitate model exchangeability, EIS System Network model is being realized in XML, which is a standard exchangeable format. In order to exchange data with speci?c software tools, model transformations will be accomplished through appropriate XSLTs developed for each tool for example as the one transforming XMI to the EIS System Network document type description \(DTD 5. Case Study In the following we discuss the case of renovating a legacy information system supporting a large-scale public organization based on the proposed concepts. The organization supports more than 350 interconnected regional of?ces and its main purpose is to provide services to the public both citizens and businesses. Regional of?ces are divided into three categories according to their size and information infrastructure requirements \(large, medium and small More than 15.000 employees work in the organization having on-line access to the legacy system. There are more than 300 different services provided to the public, while each citizen is required to register in the one belonging to his/her residential area, called residential of?ce. Some of them require the actual presence of citizens in their residential of?ce Existing system architecture is based on a fat clientserver architecture. All application logic is programmed within the client platform, while data is distributed in local database servers located in each regional of?ce. A Central database is supported in the Datacenter for data synchronization and lookup purposes. The Datacenter and all regional of?ces participate in a private TCP/IP network to facilitate ef?cient data replication. Most data related to a speci?c citizen are maintained as local data in his/her residential of?ce. Client programs access the local database to store data, while they access the central database mostly for lookup purposes. Local data are asynchronously replicated in the central database using a transaction management system \(TMS Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 to facilitate communication with the central database. The central database provides the overall view of each citizen  s record 


record To enhance the level of services provided by the organization, we decided to establish an enhanced e-services environment through an e-government portal. The main target of the portal is to minimize the need for citizen  s presence in regional of?ces and intents to deal with all the drawbacks of the current e-service platform. It provides easy access to citizens and businesses twenty four hours per day, seven days per week. It also promotes the increase of e-services to users, facilitating the organization to accomplish its strategic goals. The portal facilitates on-line transactional services and ensures on-line access to the databases of the legacy information system Provision of transactional e-services re?ects the operation of the legacy system and thus results in its renovation. In order to effectively support both systems \(e.g the portal and the legacy system able to apply the same policies and minimize maintenance cost. Thus, it was decided to explore the renovation of the legacy information system by adopting modern technological trends, such as multi-tiered application architecture server-based computing and light clients. It was decided also to rewrite application code based on J2EE architecture to develop a web interface for the legacy information system in order to support a uni?ed environment for both the legacy system and the portal. This decision affected the legacy system architecture, described in System Network View. Some of issues raised included: \(a database architecture? It is currently distributed. Should it become centralized? What are the implications in the network infrastructure? \(b complished to minimize maintenance cost Though EA was never fully described, the organization had already decided to establish an EA based on Zachman framework a few years ago. RUPmethodology was used for software development, thus application description models were developed within Rational Rose platform. In order to be able to apply the proposed tasks identi?ed in section 4, relative information had to be extracted from the corresponding cells. Application description \(e.g. applications and modules tracted from corresponding Rational Rose ?les. Though the process was not automated, the provision of System Network meta-model, helped architecture designer to identify the information needed to obtain from software designers Detailed service description in terms of load requirements could not be extracted from software description. This was crucial in order to decide upon Intranet and Datacenter architecture. This information was collected by interviewing software developers The new system has to deal with a number of require&lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office oracle L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt tuxido L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department tuxido Central 


tuxido Central lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt R.O. server room lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt oracle net lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt tuxido lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt application lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt Figure 7. Topology View - Existing System ments, with security and availability being the most important ones. Security issues have to do with the security of the network, security of data, authentication control, etc. Availability requirements deal with the backup subsystem, the recovery system and high availability UPS. Privacy must be enforced with the use of cryptography and compression techniques. All these requirements were identi?ed during the System Architecture design process and consequently exported in System Motivation cell where all system requirements are gathered using a simpli?ed text-based requirement description method System Architecture design tasks were performed by existing tools already described in [20]. The existence of System Network meta-model and its implementation in XML facilitated tool integration and interoperability. The identi?cation of primary EIS engineering activities served by Zachman matrix rows and columns facilitated a better understanding between software developers, architecture designers and organization management and enhanced discrete methodology integration. Existing and renovated application architecture of the legacy system de?ned by Topology View are presented in ?gures 7 and 8 respectively. The screenshots are from the MagicDraw [2] tool, enhanced with EIS pro?le to provide the appropriate functionality 6. Conclusions &amp; Future Work MB-EISE process based on Zachman framework was explored in the paper. The designer may adjust basic MB-EISE activity model for each cell, formulate a methodology-independent EIS cell-related view, and ?nally identify methods and tools appropriate for implementing each speci?c task. One could argue that in such a case, 36 distinct EIS sub-views should be de?ned, each of them being rather complex, while basic MB-EISE activity should be adjusted 36 times, resulting in a very complicated process Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Application Server lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt 


lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt web browser lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Web Server lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer &lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt Figure 8. Topology View - Renovated System However, EIS engineering process, as enterprise architecture, is itself complex. The bene?t of the proposed approach is that all aspects \(simple or complex form and modular fashion. Cell-related sub-views and corresponding meta-models, as well as cell-related MB-EISE activity model may be progressively formed according to the designer  s priorities and perspectives Having a black-box view of each Zachman cell, the proposed approach focuses on EIS view integration and interview consistency. The notion of external entities when de?ning EIS cell-related views provides the means for interoperability with external cells, while at the same time facilitates atomicity within the limits of each cell. We are currently emphasizing Business and System rows, and especially Function and Network cells, exploring in parallel Motivation column and the way non-functional requirements are managed Having a white-box view of each Zachman cell, it is evident that the de?nition of a technology neutral metamodel and the identi?cation of basic engineering tasks, corresponding to EIS cell-related views, contributes to the integration of different methodologies and tools. A library of EIS System Network models has been already implemented in XML. Emphasis is given to requirements management and especially requirements derivation References 1] Institute For Enterprise Architecture Developments http://www.enterprise-architecture.info 2] MagicDraw UML. http://www.magicdraw.com 3] A. Aurum and C. Wohlin. Engineering and Managing Software Requirements. Springer, 2005 4] F. S. d. Boer, M. M. Bonsangue, J. Jacob, A. Stam, and L. W N. v. d. Torre. A Logical Viewpoint on Architectures. In EDOC, pages 73  83. IEEE Computer Society, 2004 5] E. R. Byrne. IEEE Standard 830: Recommended Practice for Software Requirements Speci?cations, 1998 6] B. Dave and D. Jim. The new, improved RUP SE Architecture Framework, 2005. IBM Rational Edge 7] D. J. de Villiers. Using the Zachman Framework to assess RUP. Rational Edge, 2001 8] J. A. Estefan. Survey of Model-based Systems Engineering \(MBSE May 2007 9] A. Fatolahi and F. Shams. An investigation into applying UML to the Zachman Framework. Information Systems Frontiers, 8\(2  143, 2006 10] M. Glinz. On non-functional Requirements. 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference, 2007 11] F. Goethals, W. Lemahieu, M. Snoeck, and J. Vandenbulcke. An overview of enterprise architecture framework deliverables. In Banda RKJ \(ed Introduction. ICFAI University Press., 2006 12] H.-P. Hoffmann. Harmony-SE/SysML Deskbook: ModelBased Systems Engineering with Rhapsody, Rev. 1.51 Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 


Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 13] IEEE. IEEE Recommended Practice for Architectural Description for Software-Intensive Systems - Std 1471. Technical report, oct 2000 14] O. M. G. Inc. UML 2.0 Superstructure Speci?cation, October 2004 15] O. M. G. Inc. Systems Modeling Language \(SYSML i?cation. Version 1.0, September 2007 16] INCOSE. INCOSE Handbook SE Process Model, September 2003. http://g2sebok.incose.org 17] Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers. IEEE Std 15288 -2004, Systems Engineering -System Life Cycle Processes, June 2005 18] A. v. Lamsweerde. Goal-Oriented Requirements Engineering: A Guided Tour. In Fifth IEEE International Symposium on Requirements Engineering \(RE  01 19] S. Leist and G. Zellner. Evaluation of current architecture frameworks. In H. Haddad, editor, SAC, pages 1546  1553 ACM, 2006 20] M. Nikolaidou and N. Alexopoulou. Enterprise Information System Engineering: A Model-Based Approach Based on the Zachman Framework. In HICSS  08. IEEE Computer Society, 2008 21] M. Nikolaidou and D. Anagnostopoulos. A systematic approach for con?guring web-based information systems Journal of Distributed and Parallel Databases, 17\(3  290, May 2005 22] C. M. Pereira and P. Sousa. A method to de?ne an Enterprise Architecture using the Zachman Framework. In H. Haddad A. Omicini, R. L. Wainwright, and L. M. Liebrock, editors SAC, pages 1366  1371. ACM, 2004 23] K. Pohl and E. Sikora. Supporting the Co-Design of Requirements and Architectural Artifacts. In 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference \(RE  07 pages 258  261, India Habitat Center, New Delhi, 2007 24] J. Schekkerman. How to Survive in the Jungle of Enterprise Architecture Frameworks: Creating or Choosing an Enterprise Architecture Framework. Trafford, 2003 25] J. F. Sowa and J. A. Zachman. Extending and Formalizing the Framework for Information Systems Architecture. IBM Systems Journal, 31\(3  616, 1992 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





