2005 7th International Conference on Information Fusion FUSION Rule Mining and Classification in Imperfect Databases K K R G K Hewawasam K Premaratne S P Subasingha and M.-L Shyu AbstractA rule-based classifier learns rules from a set of training data instances with assigned class labels and then uses those rules to assign a class label for a new incoming data instance To accommodate data imperfections a probabilistic relational model would represent the attributes by probabilistic functions One extension to this model uses belief functions instead Such an 
approach can represent a wider range of data imperfections However the task of extracting frequent patterns and rules from such a belief theoretic relational database has to overcome a potentially enormous computational burden In this work we present a data structure that is an alternate representation of a belief theoretic relational database We then develop efficient algorithms to query for belief of itemsets extract frequent itemsets and generate corresponding association rules from this representation This set of rules is then used as the basis on which an unknown data 
instance whose attributes are represented via belief functions is classified These algorithms are tested on a data set collected from a testbed that mimics an airport threat detection and classification scenario where both data attributes and threat class labels may possess imperfections Index TermsData imperfections data ambiguities data mining association rules classification DempsterShafer belief theory I INTRODUCTION Unless they are appropriately modeled and accommodated one is compelled to make various assumptions and interpolations to avoid the difficulties associated with data imperfections in a database 
In most practical applications however such a strategy can severely impair the integrity of the decision-making process and yield inferences that are not trustworthy For example in a battlefield object identification scenario one typically has to fuse evidence presented by various All authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Miami 1251 Memorial Drive Coral Gables FL 33146 USA Email k.hewawasamnumiami.edu kamal@miami.edu s.subasingha@umiami.edu and shyu@miami.edu This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation NSF under 
the ITR Medium Grant IIS-0325260 heterogeneous sources to make an informed decision The reliability of sensors their footprints differences in domain expert opinions etc are all sources of data imperfections that have to be properly accounted for For instance data imperfections generated from subjectivity of evidence can be critical ignoring or making assumptions/interpolations regarding such evidence may lead to costly mistakes Lack of better techniques for accommodating data imperfections is in fact a significant hindrance to the application of various computer engineering methodologies in other 
domains 1 The probabilistic relational database model allows probabilistic information to be associated with attributes In our work we use a Dempster-Shafer DS belief theoretic model where each attribute is modeled via its own belief function Such a DS belief theoretic relational database DS-DB provides a very convenient framework for modeling several common types of data imperfections missing data incomplete data and ambiguities generated from lack of evidence to discern among a set of hypotheses More importantly a DSDB can better withstand modeling errors Probabilistic approaches 
require one to make initial assumptions regarding the model e.g independence of events equiprobabilities etc When these are close to reality they perform extremely well otherwise conclusions made can be quite misleading On the other hand DS models are significantly more robust to such modeling errors see 2 and references therein We believe that such a methodology is exactly what is needed in the present context where one may not be able to justify the typical assumptions required for a probabilistic approach However 
discovering interesting patterns and rules from a DS-DB is an enormous challenge because of the potentially crippling computational burden Inspired by the itemset tree concept in 3 the work in 4 proposes a data structure referred to as the belief itemset tree BIT to address this difficulty It however accommodates only data ambiguities a much narrower class of data imperfections see 5 and Table III for the nomenclature In this work we extend the BIT so that it can 0-7803-9286-8/051$20.00 2512005 IEEE 661 


accommodate general belief theoretic data imperfections this generalization gives rise to an efficient association rule mining ARM algorithm enabling one to discover interesting rules hidden in the DS-DB This paper is organized as follows Section II provides a brief review of essential DS notions Section III describes how we model database imperfections within the DS framework and the types of data imperfections that we capture Section IV describes the BIT Section V describes how ARM is performed from the BIT Section VI describes the task of classification Section VII presents experimental results finally Section VIII provides the concluding remarks II DS THEORY A PRIMER A Basic Notions Let e  O\(1  ON  be a finite set of mutually exclusive and exhaustive hypotheses about some problem domain It signifies the corresponding scope of expertise and is referred to as its frame of discernment FoD 6 A proposition Oi referred to as a singleton represents the lowest level of discernible information in this FoD Elements in 20 the power set of E form all hypotheses of interest A hypothesis that is not a singleton is referred to as a composite hypothesis e.g 0\(1 0\(2 From now on the term hypotheses is used to denote both singletons and composite hypotheses We use IE to denote the cardinality of E3 The set A  B denotes all singletons in A C E that are not included in B C E viz A  B o\(i E E a\(i E A 0\(i B A denotes e  A In DS theory the support for any hypothesis A is provided via a basic probability assignment BPA Definition I BPA The mapping m  2E o 0 1 is a BPA for the FoD E iff i m\(0  0 and ii ZACEm M 1 ii The BPA of a hypothesis is free to move into its individual singletons This is how DS theory allows one to model the notion of ignorance The set of hypotheses ZT that possesses nonzero BPAs forms the focal elements of E the triple E Y m is referred to as the corresponding body of evidence BoE Definition 2 Belief Plausibility Given a BoE 0E,Y,m and A C e i B  2  0,1 where BI\(A  ZBCA m\(B is the belief of A and ii P1 2E e 0 1 where P1\(A  1 Bl\(A is the plausibility of A l So while m\(A measures the support assigned to hypothesis A only the belief assigned to A takes into account the supports for all proper subsets of A as well Bl\(A represents the total support that can move into A without any ambiguity P1\(A represents the extent to which one finds A plausible When each focal set contains only one element i.e m\(A  0 VIAI  1 the BPA belief and plausibility all reduce to probability B Evidence Combination The evidence provided by two independent BoEs could be pooled to form a single BoE via Dempster's rule of combination DRC Definition 3 DRC Suppose the two BoEs e,YF T mI i  1 2 span the same FoD E Then if K EC,D:cnD=O ml\(C m2\(D  1 the DRC generates the BPA m 2  0 1 where m A EC,D:CnD=Aml C m2\(D VA C E This combination operation is denoted as m  ml D m2 III REPRESENTATION OF IMPERFECT DATA A Database We denote the database by DB  Ri i  1 nDB where Ri indicates a data record and nDB its cardinality i.e size Each Ri is taken to be of the following form Ri  AVi CLi with AVi  Al,i  AnA,i  1 Here AVi and CLi denote the i-th attribute vector and its corresponding class label Each attribute vector is taken to consist of nA attributes Aj,j j  1 nA denotes the j-th such attribute From now on unless the discussion warrants otherwise we will ignore the subscript that identifies one data record from another i.e R denotes Rj AV denotes AVi and so on B Relevant FoDs 1 Attributes The FoD of Aj j  1 nA is taken to be finite and equal to EA viz FoD[Aj  EAj  o  0AIo  2 where nTA denotes the number of possible values Aj may assume The FoD EAV of each attribute vector AV is then the cross-product of these attribute FoDs viz nA FoD[AV  E  f1 E j=l 3 its cardinality is IEAV  Hlj=l 2eAj We use two BPAs to capture attribute imperfections Definition 4 Intra-BPA Inter-BPA For data record AV  All   I AnAl 662 


i an intra-attribute BPA intra-BPA is a BPA mAj  20 Aj 0,1 defined on the FoD 0Aj and EAj IFAj I mAj  is the intra-attribute BoE intra-BoE it generates and ii an inter-attribute BPA inter-BPA is a BPA MAV  2EAV 9 0,1 defined on the FoD EAV and 9AV YAV MAV is the inter-attribute BoE interBoE it generates D From now on we adopt the convention of an underline to denote the assumed value of a variable For example  AV  AV  where AV  A1   AnA indicates that the attribute vector has assumed the value AV Here Aj C Aj j  1,nA Note that Ai  0 denotes that the attribute Aj is not applicable for the attribute vector 7 We assume that an attribute vector whose attributes are all not applicable this corresponds to the null set of EAV is non-existent To simplify our notation even further we will denote  AV  AV  by simply  AV  whenever no confusion can arise Example Table I shows 04 attribute records and the intra-BPA of each attribute Each attribute record is of the type AV  A1 A2 A3 where E  1 2 3 i  1 3 Inter-BPA for each attribute record is in Table II D TABLE I INTRA-BPA OF EACH ATTRIBUTE IN 04 ATTRIBUTE RECORDS Record 2 2 A1  A1 mA1 m 1 1.0 2 0.6 2.3 0.4 A2 A2 mA2  2 1.0 3 1.0 A3 A3 mA3 A 1 1.0 2 1.0 3 1,2 0.7 1,2 0.6 1 1.0 1,2,3 0.3 3 0.4 4 1 1.0 2 0.7 1 1.0 3 0.3 TABLE II INTER-BPA FOR EACH ATTRIBUTE RECORD IN TABLE I Record 2 1 2 2,3 A1 xA2xA3 x 2 x x 3 x x 3 x 1 2 MAV  1.00 0.60 0.40 3 1,2 x 1,2 x 1 0.42 1,2 x 3 x 1 0.28 1,2,3 x 1,2 x 1 0.18 1,2,3 x 3 x 1 0.12 4 1 x 2 x 1 0.70 1 x 3 x 1 0.30 2 Class Labels The FoD of CL is taken to be finite and equal to OCL ViZ FoD[CL  OCL  OCL\(1   OCL\(nECL 4 where nE0CL denotes the number of different class labels that are to be discerned As for the attributes we allow each CL to be described via its own intra-BPA  ECL YCL mCL}C Types of Imperfections An intra-BPA allows several types of common data imperfections that may occur in a database to be conveniently modeled For example suppose EAi  0\(1 0\(2 0\(3  Then the types of data imperfections that the intra-BPA mA  enables one to model are shown in Table III 5 TABLE III TYPES OF IMPERFECTIONS Type of Data Intra-BPA Hard perfect mAj 9\(2 1 0 Probabilistic mAj 0\(l  0 1 focal elements mAj 0\(2  0-7 are singletons mA 0\(3  0.2 Possibilistic mA 0\(91  0 7 consonant belief mA 0\(1 0\(3 0.2 function mA EA  0.1 Ambiguous MA 1U 9\(2  1.0 value is ambiguous Missing/unknown mAj EAj  1.0 complete ambiguity Belief theoretic ZBCe mAj B  1.0 most general The work in 4 can only accommodate ambiguous data One major contribution of this current work is to extend this to general intra-BPAs D From Intra-BPA to Inter-BPA The intra-BPA captures the uncertainty among the values each attribute may take an Inter-BPA is extremely useful when one is interested in capturing the interrelationship among different attributes Given the intra-BPA for each attribute we may generate an inter-BPA via Definition S Cylinderical Extension 8 Cylindrical extension of  Aj  to E iS CyleAV AJ  E  E  Aj     OA,lA C OAV Consider the intra-BoE E  FA mA  of the j-th attribute Then the following is obvious Lemma 1 M j 2EAV  0 1 where MAV cy AV Aj mAj Aj VAj C 243TAj is a valid inter-BPA We refer to it as the inter-BPA generated from the intra-BPA mA,D Definition 6 Data Record BPA Database BPA Consider the database DB 663  I 11 


i For a given attribute record AV suppose MU denotes the inter-BPA generated from the intra-BPA mAj  via Lemma 1 Then the BPA 8 nA MAV\(B  M  B VB C 0AV j=l is referred to as the data record BPA of the given data record the corresponding BoE is the data record BoE ii Let freq AV  AV be the sum of the BPAs allocated to exactly the attribute vector AV in all the data record BPAs Then the BPA MDB AV  AV f req AV  AV nDB for all AV that may appear as a focal element of at least one data record BPA is referred to as the database BPA of the database DB the corresponding BoE is the database BoE D Example Table II actually gives the data record BPA of each data record in Table I O IV BELIEF ITEMSET TREE BIT In this section the belief itemset tree BIT first introduced in 4 is extended to accommodate general belief theoretic data imperfections Definition 7 Projection Extension For  AV  i its k-projection AV;k is the k-attribute vector  AV;k  where AVNk  Al Akl for k  1,nA and AV'0  0 and ii its k-extension AVtk is the nA-attribute vector  AVtk  where AVtk  AV'k eAA+1   An A F Note that AVto generates the completely ambiguous attribute vector viz A  eA3 Vi  1 nA Definition 8 Ancestor Parent Child Given  AV  let  AV1  AVtk  and AV2  AVtt  Then we say the following i AV1  is an ancestor of  A2  if k  e ii  AV1  is a parent of  AV2  or equivalently  AV2  is a child of  AV1  if  AV1  is an ancestor of  AV2  and k  e 1 we denote this as AVl1 AV2 or AV2\273 AV1  L So an attribute vector can have multiple child attribute vectors it can have only one parent though A Belief Itemset Tree BIT Definition 9 BIT The belief itemset tree BIT of the database DB consists of a set of nodes arranged in a tree structure of nA  1 hierarchical levels The set of nodes in level k referred to as the level-k nodes is denoted by N\(k k  0 nA level-nA nodes are also called the leaf nodes of the BIT Level-k nodes N k correspond to the k-projections generated by only those attribute vectors in DB i For k  1 nA an individual level-k node n E N\(k is identified via the particular value of its k-th attribute and its parent node as n\(k n A\(k n\(k-1 ek C I\(n\(k1 where n\(k is the k-projection n\(k  AV   AV;k  AV;\(k-l  and n\(k-i n k Here I\(n4\(k 1 is an index set it spans over all the distinct k-projections that can be generated from only those attribute records in DB that map via the parent node n k-1 In the BIT branches indicate only these parent-child relationships node corresponding to n\(k indicates its k-th attribute value Ak and a parameter freq n\(k  0 which denotes the sum of masses of attribute vectors that map to n\(k ii Level-O consists of one and only one node N\(\2600 n\(\260 e  1 which corresponds to the completely ambiguous attribute vector and we use the convention n  n\(0 0 0 and f req n\(\260  nDB D An algorithm that enables one to construct the BIT and in general update the current BIT with an incoming arbitrary attribute vector with its own data record BPA appears in Table IV TABLE IV ALGORITHM FOR UPDATING THE LEVEL-k OF THE BIT WITH THE ATTRIBUTE VECTOR AV 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 Insert AttributeVector AV MAV AV k  generate the k-projection AVIk Al   Ak if 3 a branch n 1 Ak-17 i i n AkA n\(k 1 for some 243k E I\(n\(k1 then freq n  freq n\(k  MAV\(AV else  n k1 7\(n kr1 U L where L is a new index create the level-k node n\(k Ak n\(k1  n\(k 1 Ak  with freq\(n k MAV\(AV if k  nA then InsertNewTree n\(4  Insert AV,k  1  InsertNewTree Node N  create a new branch leading from N insert an empty node at its termination  Example The BIT of the data records and their data record BPAs in Table II is in Fig 1 0 664 


A3 IIL L J 2 LJ L 2 Li L2 LJ Fig 1 BIT corresponding to the database in Table II B BIT and Database BoE The following result establishes the relationship between the BIT and the database BoE Its proof is quite similar to the one in 4 Theorem 1 Consider the database DB Then i all attribute vectors with an identical k-projection AV'k map to one and only one level-k node n\(k ii freq n denotes the sum of BPAs of all attribute vectors with an identical k-projection AVWk and iii the database BPA is MDB\(AV  AV  f req AV  AV  freq n nA II This forms the basis which enables the BIT to be used as a very convenient tool for computing the beliefs of itemsets based on the database BPA See Table V TABLE V ALGORITHM FOR COMPUTING THE BELIEF OF THE ARBITRARY PROPOSITION G 1 ComputeBelief Belief B,Proposition G Level k  2 generate the k-projection G0   G1  3 for each tk E nl.1  4 go to node k  n\(k A n\(k-1  Bl E 1 2 1 Note that this requires 07 nodes to be visited 1 A3 L LJ L L2 Li Li 2 iLi Fig 2 Propagation of the query Ql in the BIT in Fig 1 A2 A3 Fig 3 Propagation of the query Ql in the BIT in Fig 1 V ASSOCIATION RULE MINING ARM An association rule is an expression of the form Rant   Rcon where the antecedent Rant and consequence Rcon are sets of attributes The task of association rule mining ARM is to generate all association rules with support and confidence measures above given thresholds 9 10 If attribute and class label imperfections are to be accommodated we must have Rant C eAV and Rcon C eCCL Available methods 9 10 however require that each Rant and Rcon be a singleton e.g  AV1  3  A  AV2  4   CL  1  They are therefore incapable of discovering rules that accommodate imperfections e.g AV1=\(2,3 A AV2=4>==:<CL=\(1,2 ARM in such situations creates several significant challenges For example although neither of the attribute records 2,4 OA3 nor 3,4 OA3 may pass the minimum support threshold on its own when considered together as 2 3 4 OA3 they may prove successful thus potentially generating a useful rule To perform ARM in the presence of such data imperfections we need the following notions 4 665 5 if G A D-h then  6 if G eA Vj  k  1 nA then 7 B B  freq n\(k 8 else  9 go to child node ni\(k n\(^+l Ak+1 n\(k 10 B  B+ComputeBelief B G k  1    11 return B  Example Fig 2 shows how the algorithm in Table V uses the BIT in Fig 1 to respond to the query Ql  Bl 1,2 3 OA3 Note that this requires 02 nodes to be visited Fig 3 shows how the same BIT is used to respond to the query Q2 


 AV often line 16 and this is where the BIT comes in extremely handy B Rule Generation We now need to utilize an appropriate belief theoretic measure to indicate the support we place on each rule in which both attribute value and class label may possess imperfections DS conditional notions are ideal candidates for this 11 and we define the threshold for the confidence in a rule via minCf  BlDB\(RconlRant Rant C AV Rcon C 0CL 5 Although various DS conditional notions are available in the literature for our work we prefer the Fagin-Halpern FH conditionals 12 because they can be considered the more natural extensions of the Bayesian conditional 13 14 We select only those rules that meet this minCf threshold denote this rule set via R1ARM VI CLASSIFICATION The classifier must be able to classify incoming data instances that would possess attribute intra-BPAs 666 A Frequent Itemsets Definition 10 Itemset Support Frequent Itemset Consider AV i It is referred to as a k-itemset if exactly nA k of its feature attributes are equal to their corresponding FoDs Ik denotes the set of k-itemsets by convention Io is the completely ambiguous attribute vector ii BlDB AV  AV is referred to as the support of  AV  and is denoted by Sp AV  AV iii  AV  Ik is said to be frequent if Sp AV  AV  minSp where minSp denotes a user-defined minimum support threshold the set of frequent kitemsets is denoted by FIk 260 Table VI provides an efficient apriori-like algorithm that is capable of generating frequent itemsets in the presence of general belief theoretic imperfections The TABLE VI ALGORITHM FOR GENERATING FREQUENT ITEMSETS FIall DENOTES THE SET OF I in its antecedent it is sufficient to retain only AV1 UAV2 i.e AV1 E FI1 can be considered redundant In other words any frequent 1-itemset that is a strict subset of another frequent 1itemset has to be pruned Line 13 The next step is to form 2-itemsets from the frequent 1-itemsets thus obtained Not all 1itemset pairs produce 2-itemsets For example AV1 n AV2 V I2 while AV1 n A3 C I2 where AV3  EA1 3 EA3   EAnA c Ii Line 16 The frequent 2-itemsets are those that pass minSp value Line 17 This same procedure is followed to generate frequent k-itemsets in general This algorithm calls for the computation of B1DB\(AV  GenerateAmbiguousltemsets\(I Fl1 for each itemset I E AmbiguousIl if BIDB I  minSp then FI1  FI1 U I RemoveRedundantltemsets\(FIi n 1 while FI 0 FIall  FIall U FIn In  GenerateCandidateItemsets\(FIn FIn+l  0 for each itemset I E In+l if BIDB\(I  minSp then FIn+1  FIn+1 U I n ALL FREQUENT ITEMSETS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 GenerateFrequentltemSets  FIall  0 FI1  0 Il  GenerateOneItemsets\(DB for each itemset I E Ii if BIDB\(I  minSp then FI1  FI1 U I AmbiguousIl  n  1 return FIall  salient steps in the algorithm are as follows Line 3 The entire database DB is scanned to find all its 1-itemsets The frequent itemsets that would be eventually generated from these would only consist of those attribute vectors that are present in DB Such a strategy may prevent us from discovering other potentially important rules For example suppose the first attribute of each vector is modeled as a singleton Then with line 3 alone it would be impossible to create potentially interesting relationships with an antecedent having an imperfect first attribute Line 6 To discover such relationships we form imperfect attributes by combining the attributes of nonfrequent 1-itemsets obtained in line 3 Line 8 If these newly formed 1-itemsets turn out to be frequent they are included in FI1 For example if AV1  1 OA2    E V AIi and AV2  2 OA2   EAnA V FIk we would form the 1-itemset AV1 U AV2  1 2 OA2   E line 6 It is now quite possible that AV1 U AV2 C FI1 Line 9 This strategy however may create redundant frequent 1-itemsets For example suppose DB contains the records AV1 and AV1 U AV2 Then AV1 C FI1  AV1 UAV2 E FIk Since Al,1 C All 2 for discovering rules that have Al 


A Rule BPA and Rule Discount Factor Partition ZARM such that the antecedent of each partition is identical Suppose the antecedent of partition R\(k is R k where k  1 K Definition 11 Rule BPA Rule Discount Factor For the partition R\(k define the following i n\(k 2Et.CmLL CL i mCL  2eCL 0.1 s.t ___CL  meDB CL IAVk is the rule BPA and ii d\(k  1  Ent\(k 1  log IAVkl]]1 where Ent\(k ZC kCL CL\(C log m L\(C is the rule discount factor ni One may use the iterative technique in 14 to compute the conditional BPA required for the rule BPA It computes the conditional BPA for each singleton first then it computes the conditional BPA for all doubletons etc This iteration can be terminated when the calculated BPA reaches a preset threshold close to unity the remainder is assigned to the complete set E The quantity Ent\(k accounts for the uncertainty in the rule about the class label while the term 1/\(1  log IAVk I accounts for the ambiguity in the rule antecedent Hence d\(k can be considered a measure of the total uncertainty in the rule In essence each rule in R-ARM can be identified via the triple AVk m\(k d\(k When classifying an incoming attribute vector  AV  with its own intra-BPAs the classifier first needs to generate the corresponding data record BPA as detailed in Definition 6 Then it needs to find a set of rules RAV C iZARM that match  AV  Different criteria may be used for this We used RAV  AVi I m L,d  AV C AVi 6 if RAV  0 we used the classification algorithm in 15 with the distance measure 0.5 AV  AVil  IAVi  AV  The rule BPAs of the rules in RAV are then combined using the DRC with the rule discount factor taken into account 6 The class beliefs thus generated are weighted averaged using the BPAs of corresponding focal elements of the generated data record BPA B Decision Criterion The class beliefs themselves can be considered the decision or one can make a decision on the class label as follows If there exists a singleton class label whose belief is greater than the plausibility of any other singleton class label use the maximum belief with non-overlapping interval strategy 16 to make a hard decision on the class label if such a class label does not exist a soft decision is made in favor of the composite class label constituted of the singleton label that has the maximum belief and those singleton labels that have a higher plausibility value If this strategy leads to decisions that are too ambiguous one can restrict the maximum cardinality of the decision to a pre-determined number and use the maximum belief criterion VII EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS The proposed strategy was applied in a security threat assessment scenario For this purpose an experimental platform located at the Distributed Decision Environments DDE Laboratory in University of Miami is used to mimic an airport terminal The platform is partitioned into a grid of 3 x 3  9 areas Passengers are assumed to pose different threat levels ThreatLevel depending on the properties of what they carry We use 4 different types of emitters to mimic these properties ultrasonic sound light and magnetic The presence of various combinations of these properties or PaxType is sensed using sensors placed at specific locations within the terminal The locations of passengers are tracked by a camera placed above the platform Sensor footprints introduce imperfections into the collected data Data were gathered for two different scenarios SI normal situation where there is no apparent threat and S2 abnormal situation where there can be a potential threat A data record consists of 9 attributes each representing the 9 grid areas Each attribute is described via an intra-BPA defined on the FoD 0PaxType  P1 P2 P3 P4 The threat level for each training set instance is taken to be either Ti or T2 i.e they are perfectly classified Table VII shows the confusion matrix obtained for the experiment when C4.5 and the proposed algorithm are applied The data set had to be slightly modified so that TABLE VII CONFUSION MATRICES FOR C4.5 AND PROPOSED ALGORITHM ThreatLevel C4.5 Proposed Algorithm Tl T2 Ti T2 T1 T2 Tl 141 16 136 6 15 T2 11 118 3 120 6 it could be applied to C4.5 17 The perfect attribute values that C4.5 requires were obtained by applying the pignistic probability 2 on the intra-BPA Note how our proposed strategy allows soft decisions to be made Table VIII compares the time taken to construct the BIT and to run 1000 belief queries on it with the time taken to compute the same belief queries by scanning 667 


TABLE VIII COMPUTATIONAL TIME IN SEC Ambiguities 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 BIT Construction 0.31 0.33 0.38 0.39 0.36 0.34 0.39 0.36 0.39 Querying 0.14 0.17 0.19 0.19 0.20 0.20 0.22 0.22 0.25 Database Scanning 1.97 1.95 1.92 1.95 1.95 1.88 1.88 1.89 1.92 the database Comparison was made on the synthetic threat assessment database used in 4 Computational times were measured for datasets having different levels of ambiguities Note that time consumed in constructing the BIT is a one-time cost for a given database Typically a rule mining algorithm involves computing beliefs of a large number of itemsets and it is evident from the results that the BIT speeds up the process by a significant margin VIII CONCLUSION For modeling and accounting for data imperfections DS belief theoretic notions have attracted considerable attention In this paper we propose the BIT to mitigate the otherwise heavy computational burden that is typically associated with such methods It is in essence an alternate representation of a database that may contain attribute and class label imperfections that are modeled as intra-BPAs It allows one to efficiently respond to belief queries on the attribute vectors The proposed ARM algorithm uses the BIT to extract both perfect and imperfect rules they form the basis on which classification of an incoming data instance is performed Preliminary results show that this algorithm provides high classification accuracy when sufficient evidence is lacking it classifies the input into a soft class In a real threat assessment application various other issues also need to be taken into account e.g under-estimating the threat level can be more harmful than over-estimating there may be situations where human intervention and/or immediate action have to be taken etc To see how the proposed strategy can be used/modified in such situations further studies have to be performed REFERENCES 1 National Science Foundation 2004 IDM 2004 Workshop NSF Information and Data Management Program Arlington VA Online Available http://www.cs.dartmounth.edu idm2004 2 P Smets Practical uses of belief functions in Proc Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence UAI'99 K B Laskey and H Prade Eds San Francisco CA Morgan Kaufmann 1999 pp 612-621 3 M Kubat A Hafez V V Raghavan J R Lekkala and W K Chen Itemset trees for targeted association querying IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering vol 15 no 6 pp 1522-1534 Nov./Dec 2003 4 K K R G K Hewawasam K Premaratne M.-L Shyu and S P Subasingha Rule mining and classification in the presence of feature level and class label ambiguities in Intelligent and Unmanned Systems Intelligent Computing Theory and Applications III ser Proc SPIE Mar./Apr 2005 Defense and Security Symposium 2005 5 P Vannoorenberghe On aggregating belief decision trees Information Fusion vol 5 no 3 pp 179-188 Sept 2004 6 G Shafer A Mathematical Theory of Evidence Princeton NJ Princeton University Press 1976 7 S S Anand D A Bell and J G Hughes EDM A general framework for data mining based on evidence theory Data and Knowledge Engineering vol 18 pp 189-223 1996 8 Z Elouedi K Mellouli and P Smets Classification with belief decision trees in Proc International Conference on Artificial Intelligence Methodology Systems and Applications AIMSA'00 ser Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence S A Cerri  and D Dochev Eds Berlin Germany Springer-Verlag 2000 vol 1904 pp 80-90 9 R Agrawal and R Srikant Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases in Proc International Conference on Very Large Data Bases VLDB'94 Santiago de Chile Chile Sept 1994 pp 487-499 10 R Srikant and R Agrawal Mining quantitative association rules in large relational tables in Proc ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data Quebec Canada June 1996 pp 1-12 11 H Xu and P Smets Reasoning in evidential networks with conditional belief functions International Journal of Approximate Reasoning vol 14 no 2/3 pp 155-185 Feb./Apr 1996 12 R Fagin and J Y Halpern A new approach to updating beliefs in Proc Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence UAI'91 P P Bonissone M Henrion L N Kanal and J F Lemmer Eds New York NY Elsevier Science 1991 pp 347-374 13 P Walley Statistical Reasoning with Imprecise Probabilities London UK Chapman and Hall 1991 14 E C Kulasekere K Premaratne D A Dewasurendra M.-L Shyu and P H Bauer Conditioning and updating evidence International Journal of Approximate Reasoning vol 36 no 1 pp 75-108 Apr 2004 15 J Zhang S P Subasingha K Premaratne M.-L Shyu M Kubat and K K R G K Hewawasam A novel belief theoretic association rule mining based classifier for handling class label ambiguities in Foundations in Data Mining FDM Workshop IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ICDM'04 Brighton UK Nov 2004 16 I Bloch Some aspects of Dempster-Shafer evidence theory for classification of multi-modality medical images taking partial volume effect into account Pattern Recognition Letters vol 17 no 8 pp 905-919 July 1996 17 J R Quinlan C4.5 Programs for Machine Learning ser Representation and Reasoning Series San Francisco CA Morgan Kaufmann 1993 668 


fixed at the linguistic value middle-below and we tested, for three fuzzy regions, the effect of using linguistic terms to express confidence in similar way to the membership functions of minimum support used for level 1 shown in Figure 4, on the number of generated association rules. The results plotted in Figure 13 reveal two important features One of them is that the number of rules decreases, for all cases, as the linguistic confidence threshold increases. The VII. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we proposed a mining approach for extracting interesting multi-cross-level fuzzy weighted rules in a given taxonomy. A top-down progressive deepening technique has been used while mining multi-cross-levels weighted association rules. Also, three important criteria minimum support, minimum confidence and item importance used in determining the interestingness of the rules have been represented by fuzzy sets. So, we obtained more meaningfid rules that are more understandable for human beings. As apart from the studies described in the literature, we defined the concept of weighting internal nodes in a given taxonomy. The experiments conducted on a synthetic database showed that the proposed approach produces consistent and encouraging meaningful results Currently, we are investigating the possibility of combining the approach proposed in this paper with the concept of adjacency lattice for online mining REFERENCES I ]  R Agrawal, T. Imielinski and A. Swami  Mining association NI~S between sets ofitems in large databases  Proe. ofACM SIGMOD. pp 207-216, 1993 121 R. Srikant and R Agrawal  Mining quanlitative association NI~S in large relationaltables  Proc. ofACMSlCMOD, pp. 1-12, 1996 3] RJ. Miller and Y. Yang  Association Rules over Inten,al Data  Proc ofACMSIGMOD, pp. 452.461, 1997 4] B. Lent, A. Swami and J. Widom  Clustering Association Rules   Proc. oflEEEICDE, pp. 220-231, 1997 5] L.A. Zadeh  Fuzzy Sets  In/ormntion and Connol, vol. 8, pp. 338 353, 1965 6] W. Zhang  Mining Fuzzy Quantitative Association Rules  Proc. of IEEE ICTAI, pp. 99-102, 1999 7] K.C.C. Chan and W.H. A    Mining Fuzzy Association Rules: Proc o f . 4 C M C / M ,  pp.209-215, 1997 SI K. Himta and W. Pedrjcz  Linguistic Data Mining and Fuzzy Modelling  Proc. ofEEE-FUZZ, pp. 1448-1496, 1996 9] T.P. Hong, C.S. Kuo and S.C. Chi  Mining Association Rules from Quantitative Data  Inrelligenr Dolo Analysis. vol. 3, no. 5, pp. 363 376, 1999 I O ]  T. P. Hong, M. J. Chiang and S .  L. Wang  Mining from Quantitative Data with Linguistic Minimum Supports and Confidences  Proc. of IEEE-FUZZ, pp. 494-499. 2002 Ill H. Ishibuchi, T. Nakashim and T. Yammato  Fuzzy Association Rules for Handling Continuous Attributes  Proc. of IEEE Inle,aarionolSyn~posium on Indumiol Elecnonics. pp.l18-121,2001 I Z ]  M. Kaya, R. Alhajj, F. Polat and A. Arslan  Eflicient Automated Mining of Fuzzy Association Rules  Proc. qfDEX1, 2002 1131 C.M. Kuok, A.W. Fu and M.H. Wong  Milung fuzzy association rulesin&amp;tabases  SIGMOD Record, Vo1.17,No.l, pp.41-46. 1998 1141 W. Pedrjcz  Fuzzy Sets Technology in Knowledge Discovery   Furzy Sen ondSystems. pp. 279-290, 1998 1151 R.R. Yager  Fuzzy Summaries in Database Mining  Proc. of llre International Confireme 011 Artificial InteIligence/or Application, pp 265-269, 1995 1161 R Snkant and R. Agrawal  Mining generalized association ~ l d   Proc. of VLDE, pp. 407-419, Zurich. Sept. 1995 I71 1. Ha  andY. Fu  Mining Multiple-Level Association Rules in Large Databases  IEEE TKDE. vol. 1 I ,  pp. 798-805, Oct. 1999 IS] T.P. Hang. K.Y. Lin and B.C. Chien  Mining Fuzzy Multiple-Level Association Rules from Quantitative Data  Applied Inrelligence, vol 18, pp. 79-90,2003 


18, pp. 79-90,2003 1191 T.P. Hong, K.Y. Lin and S.L. Wang  Fuzzy data mining for interesting generalized association tules  Fuze Sets and Syslrms, vol 1 3 8 . ~ ~ . 2 . o o . 2 5 5 - 2 6 9 . ~ e n t .  2003. .~ ,.. 1 .  other is that the number of  rules tends to decrease along 1201 S. Yue, el -Mining f U q  NleS items   with the increase in the numbers of fuzzy regions. This is reasonable because a large number of regions will make quantities of an item in different transactions easily scattered in different regions prOe. o j m E s M c , p p .  1906-1911,2000 1211 C.H. Cai, et al  Mining Associalion Rules with Weighted Items   1221 A. Gyenerei  Mining Weighted Association Rules for Fuzzy Quantitative Items  TUCS Technical Report No: 346, May 2000 1231 R Agrawal and R Srikant  Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules  Proe of VLDB, pp. 487499, Sept. 1994 OfrDEAs, PP.68-77. 1998 230 pre></body></html 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


