to multiple radar tracks is presented This work is motivated by the difficulty of associating ESM sensor data with large to closely-spaced radar tracks The algorithm presents a novel approach to fusing identity information It assigns to multiple radar tracks the identity information con 
Identity multiassignment in ESM to radar fusion H Demers Lockheed Martin Canada Montreal Qc Canada hugues.demersglmco.com G Michaud Lockheed Martin Canada Montreal Qc Canada guy.michaudglmco.com D Turgeon Lockheed Martin Canada Montreal Qc Canada daniel.turgeonglmco.com Abstract The development of 
an ESM track 
measurement errors 
an algorithmforfusing 
tent of an ESM track The identity fusion is performed 
to the 
using the Dempster-Shafer rule of combination A weight based on the positional likelihood of association is included in the fusion process Simulations of a group of 
tances are similar 
measurement errors of the ESM sensor are presented Results show that it is possible 
to correctly identify a target within the group in a reasonable time interval without having to wait for the group to completely separate Keywords Data fusion data association multiassignment ESM radar 1 Introduction Active sensors like radars and electronic support 
targets for which angular dis 
measures ESM are two very important sensor types used in fusion 
an easy task The target bearing is the only 
compared to radars In dense environment this 
are relatively inaccurate when 
applications They add complementary information to the tactical picture Radars provides kinematic information about 
sensors has great benefits In general ESM and radar sensors integration sensors however is not 
one positional attribute the target bearing Fusing the information provided by both 
can increase the likelihood of target acquisition improve situation more accurate and complete overall tactical picture Fusing the two common information and ESM bearing measurements 
a target while ESM provides identity information and 
awareness and provide 
measurement is fierce because 
errors are taken into account Thus the main problem facing the fusion system is 
crease significantly the area of uncertainty of the ESM's bearing Many algo 
becomes 
an association is made the only information usually worthwhile of being fused from the ESM 
sensor is the identity information 
as fusing positional information would not in most 
more than 
an environment target contention for ESM 
one of association in one target falls into the 
as one ESM report may overlap many targets when measurement 
a dense and noisy environment Once 
cases de 
a problem a radar track In such 
error on the position of 
rithms exist to handle this contention The joint probabilistic data association 1 is used to track multiple targets by evaluating the measurements-to-track association probabilities and combining them to find the state estimate The multiple hypothesis MH association 1 is a more powerful but much more complex algorithm Whereas standard sequential processing approach makes a hard association decision after each data set is received the MH algorithm generates and evaluates a number of candidate association hypotheses as more and more data is received Thus the capability of using later measurements to aid prior correlation is allowed Another approach is multi-dimensional association algorithms These algorithms associate 
the measurements from the last S-I frames S-dimensional association denoted S-D with established tracks by solving a global constrained optimization problem 2 S-D association has been shown to be a practical and feasible alternative to MH without the limitation of exhaustive enumeration 3 Kirubarajan et al propose a multiassignment algorithm for tracking a large number of overlapping targets 3 They are relaxing the one-to-one constraint imposed in the conventional 2-D assignment Usually measurements are associated to one and only one target and targets are associated to one and only one measurement However this constraint is reasonable in sparse scenarios where 
targets are well separated and the sensor resolution is greater than the target separation It is no longer valid when measurements from one target cannot be distinguished from those of another as seen from the sensor This is precisely the case of bearing-only measurements where the sensor measurement errors are large and overlapping often occurs in dense regions Their algorithm allows more than one measurements to be associated to a target and vice-versa They use an iterated procedure with successive 2-D assignments of decreasing size to solve one-to-many and many-to-one assignment problem In this paper we present a 
novel algorithm for assigning the identity information of one ESM report to many radar tracks and using the Dempster-Shafer theory of evidence to combine weighted pieces of identity information This multiassignment algorithm has been motivated by the problem of ESM-radar fusion with the following constraints  the errors on the bearing measurement of an ESM report are large  the bearing is the only common attribute between ESM and radar  the fused identity has to be stable over a reasonable time interval  the ESM-radar fusion has to occur within a reasonable time interval often smaller than target separation times 


 Xm t  gm t  T em t I The target separation time is defined as the time needed for the angular separation of two tracks to become greater than the ESM angular errors The stability criteria is related to the reliability that a fusion engine must have Without a correct and stable identity the system is judged unreliable In the following the term association represent the definitive one-to-one binding between a sensor's data and a fused track The term assignment is used to represent the distribution of some or all of a sensor's data to more than one fused track because no association has taken place The next section gives a brief overview of the DempsterShafer theory used here to combine information The description of the fusion problem follows Section 4 presents two multiassignment algorithms and results are presented in section 5 Conclusions are drawn in section 6 2 Dempster-Shafer theory The Dempster-Shafer evidential theory is used here to combine information 5 6 7 This theory can be interpreted as a generalization of probability theory where probabilities are assigned to sets of event as opposed to mutually exclusive individual events Unlike the Bayesian theory it does not require prior probabilities and has the capability of expressing ignorance explicitly The exhaustive set of mutually exclusive events of a particular experiment is termed the frame of discernment 9 The set of all subsets of 9 is called the power set 2e Let 2i be an element of 2e The basic probability assignment function r1 assigns a number 7 Pi 2[0 1 such that E 7\(Pi 1 1 pice r1\(0 0 where 0 is the empty set The quantity q\(Pi is called the mass of 2i and represents the exact belief in the proposition depicted by Pi Dempster-Shafer theory proposes a rule by which distinct pieces of evidence are combined Let Pj and Pk be elements of 2\256 representing propositions from two independent sources of information 11 and 12 with q'i and r/12 their respective basic probability assignment functions The rule is called the orthogonal sum 1\(P12 1l1 T,l2T11S Pi  r r12 1 K ll i 1l2 Pk P3 nPk P where K E 11 2Pj Pk 3 Pj nPk 0 is called the conflict It normalizes to measure of belief committed to 0 In the present work the frame of discernment is defined by all NE possible detectable platform's hypotheses  1  XN0  4 A proposition Pi 29 is one the total portion of belief exactly committed to Pi to compensate for the 9 2 i C P{Xl  7 a disjunction of elements of N0 X ul U 2 I  5 where I is called the ignorance and is defined as the disjunction of all elements of 9 At time t sensor I makes an observation and reports its belief as a basic probability assignment function l The time dependence is written explicitly from now on to emphasize the fact that a particular sensor usually reports over time on an observation with different masses Thus the identity information is embodied into q1 and in the following is referred as the identity To prevent any counter-intuitive results in the face of significant conflict 4 we ask that all sensors provide j1 1  0 3 Multisensor fusion problem The ESM sensor sends its internal track data sequentially in time to the fusion engine An ESM track is denoted by Sn n  1   N where n is the sensor track number and N is the total number of ESM tracks The ensemble of ESM tracks is the track list S Each track is represented by a bearing O t and a basic probability assignment function r1n,t carrying the identity information The basic probability assignment function is built from a finite set of emitters seen on a target and from their respective confidence assigned by the sensor Each reported emitter Si is translated into a proposition Pi C 2e whose element Hj of the disjunction represents all platforms carrying emitter Si Thus specifying the ESM sensor with I e an ESM track is given by Sn ttn On\(t Tn,t I}\(6 An ESM track is usually created for each emitter seen on a target As a consequence there exists a one-to-many relationship between a target and ESM tracks The fusion of an ESM track and a radar track called a fused track is denoted by m,n m  1    M where m is the fused track number and M is the total number of fused tracks Each track from the fused track list 7 is represented by its fused identity information rym and its sufficient statistics which given that radar positional measurements were fused using a standard Kalman filter are the state estimates xm t and the associated covariances orm t Assuming that the only identity information is coming from the ESM sensor I e we have for a fused track 7 The problem of ESM-radar fusion in a dense and noisy environment is exemplified by the typical scenario shown in Fig 1 Five closely spaced surface targets with different identities are located far away from an observing aircraft carrying the ESM sensor and the radar At that distance the l1\(-error area of uncertainty of the ESM sensor is covering more than one target The simplest single scan method of associating an ESM track to a fused track is to compute a likelihood of association based on the bearing of both tracks and to fuse the pair having the highest likelihood When however the above scenario is considered the ESM track could be associated with any fused tracks that are within the area of uncertainty delimited by the bearing's measurement errors The association cannot be optimally determined on a single measurement TM  f tm 


2 Validation is required to limit the number of and to prevent physically unlikely associations with d2m  On _Onm On Om 12 where On and 0m are the bearings of ESM track Sn and fused track Tm and Cm is the residual covariance matrix of Tm A likelihood is computed each time a new identity is to be fused hence the time-dependence in Eq 11 For clarity however it is not written explicitly in the following Fused track Tm should be kept as a candidate assignments if Anm  Amax AA 13 where Amax is the maximum likelihood out of all Anm and AA is chosen to reflect the ESM sensor measurement's errors The remaining M fused tracks are to be assigned the identity information of ESM track Sn subject to Wnm The association having Anm Amax is the most probable one and the following identity assignment should receive the greatest weight The following formula is used to compute weights Wnm e A Anma 14 The previous equation guarantees that the assignment to the most probable association receives a weight of 1 and that all others decreases rapidly toward 0 In summary when the identity information Tr,t from ESM track Sn is received the simple multiassignment is carried out as follows 1 Eq 11 is used to compute a likelihood Anm for each valid fused track 2 Using Eq 13 M fused tracks are selected 3 For each selected track a weight Wnm is calculated using Eq 14 4 The identity qjt is fused into each selected track Tm using Eq 8-10 The scheme just described does not address the case of Pi t I 10 track creation A fused track should be created from an ESM track whenever no validated fused track have been information of the selected or when the maximum likelihood Amax is smaller iation of the ESM than a threshold A the identity fusion This method has the advantage of being simple and rapid Sn really belongs of execution It improves upon the single assignment case by giving a stable and correct identity in most scenarios  fused tracks that It has however shortcomings It does not have the abild to compute the ity to decide that an identity was incorrectly assigned and identification in a correct the situation by un-fusing this information from a set of fused tracks track In the case where the ESM sensor reports dependent f the ESM sensor information Eq 8 repeatedly fusing this information artifieach fused track's cially increases the confidence in the resulting identity Fitracks The assonally it does not prohibit the mass increase of an element of or this selection 2e coming from the fortuitous and undesirable intersection r bearings 0n and of two or more independent pieces of identity information to the association This problem arises when two or more emitters are indepen1 dently reported and those emitters by chance are all found on a detectable platform The hypothesis Hi C e repre\(11 senting the platform having those emitters will be fused each time one of those are reported This has the effect candidate associations of increasing the hypothesis mass even though the corresponding platform might not be present The hypothesis Hi an ESM track to Figure 1 Scenario representing a typical ESM-radar fusion problem in a dense environment The dot represents the starting point of each platform and the inset is a zoom of the top-left part 4 Multisensor fusion using multiassignment 4.1 Simple multiassignment Identity multiassignment is defined as the process of assigning an identity to more than one fused track At time t the identity Tle t of ESM track Sn is to be fused into M  M tracks Tm such that fe 8 Tlm,t  errors C and with the uncertainty associated with position must be chosen out of all valid ciation's likelihood is the measure used fi Assuming Tm,t1 Tn,t where Tln,t  WnmTnTn,t 9 To make sure that Eq 1 is satisfied we set the mass of the ignorance to 1e\(1 1e\(i 1iZi Pt Eq 8 describes the update of the identity i fused trackTm 1  Tm by the inform track t The weight Wnm carries into t process the likelihood that an weight Wnm In order to achieve correct reasonable amount of time the smallest consistent with the measurement a Gaussian distribution foi O?mn the likelihood function corresponding of ESM track Sn with fused track Tm is 1 d2 Anm\(t a fused track m.The problem then remains to select M should be assigned the identity rnt 


resulting from the intersection of independently reported emitters is fortuitous and undesirable because its mass is artificially increased by Eq 8 repeated fusing of the same information 4.2 Time-integrated multiassignment The solution to the aforementioned problems is to replace Eq 8 by another one that does not repeatedly fuse the same identity information This is achieved by keeping a list of the most recent ESM track's identities that were assigned to a fused track Whenever an ESM track gets updated the corresponding identity qnt in each fused track's list is replaced by the new one and each affected fused track's identity Tlm t is recomputed from the contributing identities present in the list at that point in time Let Lm be the list of contributing identities qnt that were assigned to track Tm in its lifetime Lm  fq1,t q1,t was assigned to m 15 At time t  1 the ESM sensor sends new information t1nt+l This identity replaces the old one rtjn in each list where it is present All tracks Tm that had its list Lm changed is updated according to the following TIM t elunm/1nrm t 16 rICL with Wnm given by Eq 22 This is simply the DempsterShafer's rule of combination applied successively to each identities in the list Lm and replaces Eq 8 in the identity fusion process The key point to this method is the fused track identity being recreated each time one of its contributor changes The problem of fortuitous and undesirable intersection of independent pieces of identity information is still present but much decreased in intensity because no information is repeatedly fused into the final identity Similarly the problem of fusing dependent information disappears A fused track is now defined with one more element Tm tm Xm t 7m t T'e t LTm 17 By integrating over time the positional information given by a likelihood Anm it is possible to decide whether an assignment is still valid and to un-fuse the corresponding identity when it is deemed incorrectly assigned It is a simple matter to un-fuse information just be removing a contributor from the list Lm and computing a new identity Tje t Dempster-Shafer's rule of combination is used to integrate over time the likelihoods The set of all association's likelihoods for a given ESM track is taken as an expert's opinion on the feasibility of each association Each likelihood Anm is scaled in the range 0 1 to produce a mass for the given association Let e be the frame of discernment defined by all possible association's hypotheses for an ESM track Sn oe  X  XXe XM 18 where M is the total number of fused track Tm and 7H\(m is the hypothesis that Sn belongs to Tm Because an ESM track should belong to one and only one fused track the disjunction of elements of e has no meaning Hence the set 2e9 is identical to Oe and He n He 0 i 7t j Whenever an ESM track is updated a basic probability assignment function noted Pn,t is built from the association's likelihood in the following manner The likelihoods Anm of all valid tracks are calculated using Eq 11 A subset T of those tracks are selected as by the simple multiassignment method using Eq 13 and their likelihoods are scaled by 1 Pnt\(IT ZM Anm 19 where Pn,t I  0 is the mass of the ignorance and is set to a small number M is the number of selected track Tm C T The function Pn,t for the assignment of ESM track Sn to a fused track Tm is given by pn,t  anAnm Tm T 0 TM V T 20 with He C 296 The previous definition of an ESM track Eq 6 is augmented to include the new basic probability assignment function 21 The time-integrated positional information given by the belief of p,,t is the basis for the weight w of Eq 16 22 n Pn,t Hm maxi pn,t Hie This equation guarantees that the assignment corresponding to the most probable association receives a weight of 1 and that all others decrease toward 0 The weight calculated here carries into the identity fusion process the belief resulting from the combined likelihood over time that an ESM track really belongs to a fused track The time-integrated multiassignment is defined by the two changes described above the inclusion of a list of contributing identities to a fused track and the addition of a basic probability function to an ESM track giving the belief of association to each fused track 5 Results The algorithms described above were tested on the scenario shown in Fig 1 In this example the aircraft situated in the bottom right corner observes five targets all within detection range of both the radar and the ESM sensor There are four ships and a submarine and they each have one emitter that uniquely identifies them The bearing errors are 0.0042 radians for the radar and 0.025 radians for the ESM sensor For the ranges involved in this scenario the area of uncertainty of the 2cr-error of an ESM report centered on the Knox covers all targets The frame of discernment 9 is composed of N\256  135 different platforms consisting of ships and aircrafts The ESM sensor reports its belief on one platform's hypothesis Hi at a time hence any proposition Pi C 2\256 that is a disjunction of elements of 9 has Trjt Pi  0 This situation is equivalent as having a power set composed of simple propositions 2\256  Xl1   YN,HN I The mass of each Sn  f tn  On t Tl'n t Pn t I  


 t 11 I  1  1 gnment Grisha corrE Mirka 0 1 00 200 300 400 500 600 Time s Figure 2 Mass of identity propositions as a function of time for the ship having a ground truth of Grisha for the single assignment simple multiassignment and time-integrated multiassignment observation Pi i is set to Tle,t 0.8 with the remaining belief assigned to the ignorance Tet\(I  0.2 Fig 2 shows all fused identity proposition's mass as a function of time for the ship having a ground truth of Grisha for the single assignment the simple multiassignment and the time-integrated multiassignment The prevailing fused identity proposition at any time is the proposition having the highest mass The single assignment algorithm associates an ESM track to the fused track having the highest association likelihood The belief of the identity to be fused is unweighted This kind of association is arbitrary whenever any ship is within measurement errors of any other one A particular fused track thus receives multiple conflicting identities each having a belief of 0.8 This gives rise to rapid variations in the identity proposition's masses top panel of Fig 2 This behavior is not desirable because the identity is unstable and thus unreliable over a short period of time The simple multiassignment produces stable slowly varying masses The Grisha proposition is prevailing except for an inversion between 240 and 300 seconds where the Mirka aligns itself with the Grisha as seen from the observer As the alignment occurs identity propositions from both targets are assigned to both fused tracks in equal numbers Eventually the Mirka and the Grisha start to separate and the correct identity gets restored The inversion is unfortunate however because the knowledge prior to the alignment is lost The mean mass of the Grisha proposition is 0.75 between 100 and 600 seconds The time-integrated multiassignment solves the problem of the alignment by accumulating in the form of a reinforced likelihood the positional information The correct identity is prevailing for the whole scenario time The mean mass of the Grisha proposition between 100 and 600 seconds is 0.64 Although it is lower in this case it is still above 0.5 and no inversion ever occurs It is interesting that for this particular scenario where targets are uniquely identified by one emitter number the fused identity's mass in the case of the time-integrated multiassignment is limited to 0.8 It cannot increase over that limit for two reasons a new identity qnt is replaced instead of fused in the list Lm and the intersection of any two propositions from 29 is the empty set Pi n Pj 0 for i t j The former is prescribed by the algorithm and the latter is a peculiarity of the simulated ESM sensor reporting on only one platform's hypothesis at a time When all elements of Lm are fused no identity qnt C Lm reinforce each other because each one assign a non-null mass to one proposition only corresponding to a simple hypothesis Hi The time-integrated multiassignment algorithm shows that it is possible to deduce the correct identity of a target within a closely spaced group for which angular distances are similar to the measurement errors of the ESM sensors This is achievable within a reasonable time interval without having to wait for targets to separate completely Fig 3 shows the fused identity proposition's masses as a function of time for the center ship the Knox The improvement is visible for the first two algorithms but is less clear for the time-integrated multiassignment There are two inversions occurring in the case of the simple multiKnox Krc-Ke rch I I I I 


Single:\\6:signme-Ft Mirl orr EDrc h 0 1 00 200 300 400 500 600 Time s Figure 3 Mass of identity propositions as a function of time for the ship having a ground truth of Knox for the single assignment simple multiassignment and time-integrated multiassignment assignment one between 70 and 170 seconds and the other between 200 and 240 seconds There is only one inversion for the time-integrated multiassignment finishing at 140 instead of 170 There is no other inversion Although there is a period of confusion between the Knox and the Typhoon around 400 seconds this is still better than an inversion The downside of the time-integrated algorithm is its lack of confidence in the belief of its identity proposition From 100 to 600 the mean belief of the correct identity is only 0.55 as opposed to 0.73 for the simple multiassignment The Knox however is aligned with the Typhoon and they are both difficult to separate The time-integrated multiassignment is a slow-converging but cautious algorithm 6 Conclusions Two algorithms for assigning the identity information of one ESM report to many radar tracks were presented The identity content of an ESM report is multiassigned to a selected group of tracks Using the Dempster-Shafer theory of evidence it is fused with previously received information using a weight based on the positional likelihood of association It is shown that the resulting target identity is stable over a reasonable period of time It is converging toward the correct identity in scenarios of closely-spaced targets where the angular distance between ships is similar to the angular measurement errors of the ESM sensor The simple multiassignment quickly provides a correct identity but has shortcomings regarding stability and in dealing with dependent information The time-integrated multiassignment is preferred in most cases as it is stable and robust with respect to dependent ESM reports References 1 S.S Blackman Multiple-target tracking with radar application Artech House 1986 2 T Kirubarajan H Wang Y Bar-Shalom and K.R Pattipati Efficient multisensor fusion using multidimensional data association IEEE Trans On Aerospace and Electronic Systems 37\(2 386-398 Apr 2001 3 T Kirubarajan Y Bar-Shalom and K.R Pattipati Multiassignment for tracking a large number of overlapping objects IEEE Trans on Aerospace and Electronic Systems 37\(1 2-21 Jan 2001 4 L.A Zadeh Review of books A mathematical theory of evidence The AI magazine 5\(3 81-83 1984 5 G Shafer A Mathematical Theory of Evidence Princeton University Press 1976 6 D.L Hall and S.A.H McMullen Mathematical Techniques in Multisensor Data Fusion Artech House 2004 7 J.D Lowrance and T.D Garvey Evidential Reasoning A Developing Concept Proceedings of the International Conference on Cybernetics and Society IEEE 6-9 1982 


my mcdor    lday mcdow day mndol Figure 6 Change of similarity for the adaptive system with different sliding window lengths 5 Conclusion We presented an adaptive framework for an intru sion detection system that uses fuzzy association rule mining We introduced technical issues that need to he addressed to develop an adaptive intrusion detection system The framework was supported by some encour aging experimental results We showed that false alarms are issued if the profile is not changed at all or is always changed regardless of the traffic pattern There was one occasion when our new system issued a false positive that we could not explain One drawback of the data collection process was that we assumed that the first week\222s data that was used to build the initial profile represented normal activities only There was no way knowing if abnormal behavior had occurred If it did it was incorporated as a part of the normal behavior There are some issues that we plan to investigate in the future We worked with only a single profile In an actual working environment it would he necessary to develop different profiles for different times of the day or different periods of the week e.g weekends For example we can have two different profiles for a sin gle day, one for daytime hours, one for nighttime hours Again we have not addressed the problem where a time window contains both intrusive data and non-intrusive data representing a behavioral change We need to perform some drill-down operations to individual rules to distinguish between intrusive and non-intrusive pat terns There is also another area in which adaptation could be applied The system performance is sensitive to the fuzzy parameter values The system in its cur rent status works with a static set of fuzzy membership function parameters determined at the Keginning But these values could also be tuned dynamically References l R Agrawal T Imielinski and A Swami 223Min ing association rules between sets of items in large databases\224 Proc SIGMOD\22293 Washington D.C May 2628 1993 pp 207-216 2 R Agrawal and A Swami 224Fast algorithms for mining association rules\224 Proc VLDB\22294 Santi ago Chile September 12-15, 1994 pp 487-.199 131 S Bridges and R Vaughn 223Fuzzy data mining and genetic algorithms applied to intrusion detec tion\223 Proc 23rd Nat\222l Information Systems Secu rity Conf Baltimore MD October 16-19 2000 4 D Cheung J Han V Ng and C Wong 223Main tenance of discovered association rules in large databases An incremental updating technique\224 Proc ICDE\22296 New Orleans LA February 26  March 1 1996 pp 106-114 5 D Cheung S Lee and B Kao 223A general incre mental technique for updating discovered associa tion rules\222\222 Proc DASFAA\22297 Melbourne Aus tralia April 1-4 1997 pp 185-194 6 M Hossain 223Data mining approaches for intrusion detection Issues and research directions\223 Proc IASTED SEA\2222000 Las Vegas NV November 6 9 2000 pp 205-210 71 W Lee S Stolfo and K Mok 223Mining audit data to build intrusion detection models\224 Proc KDD\22298 New York City NY August 27-31 1998 pp 66-72 SI W Lee and S Stolfo 223Data mining approaches for intrusion detection\224 Proc 7th USENIX Security Symp SECURITY 22298 San Antonio TX Jan uary 2629 1998 pp 79-94 191 J Luo and S Bridges 223Mining fuzzy association rules and fuzzy frequency episodes for intrusion de tection\224 Int J intelligent systems Vol 15 No 8 pp 687-703 2000 lo R Mukkamala J Gagnon and S Jajodia 223Inte grating data mining techniques with intrusion de tection\224 Proc 13th Ann IFIP WG 11.3 Working Conf on Database Security Seattle WA July 26 28 1999 ll L Nandlal N Sarda, and V Srinivq 223An a,dap tive algorithm for incremental mining of association rules\224 Proc DEXA\22298 Vienna Austria August 24-28 1998, pp 240-245 12 C Rainsford M Mohania and J Roddick 221\221Incre mental maintenance techniques for discovered clas sification rules\224 Proc CODAS\22296 Kyoto Japan December 5-7 1996 pp 281-284 13 S Thomas S Bodagala K Alsabti and S Ranka 223An efficient algorithm for the incremental upda tion of association rules in large databases\224 Proc KDD\22297 Newport Beach, CA, August 14-17 1997 pp 263-266 3103 


Confidenee  0 ote  i U 0 pmoFe MM,atOW 1 Normnalized number 0  X r ofoccuerence C Fig 8 Increasing or decreasing of the confidence of a track From 1 the confidence Y-coordinate is reported 2 3 on the equivalent normalized number of event X-coordinate Then we decrease or increase the value 4 and report it on the confidence axis 01~~~~~~~~~~1 0 2 0.4 eo 0.8 normalized number of occurrence Fig 9 From the figure 8 template curves are generated with Bezier functions That allows to have pessimistic   0.5 or optimistic D  0.5 strategies for the tracking VIII CONCLUSION We have presented the Gruyer and Royere framework This tool allows to realize a tracking with a management of tracks appearance and disappearance In this framework the decision is taken according to a global belief criteria This decision is good when the conflict is weak but if it is not the case some local suspicious associations can appear We present in this article a method based on a MHT approach to avoid these suspicious associations Two tree generation strategies have been developed The proposed system allows to filter the false alarms Thus the higher levels are not aware of these false alarms but by an internal MHT treatment the system keeps the suspicious targets and analyzes them in the time with the use of virtual objects REFERENCES 1 R K Ahuja T L Magnanti and J B Orlin Network Flows Theory Algorithms and Applications Prentice-Hall 1993 2 A Appriou Multi-signal discrimination by the belief theory De'cision et reconnaissance des formes en signal Traite IC2 Information Commande Communication Edition Hermes 2002 Fig 10 The global system can took two different decisions according two different procedures The decision in the informative mode removes the suspicious association whereas the internal mode keeps this association in order to treat them 3 Y Bar-Shalom Multi-target Multi-sensor tracking  Applications and Advances vol.II Artech House 1992 4 Y Bar-Shalom Multitarget-Multisensor tracking Applications and Advances voLIII Artech House 1999 5 S Blackman and R Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House 1999 6 D Gruyer and V Cherfaoui Multi-objects association in perception of dynamical situation In Fifteenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence Stockholm Sweden 30 July I August 1999 7 D Gruyer C Royere and V Cherfaoui Heterogeneous multicriteria combination with partial or full information In Fusion Cairns Australia July 2003 8 S Jouannin Data association and fusion Application to localization and tracking with embedded intelligent vehicle radar PhD thesis university Blaise Pascal of Clermont-Ferrand 1999 9 H W Kuhn The hungarian method for assigment problem Nay Res Quart 2 1955 10 M Rombaut Decision in multi-obstacle matching process using dempster-shafer's theory In AVCS'98 pages 63-68 Amiens France 1998 11 C Royere D Gruyer and V Cherfaoui Data association with believe theory In Fusion Paris France July 2000 12 V Schmidlin Multi-sensors muti-targets tracking with neurals networks Application to air targets PhD thesis Nice-Sophia Antipolis University 1994 13 Ph Smets Belief functions In Non-standard logics for automated reasoning pages 253-286 Academic Press Londres 1988 E.MAMDANI H.DuBoIs et H.PRADE 14 Ph Smets Belief functions the disjunctive rule of combination and the generalized bayesian theorem International Journal of Approximate Reasoning 9:1-35 1993 15 Ph Smets Managing the combination of conflicting belief functions 2004 16 Albena Tchamova Jean Dezert Tzvetan Semerdjiev and Pavlina Konstantinova Target tracking with generalized data association based on the general DSm rule of combination In Per Svensson and Johan Schubert editors Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Information Fusion volume I pages 392-399 Mountain View CA Jun 2004 International Society of Information Fusion 929 


 170 0.411 0.384 0.493 0.397   180 0.569 0.611 0.472 0.486   190 0.494 0.553 0.529 0.588   200 0.314 0.372 0.267 0.314   Avg. 0.379 0.413 0.406 0.443  The comparison of average precision of top-20 on ten topics is listed in Table 4. The measures of keyword-based models \(tfidf and pr number of 0.4. Whereas the figures of pattern-based models \(PTM-1 and PTM-2 be over 0.5. This implies that both PTM models improve the precision of the top returned documents Table 4. Average precision of top20 ranked documents on the ten topics  tfidf Pr PTM-1 PTM-2   Avg. 0.400 0.406 0.505 0.515  Figure 3 illustrates the effect of introducing the pattern-based methods on the P/R curves on the topic 110, which can represent the trend of all topics. In Figure 3, as the PTM models are applied, their P/R curves lift up and indicate the improvement of performance made by the PTM models 6. Related work and conclusion Mining sequential patterns has been extensively studied in data mining community since the first research work in [1]. The earlier studies which focused on the large size of retail datasets have developed several Apriorilike algorithms in order to solve the problem of discovering sequential patterns from such databases However, the Apriori-like algorithms only perform well in databases consisting of short frequent sequences [17 This is caused by the fact that it is quite time-consuming to generate nTerms sequences candidates from \(n1 disadvantage of Apriori-like algorithms [1], a variety of algorithms such as PrefixSpan [17], SPADE [25 SLPMiner [22] and GST [12] have been proposed. In order to improve the efficiency, each algorithm pursues a different method of discovering frequent sequential patterns, which makes them featured by the capability of mining such patterns without even generating any candidates With respect to the representation of the content of documents, some research works have used phrases rather than individual words [21]. However, the effectiveness of the text mining systems was not improved very much. The likely reason is that, a phrasebased method has  lower consistency of assignment and lower document frequency for terms  21]. Hence, in this paper, we present a novel concept for mining text documents for sequential patterns. Instead of using single words, we use pattern-based taxonomy to represent documents. By pruning meaningless patterns which have been proven to be the source of the  noise   in this study, the problem of  overfitting  is solved and the experimental results which show the encouraging outcomes are achieved 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Recall Pr e c is 


is io n PTM-2 PTM-1 Pr tfidf Figure 3. Precision/Recall curves on Topic110 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE Some future research works can be conducted based on the results of this research. To improve the accuracy one major direction is to extract and use the interesting information from negative or unlabeled documents. The weighting scheme of discovered patterns can then be optimized References 1] R. Agrawal, and R. Srikant  Mining sequential patterns  Proceedings of Int. Conf. on Data engineering \(ICDE  95 pp. 3-14 2] H. Ahonen, O. Heinonen, M. Klemettinen, and A I. Verkamo  Applying data mining techniques for descriptive phrase extraction in digital document collections  Proceedings of the IEEE Forum on Research and Technology Advances in Digital Libraries \(ADL  98 1998, pp. 2-11 3] M. L. Antonie and O. R. Zaiane  Text document categorization by term association  ICDM02 Maebashi City, Japan, 2002, pp. 19-26 4] Y. Bi, T. Anderson, S. McClean  A rough set model with ontologies for discovering maximal association rules in document collection   Knowledge-Based Systems vol.16, 2003, pp. 243251 5] G. Chang, M.J. Healey, J. A. M. McHugh, and J T. L. Wang, Mining the World Wide Web: an information search approach, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001, pp. 192 6] D. A. Evans, et al., CLARIT experiments in batch filtering: term selection and threshold optimization in IR and SVM Filters, TREC02 2002 7] R. Feldman, et al  Text mining at the term level  Lecture Notes in AI 1510: Principle of data mining and knowledge discovery, SpringerVerlag, 1998, pp. 65-73 8] R. Feldman and H. Hirsh  Mining associations in text in presence of background knowledge   KDD96, 1996, pp. 343-346 9] D. A. Grossman and O. Frieder, Information retrieval algorithms and heuristics, Kluwer Academic publishers, Boston, 1998 10] K. M. Hammouda and M. S. Kamel  Phrasebased document similarity based on an index graph model  Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 pp. 203-210 11] J. D. Holt and S. M. Chung  Multipass algorithms for mining association rules in text databases  Knowledge and Information Systems vol.3, 2001, pp. 168-183 12] Y. Huang and S. Lin  Mining sequential patterns using graph search techniques  Proceedings of the 27th Annual Int. Computer Software and Applications Conf. \(COMPSAC  03 2003, pp. 4-9 13] Y. Li, C. Zhang, and J. R. Swan  An information filtering model on the Web and its application in 


filtering model on the Web and its application in JobAgent  Knowledge-based Systems 13\(5 2000, pp. 285-296 14] B. Liu, Y. Dai, X. Li, W. S. Lee, and P. S. Yu  Building text classifiers using positive and unlabeled examples  ICDM03, 2003, pp. 179186 15] B. Liu, Y. Ma, and Philip S. Yu, Discovering business intelligence information by comparing company Web sites, in: N. Zhong, J. Liu and Y Y. Yao \(eds  Web Intelligence  SpringerVerlag, 2003, pp. 105-127 16] J. Mostafa, W. Lam, and M. Palakal  A multilevel approach to intelligent information filtering: model, system, and evaluation  ACM Transactions on Information Systems 15\(4 1997, pp. 368-399 17] J. Pei, J. Han, B. Mortazavi-Asl, H. Pinto, Q Chen, U. Dayal, and M. Hsu  PrefixSpan Mining sequential patterns efficiently by prefixprojected pattern growth  Proceedings of Int Conf. on Data Engineering \(ICDE  02 Heidelberg, Germany, 2001, pp. 215-224 18] M. F. Porter  An algorithm for suffix stripping   Program 14\(3 19] S. Robertson and I. Soboroff, The TREC 2002 Filtering Track Report, NIST Special Publication: SP 500-251 \(TREC-2002 20] T. Rose, M. Stevenson, and M. Whitehead  The Reuters Corpus Volume1 - From yesterday  s news to today  s language resources  Proceedings of the 3rd Inter. Conf. on Language Resources and Evaluation, Las Palmas, Spain 2002 21] F. Sebastiani  Machine learning in automated text categorization  ACM Computing Surveys Vol. 34, No.1, 2002, pp. 1-47 22] M. Seno and G. Karypis  SLPMiner: An algorithm for finding frequent sequential patterns using length-decreasing support constraint   Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int. Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 23] P. Tzvetkov, X. Yan, and J. Han  TSP: Mining top-K closed sequential patterns  ICDM03 2003, pp. 347-354 24] X. Yan, J. Han, and R. Afshar  CloSpan: mining closed sequential patterns in large datasets   Proceedings of SIAM Int. Conf. on Data Mining SDM 03 177 25] M. Zaki  SPADE: An efficient algorithm for mining frequent sequences  Machine Learning vol. 40, 2001, pp. 31-60 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


