html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">A  Dichotomous Algorithm for Association Rule Mining T.-Y. Jen1, R. Taouil2, D. Laurent3 1. IT Department, HELP Institute, BZ-2, Pusat Bandar Damansara Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia jenty@help.edu.my 2. LI, Universit  de Tours, 3 place J. Jaur  s, 41000 Blois France taouil@univ-tours.fr 3. LICP, Universit  de Cergy-Pontoise, 95302 Cergy-Pontoise, France dominique.laurent@dept-info.u-cergy.fr Abstract The analysis of large amounts of data requires important computing resources that may not be available, even in current environment, and there are traditionally two main ways for solving this problem. The first is to use multi-processor machines, and the second is to use computer clusters. The main drawbacks of these solutions are the expensive cost of machines and their specific utilization. In order to avoid these drawbacks distributed algorithms for mining association rules have been proposed. However, these algorithms either run high-synchronous methods or lack flexibility to be adapted to machines with limited available resources. In this paper, a distributed dichotomous algorithm \(DDA is proposed for association rule mining. The main features of DDA are that this algorithm does not require a high level of synchronization and that it does not process data replication and redundant calculations. In addition, DDA can partition recursively the tasks and the data set so as to be processed by machines with limited available resources 1. Introduction Since the amount of collected data to be mined is often very large in data mining procedures, parallel mining algorithms are required. The design of parallel mining algorithms in the environment of multi-processors machines or in the environment of computer clusters has motivated several research works \(for example [2, 3, 4, 7 8, 10 are the expensive cost of machines and their specific utilization for data mining tasks. Hence, it is interesting to implement a parallel algorithm in a non-specific environment, in which computers are connected by a network and used for everyday work. In such an environment, the implemented algorithm works at idle time of these computers, for example during the night or during the weekend The main problem for implementing such an algorithm is that the resources are diverse and limited. Existing distributed algorithms \(for example [2, 10 well to this kind of environment because of the following reasons: the required resources are generally important the level of synchronization is high, and data replication as well as redundant calculations are necessary In this paper, we propose a new algorithm, called distributed dichotomous algorithm \(DDA the problems just mentioned. DDA works without data replication and redundant calculations, and moreover, the required degree of synchronization is low. Additionally the flexibility of DDA allows to partition recursively the tasks and the data set until they fit the limited resources of computers The organization of the rest of this paper is the following. Section 2 gives a brief review of association rule mining and the Apriori algorithm [1], which is the core of most algorithms for association rule mining. The introduction of several existing distributed algorithms for association rule mining is also included. The algorithm DDA is presented in Section 3, and Section 4 concludes with a presentation of our ongoing works 2. Related work 


2. Related work 2.1 Problem statement We recall from [1] the basic concepts and terminology of association rule mining. Let I = {i1  il} be a set of Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications  DEXA  04 1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE N TXY items. Let D be a database consisting of a set of transactions, where each transaction T consists of a unique identifier \(tid that T_items ? I. Given an itemset X ? I, a transaction T contains X if X ? T_items An association rule is an implication of the form X  Y, where X ? I, Y ? I and X ? Y = ?. The association r u l e  X    Y  h o l d s  i n  D  w i t h  c o n f i d e n c e  c  i f  t h e probability that a transaction in D which contains X also c o n t a i n s  Y  i s  c   T h e  a s s o c i a t i o n  r u l e  X   Y  h a s  s u p p o r t  s in D if the probability that a transaction in D contains both X and Y is s. More formally, the support and the c o n f i d e n c e  o f  a  g i v e n  a s s o c i a t i o n  r u l e  X    Y   d e n o t e d  b y s u p  X   Y   a n d  c o n f   X   Y   r e s p e c t i v e l y   a r e  d e f i n e d  a s follows s u p  X   Y     a n d  c o n f   X   where N is the total number of transactions and where TXY and TX denote respectively the number of transactions containing X ? Y and the number of transactions containing X. The ratios \(TXY /N TX /N called the support of X ? Y and the support of X respectively The task of mining association rules is to find all the association rules whose support is greater than a userspecified minimum support threshold and whose confidence is greater than a user-specified minimum confidence threshold. An itemset X is large \(or frequent if its support is greater than the minimum support threshold. An itemset of size k is called a k-itemset, and we recall that all subsets of a large itemset are large The main task in association rule mining is to find all large itemsets, since all association rules whose support and confidence are greater than the corresponding thresholds can be generated from the large itemsets without having to access the data set 2.2 Apriori algorithm The Apriori algorithm [1] is now recognized as a standard that is used as the basis in many other algorithms that aim at improving the performance of the computation Since our algorithm DDA is based on the Apriori algorithm, we briefly recall it below Apriori Algorithm Input: a dataset D Output: All large n?itemsets Begin Compute the set L1 of all large 1?itemsets i = 2 While Li?1 ? ? do Generate Ci from Li?1 Ci = new candidate itemset of size i Prune Ci from Li?1 For all transaction T ? D do Increment the count of all candidates in Ci that are contained in T Li = { c ? Ci | c is large i = i+1 End while Return ?i Li End We also recall that there are two principal data layouts for association rule mining task: the horizontal data layout and the vertical data layout. The data set of 


layout and the vertical data layout. The data set of horizontal data layout consists of a set of transaction identifiers \(tid items contained in this transaction. On the other hand, in vertical data layout, a data set consists of a set of items associated with a tid-list. The tid-list for each item is the list of transaction ids that contain this item 2.3 Distributed data mining algorithms Several distributed algorithms have been proposed for association rule mining \(for example [2, 3, 4, 10 9], surveys of these algorithms are presented. These algorithms can be generally classified in three types count distribution algorithm, data distribution algorithm and itemset clustering algorithm. The basic concepts of these algorithms are the following Count distribution algorithm The data set is partitioned horizontally and distributed to each processor. All processors generate the complete set of k?itemset candidates Ck from the set of large n?1 independently Ck with its local data set of the partition Next, the processors exchange their local counts concerning Ck to get the global counts We note that all processors must synchronize to get the global counts. Since only the local counts of candidates are exchanged among the processors, the communication in the network is largely reduced Nevertheless, the algorithm does not use the memory of each processor efficiently, since each processor is used for counting the same candidates at the same time Data distribution algorithm Instead of counting the same candidates, each processor in the data distribution algorithm counts mutually exclusive candidates. In order to obtain the X XY T T Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications  DEXA  04 1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE global counts of the candidate n?itemsets, each processor has to broadcast its local data to all other processors As a consequence, in spite of its efficient use of memory, the data distribution algorithm requires a high degree of synchronization and processes to data exchanges between the machines Itemset clustering algorithm In this kind of algorithms, large itemsets are computed separately by different clusters. Clusters are formed form different criteria, such as prefixes in [2] or potential maximal large itemsets in [10]. The information related to each cluster is gathered together in order to facilitate the computing The main advantage of the itemset clustering algorithm lies in the asynchronized computing of large itemsets among the processors, but at the cost of data replication and redundant computation among the processors 3. General Dichotomous Distributed Algorithm 3.1 Partitions of itemsets The essential idea of our algorithm is to partition the sets of candidate itemsets. The set L1 = {i1  in}, of all large 1?itemset is first partitioned into two or three subsets \(according to the parity of the cardinality of L1 Those subsets are then used to partition the set of all k?itemsets \(for a given k &gt; 1 Assuming that we have two machines M1 and M2 for computing the large itemsets, it is then possible to distribute the information related to the sets of candidates 


distribute the information related to the sets of candidates at any level n so that no redundant computation occurs We illustrate our method in the following example Example 1 Let us consider the following set of large 1?itemsets L1 = {a, b, c, d, e In this case, we partition L1 into three subsets A, M, and B such that A = {a, b}, M = {c} and B = {d, e}. The tid-lists associated to a, b and c \(c, d and e, respectively assigned to M1 \(M2, respectively 2?itemsets are partitioned so that ab, ac, bc, ad and ae are assigned to M1 and de, cd, ce, bd, and be are assigned to M2. The way this partitioning is processed is explained later on in this section Note that M1 can process independently all large itemsets built up form items a, b or c and that M2 can process independently all large itemsets built up form items c, d or e. Moreover, the information concerning d and e is transferred from M2 to M1 for generating ad and ae. Similarly, the information concerning b is transferred from M1 to M2 for generating bd and be We emphasize that the introduction of the set M is necessary for balancing the tasks of each machine. The detail of such request can be found in [5 As in the Apriori algorithm, the candidate itemsets are considered according to a fixed order in L1 denoted by &lt;i Then, L1 is partitioned into three sets A, B, and M as follows if n = 2*m is even, let A = {i1  im}, B = {im+1   i2*m} and M otherwise, assuming n = 2*m+1, let A = {i1  im M = {im+1}, and B = {im+2  i2*m+1 For the sake of simplification, our presentation will concentrate on the case where n = 2*m+1. Note that the presentation is valid for the case of n = 2*m by dropping the statements concerning M Let k be an integer such that 1 ? k ? n, and let Ik be the set of all k?itemsets that can be obtained from the items in L1. Then the following sets form a partition of Ik A1  Ak = {?1  k | ?j, 1 ? j ? k, ?j?A A1  Ak?1M = {?1  k | ?j, 1 ? j ? k?1, ?j?A, ?k?M A1  ApB1  Bk?p = {?1  k | ?j, 1 ? j ? p, ?j?A, ?j p+1 ? j ? k, ?j?B} for 1 ? p ? k?1 A1  ApMB1  Bk?1?p = {?1  k | ?j, 1 ? j ? p, ?j?A p+1?M, ?j, p+2 ? j ? k, ?j?B} for 1 ? p ? k?2 MB1  Bk?1 = {?1  k | ?1?M, ?j, 2 ? j ? k?1, ?j?B B1  Bk = {?1  k | ?j, 1 ? j ? k, ?j?B Hence, if M is non-empty, there are 2*k+1 sets in the partition of k?itemsets, and in the case where M is empty there are k+1 sets in the partition of k?itemsets. We order these sets as follows A1  Ak &lt;P A1  Ak?1M &lt;P A1  Ak?1B1 &lt;P A1  Ak?2MB1 &lt;P A1  Ak?2B1B2 &lt;P  lt;P A1B1  Bk?1 &lt;P M B1  Bk?1 &lt;P B1  Bk Example 1 \(continued Recalling that we previously considered the following set of large 1?itemsets L1 = {a, b, c, d, e with A = {a, b}, M = {c}, B = {d, e}, and for k = 2, we have A1A2 = {ab}, A1M = {ac, bc}, A1B1 = {ad, ae, bd, be MB1 = {cd, ce}, B1B2 = {de Moreover, in this case, we have: A1A2 &lt;P A1M &lt;P A1B1 &lt;P MB1&lt;P B1B2 3.2 Dichotomous Distributed Algorithm One of the main features of our algorithm is to balance the workload of the machines involved in the computation. To this end, the sets of k?itemsets defined Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications  DEXA  04 1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE 


1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE earlier are assigned to each machine M1 and M2 so as they both have the same number of candidates to process Considering the case where M is not empty, we recall that we have 2*k + 1 such sets. Therefore, we assign the first k sets in the partition to M1, and the last k sets to M2. The k+1 cardinality, each of them being assigned to one machine It can be seen that the \(k+1 the form A1X1  Xk?1 where X is either A or M or B according to the value of k. The two subsets of A1X1  Xk?1 are denoted \(A1X1  Xk?1 A1X1  Xk?1 meaning that \(A1X1  Xk?1 A1X1  Xk?1 We now give an abstract version of our algorithm called Distributed Dichotomous Algorithm \(DDA only one machine, and in the case where we have an odd number of large 1-itemsets. The full version of the algorithm can be found in [5], and we recall that the case of an even cardinality of large 1?itemsets can be obtained by deleting the parts containing the set M \(since M = ? in this case layout Distributed Dichotomous Algorithm \(DDA Input M1 \(Machine 1   am} and a set M = {m M2 \(Machine 2   bm} and a set M = {m where m is a large 1?itemset and a1 &lt;i  lt;i am &lt;i m &lt;i b1 &lt;i  lt;i bm for an order &lt;i Output All large n?itemsets related to A ? M ? B The computations by M1 are not presented here, see [5 for a complete version of the algorithm For M2 Begin i = 1; // i is the length of itemset M2Li = M ? B; // Large i?itemsets in M2 While M2Li ? ? do Case of i = 1 Transfer {a4k+2, a4k+3 | ?k, 0 ? k &lt; m/4 from M1 generateCandidates\(M2Li+1 pruneVerifyCandidates\(M2Li+1 i = 2 Transfer A1M and \(A1B1 generateCandidates\(M2Li+1 pruneVerifyCandidates\(M2Li+1 i = 2*k+1 \(k ? 1 generateCandidates\(M2Li+1 Ask \(A1  AkMB1  Bk  Ak+1B1  Bk from M1 PruneVerifyCandidates\(M2Li+1 i = 2*k \(k &gt; 1 generateCandidates\(M2Li+1 Ask \(A1  AkB1  Bk  AkMB1  Bk?1 from M1 PruneVerifyCandidates\(M2Li+1 End case i = i+1 End while Return ?i M2Li End The procedure generateCandidates generates the candidate itemsets as in Apriori \(an \(n+1 candidate ?1  n+1 is generated from two large n?itemsets 1  n?1?n and ?1  n?1?n+1 that differ only on their last item with k &gt; 1, for the sets \(A1  AkB1  Bk 


with k &gt; 1, for the sets \(A1  AkB1  Bk A1  Ak?1MB1  Bk, and when n = 2*k+1 with k &gt; 1, for the sets \(A1  AkMB1  Bk  AkB1  Bk+1 For example, according to the method in Apriori, the generation of the \(2*k+1 A1  AkMB1  Bk 2*k in the set A1  AkMB1  Bk-1, that is stored in M1. In addition, the \(2*k+1 A1  AkB1  Bk+1 in M2 are generated form the large \(2*k itemsets in the set A1  AkB1  Bk, and half of this set A1  AkB1  Bk reduce the dependency and data communication between machines, the candidates in the sets \(A1  AkMB1  Bk and A1  AkB1  Bk+1 are generated from the data in M2 only as follows: an \(n+1  n+1 is generated from two large n?itemsets ?1?3  n+1 and 2?3  n+1 that differ only on their first item. With this modification, the candidate itemsets in \(A1  AkMB1  Bk can be computed from A1  Ak?1MB1  Bk in M2, and the candidates in A1  AkB1  Bk+1 can be obtained from A1  Ak?1B1  Bk+1 in M2. The same principle can also be applied to the generation of candidate itemsets in A1  AkB1  Bk  Ak?1MB1  Bk with k &gt; 1 The aim of the procedure Ask is to obtain from the other machine the information concerning certain large itemsets in order to prune the itemset candidates. For example, the call by M2  Ask \(A1  AkB1  Bk A1  AkMB1  Bk-1 from M1  allows M2 to know from M1 all large itemsets from the sets \(A1  AkB1  Bk A1  AkMB1  Bk-1 for pruning the candidates in A1  AkMB1  Bk  AkB1  Bk+1. It is important to note that a call to this procedure does not result in the transfer of tid-lists. Only the identifiers of the large itemsets are transferred. On the other hand, such a transfer Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications  DEXA  04 1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE occurs in the calls of the procedure Transfer, but in this case, the tid-lists associated to the corresponding itemsets are also transferred. Note however that such calls are only necessary for getting large 2? and 3?itemsets Since every itemset is associated with its tid-list, the verification of a \(n+1 intersection of the tid-lists associated with the two large n?itemsets that generate it. We also recall that DDA does not transfer any tid-list between machines for finding large n?itemsets for n ? 4, and that only some of these sets need additional information for pruning. Moreover, if this additional information from the other machine obtained by the procedure Ask, cannot arrive in time DDA calculates directly the large itemsets with the concerned tid-lists. In this case, however, it may happen that some pruning is not performed. As a consequence, we claim that DDA does not require a high level of synchronization and does not process to important data transfer. Furthermore, it is worth noting that, since we partition the itemsets at each level, DDA does not proceed to redundant computations, i.e. all itemsets are processed by one machine, only The following proposition states that our algorithm DDA is correct and complete, in the sense that all large itemsets are computed. The details of the proof can be found in [5 Proposition - DDA is correct and complete It is important to note that our method also allows considering more than two machines. Indeed, the different sets of itemsets to be processed can be partitioned recursively in order to adapt to machines whose available resources are limited. We recall in this respect that there is no such flexibility in the itemset clustering algorithm Moreover, in these algorithms, the reduction of 


Moreover, in these algorithms, the reduction of synchronization level is possible, but at the cost of an increase of data replication and of redundant calculations which is not the case in our approach Concerning the count distribute algorithm and data distribute algorithm, they can adapt to diverse machine resources. However, contrary to our approach, their level of synchronization is high, which causes a significant reduction of their performance in highly distributed environments 4. Conclusion In this paper, the distributed dichotomous algorithm DDA association rule mining. The main features of our algorithm are that it does not require a high level of synchronization and that it works without data replication and redundant calculations. In addition, thanks to its flexibility, it can be applied to environments in which available computing resources are limited We are currently working on the implementation of the algorithm in different environments. Moreover, we shall compare the efficiency of DDA with other existing algorithms mentioned in this paper. We also pay attention to possible optimizations of the algorithm under different network environments. For example it is well known that the policy of data transfer depends on the network technology: in the presence of hubs, the information is transferred to all machines, whereas in the presence of switches, the information is transferred to the receivers only. It is clear that these different environments may have an impact on the way information transfer can be optimized in our algorithm References 1] Agrawal R. et al  Fast Discovery of Association Rules  Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, U Fayyad et al., eds., AAAI Press, Menlo Park, Calif., 1996 2] R. Agrawal and J. Shafer  Parallel Mining of Association Rules  IEEE Trans. Knowledge and Data Engineering, Vol. 8 No. 6, Dec. 1996, pp. 962  969 3] D. Cheung et al  A Fast Distributed Algorithm for Mining Association Rules  Proc. 4th Int  l Conf. Parallel and Distributed Information Systems, IEEE Computer Soc. Press Los Alamitos, Calif., 1996, pp. 31  42 4] E.-H. Han, G. Karypis, and V. Kumar  Scalable Parallel Data Mining for Association Rules  IEEE Trans. on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Vol. 12, No. 3, 2000 5] T.-Y. Jen., R. Taouil, and D. Laurent  A dichotomous algorithm for association rule mining  Research Report No 264, Computer Sciences Laboratory of Tours, Universit  de Tours, France, 2002 6] M. V. Joshi, E.-H. Han, G. Karypis and V. Kumar  Efficient Parallel Algorithms for Mining Associations  Largescale Parallel and Distributed Data Mining, M. Zaki and C.-T Ho eds. LNCS/LNAI Vol. 1759, Springer-Verlag, 2000 7] A. Mueller  Fast Sequential and Parallel Algorithms for Association Rule Mining: A Comparison  Tech. Report CS-TR3515, Univ. of Maryland, College Park, Md., 1995 8] T. Shintani and M. Kitsuregawa  Hash Based Parallel Algorithms for Mining Association Rules  Proc. 4th Int  l Conf. Parallel and Distributed Information Systems, IEEE Press, Los Alamitos, Calif., 1996, pp. 19  30 9] M.J. Zaki  Parallel and Distribute Association Mining : A Survey  IEEE Concurrency, Dec. 1999, pp. 14-25 10] M.J. Zaki et al  Parallel Algorithms for Fast Discovery of Association Rules  Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, Vol. 1, No. 4, 1997, pp. 343-373 Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications  DEXA  04 1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE 


1529-4188/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


 170 0.411 0.384 0.493 0.397   180 0.569 0.611 0.472 0.486   190 0.494 0.553 0.529 0.588   200 0.314 0.372 0.267 0.314   Avg. 0.379 0.413 0.406 0.443  The comparison of average precision of top-20 on ten topics is listed in Table 4. The measures of keyword-based models \(tfidf and pr number of 0.4. Whereas the figures of pattern-based models \(PTM-1 and PTM-2 be over 0.5. This implies that both PTM models improve the precision of the top returned documents Table 4. Average precision of top20 ranked documents on the ten topics  tfidf Pr PTM-1 PTM-2   Avg. 0.400 0.406 0.505 0.515  Figure 3 illustrates the effect of introducing the pattern-based methods on the P/R curves on the topic 110, which can represent the trend of all topics. In Figure 3, as the PTM models are applied, their P/R curves lift up and indicate the improvement of performance made by the PTM models 6. Related work and conclusion Mining sequential patterns has been extensively studied in data mining community since the first research work in [1]. The earlier studies which focused on the large size of retail datasets have developed several Apriorilike algorithms in order to solve the problem of discovering sequential patterns from such databases However, the Apriori-like algorithms only perform well in databases consisting of short frequent sequences [17 This is caused by the fact that it is quite time-consuming to generate nTerms sequences candidates from \(n1 disadvantage of Apriori-like algorithms [1], a variety of algorithms such as PrefixSpan [17], SPADE [25 SLPMiner [22] and GST [12] have been proposed. In order to improve the efficiency, each algorithm pursues a different method of discovering frequent sequential patterns, which makes them featured by the capability of mining such patterns without even generating any candidates With respect to the representation of the content of documents, some research works have used phrases rather than individual words [21]. However, the effectiveness of the text mining systems was not improved very much. The likely reason is that, a phrasebased method has  lower consistency of assignment and lower document frequency for terms  21]. Hence, in this paper, we present a novel concept for mining text documents for sequential patterns. Instead of using single words, we use pattern-based taxonomy to represent documents. By pruning meaningless patterns which have been proven to be the source of the  noise   in this study, the problem of  overfitting  is solved and the experimental results which show the encouraging outcomes are achieved 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Recall Pr e c is 


is io n PTM-2 PTM-1 Pr tfidf Figure 3. Precision/Recall curves on Topic110 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE Some future research works can be conducted based on the results of this research. To improve the accuracy one major direction is to extract and use the interesting information from negative or unlabeled documents. The weighting scheme of discovered patterns can then be optimized References 1] R. Agrawal, and R. Srikant  Mining sequential patterns  Proceedings of Int. Conf. on Data engineering \(ICDE  95 pp. 3-14 2] H. Ahonen, O. Heinonen, M. Klemettinen, and A I. Verkamo  Applying data mining techniques for descriptive phrase extraction in digital document collections  Proceedings of the IEEE Forum on Research and Technology Advances in Digital Libraries \(ADL  98 1998, pp. 2-11 3] M. L. Antonie and O. R. Zaiane  Text document categorization by term association  ICDM02 Maebashi City, Japan, 2002, pp. 19-26 4] Y. Bi, T. Anderson, S. McClean  A rough set model with ontologies for discovering maximal association rules in document collection   Knowledge-Based Systems vol.16, 2003, pp. 243251 5] G. Chang, M.J. Healey, J. A. M. McHugh, and J T. L. Wang, Mining the World Wide Web: an information search approach, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001, pp. 192 6] D. A. Evans, et al., CLARIT experiments in batch filtering: term selection and threshold optimization in IR and SVM Filters, TREC02 2002 7] R. Feldman, et al  Text mining at the term level  Lecture Notes in AI 1510: Principle of data mining and knowledge discovery, SpringerVerlag, 1998, pp. 65-73 8] R. Feldman and H. Hirsh  Mining associations in text in presence of background knowledge   KDD96, 1996, pp. 343-346 9] D. A. Grossman and O. Frieder, Information retrieval algorithms and heuristics, Kluwer Academic publishers, Boston, 1998 10] K. M. Hammouda and M. S. Kamel  Phrasebased document similarity based on an index graph model  Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 pp. 203-210 11] J. D. Holt and S. M. Chung  Multipass algorithms for mining association rules in text databases  Knowledge and Information Systems vol.3, 2001, pp. 168-183 12] Y. Huang and S. Lin  Mining sequential patterns using graph search techniques  Proceedings of the 27th Annual Int. Computer Software and Applications Conf. \(COMPSAC  03 2003, pp. 4-9 13] Y. Li, C. Zhang, and J. R. Swan  An information filtering model on the Web and its application in 


filtering model on the Web and its application in JobAgent  Knowledge-based Systems 13\(5 2000, pp. 285-296 14] B. Liu, Y. Dai, X. Li, W. S. Lee, and P. S. Yu  Building text classifiers using positive and unlabeled examples  ICDM03, 2003, pp. 179186 15] B. Liu, Y. Ma, and Philip S. Yu, Discovering business intelligence information by comparing company Web sites, in: N. Zhong, J. Liu and Y Y. Yao \(eds  Web Intelligence  SpringerVerlag, 2003, pp. 105-127 16] J. Mostafa, W. Lam, and M. Palakal  A multilevel approach to intelligent information filtering: model, system, and evaluation  ACM Transactions on Information Systems 15\(4 1997, pp. 368-399 17] J. Pei, J. Han, B. Mortazavi-Asl, H. Pinto, Q Chen, U. Dayal, and M. Hsu  PrefixSpan Mining sequential patterns efficiently by prefixprojected pattern growth  Proceedings of Int Conf. on Data Engineering \(ICDE  02 Heidelberg, Germany, 2001, pp. 215-224 18] M. F. Porter  An algorithm for suffix stripping   Program 14\(3 19] S. Robertson and I. Soboroff, The TREC 2002 Filtering Track Report, NIST Special Publication: SP 500-251 \(TREC-2002 20] T. Rose, M. Stevenson, and M. Whitehead  The Reuters Corpus Volume1 - From yesterday  s news to today  s language resources  Proceedings of the 3rd Inter. Conf. on Language Resources and Evaluation, Las Palmas, Spain 2002 21] F. Sebastiani  Machine learning in automated text categorization  ACM Computing Surveys Vol. 34, No.1, 2002, pp. 1-47 22] M. Seno and G. Karypis  SLPMiner: An algorithm for finding frequent sequential patterns using length-decreasing support constraint   Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int. Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 23] P. Tzvetkov, X. Yan, and J. Han  TSP: Mining top-K closed sequential patterns  ICDM03 2003, pp. 347-354 24] X. Yan, J. Han, and R. Afshar  CloSpan: mining closed sequential patterns in large datasets   Proceedings of SIAM Int. Conf. on Data Mining SDM 03 177 25] M. Zaki  SPADE: An efficient algorithm for mining frequent sequences  Machine Learning vol. 40, 2001, pp. 31-60 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


