html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">2004 IEEE  lntemational Conference on Systems, Man and Cybemetics Improving the Museum  s Service by Data Mining and Location-aware Approach Yo-Ping Huang Department of Computer Science and Engineering Tatung University Taipei, Taiwan 10451 R.O.C yphuang@ttu.edu.tw Abstract - Rapid growth of Zntemet access from mobile users put much emphasis on location specific informatian Some of researchers fried to provide prampt information through the tour guide access lag, However, evaluating ubiquitous computing systems and their impact on a target population is d@cuIt and costly because it requires analyzing real users in a real context. In this paper, we propose a guide system that combines the positioning technique and location-awareness service to provide the surrounding information far users. The guide system not only accepts the user  s search query to find the target but also receives the informatian from other users who took notes during the tour guide. That is, users can donnload the related notes as references that were previously recorded hy other users. Under such a design concept the cantents of our guide system will keep on improving such that an interactive leaming environment will be gradually established. Our purpose is thus to develop a Museum  s service tour guide system and test its effectiveness in a real-world scenario, at reasonable cosis using available fechnologv. The experimental results show ihat our proposed model is not only particularly suitable to scenic introductions in the museums, hut also can he easily extended to outdoor teaching for students Keywords: Guide System, Location-aware, Tablet PC Data Mining, Context-aware I Introduction One of the fundamental attributes of location-aware systems [I], [2] is that they react not only to the users   input but also contextual events from the users   environments. For instance, the location-aware system utilizes location in order to tailor the information presented to the user [3]. The designers need to carefully balance the way in which the guide system reacts to environmental triggers. The location-aware visitor guides have two key altemative approaches that could be adopted when the user change his or her location, which are the passive mode and the active mode. The passive mode would have to wait for the user to pull the location-aware content. The implication with this approach is that the system would leave the currently displayed content unchanged despite the fact that the content may have Wei-Po Chuang Department of Computer Science and Engineering Tatung University Taipei, Taiwan 10451 R.O.C webber@fuzzy.cse.ttu.edu.tw become inconsistent with the user  s current location. On the contrary, the active mode is able to push the location aware content to the user in order to reflect his or her new location In the traditional guide systems, users usually rely on narrators to learn the related information. However sometimes users do not know the correct name or only remember part of the characteristics of the object Therefore, relying on narrators or the traditional guide mode is not suitable for today  s information guide systems Some visitors may find it difficult to understand what the narrator has explained about the contents of an exhibit because they cannot stand close enough to look at the exhibit. Furthermore, if a visitor wants to know more information about certain exhibits, how and where to fmd 


information about certain exhibits, how and where to fmd the information in the museum is also a big question Therefore, how to design a simple, flexible, and easy to use system for museum  s guide is the target of our research In this paper, we utilize the association rules mining to form the infrastructure of our guide system. The guide system will record all the tour behaviors of users in the system log files such that the back-end system can use these log files to analyze the popular exhibits in the museum. Based on the mining results, the guide system can thus show related exhibits immediately via using the active model and location-aware service while users are touring in the museum 2 The Purpose of the Proposed System The original guide system only considered one approach for managing the presentation of context-aware information. More specifically, this approach was ostensibly based on information pull whereby the onus would be on the user to request the presentation of context-aware information by, for instance, tapping on the floor and area in the museum [4]. The push-based approach was adopted for two of reasons. First, we cannot use GPS to position the users  current location in the indoor environments. Secondly, this approach seems to match the kind of interaction that takes place when using a guidebook for the task of exploring and learning about a museum 0-7803-8566-7/04/$20.00 Q 2004 IEEE 2646 The overall architecture of the proposed system is shown in Fig. 1. The back-end guide mechanism of the Tablet PC is the intelligent retrieval model. By this mechanism, users can select either the active mode or the passive mode to retrieve information through the Tablet PC. The Tablet PC has a large memory and a big display screen. It differs from the general handheld devices like PDAs or Smart Phones. Therefore, we can store all kinds of information about the museum in the Tablet PC and the server such that end users can query information in a short period of time. Administrators can also maintain or add information in the server side easily. When the guide system is started by users, it will automatically check the database consistency between the client and the server and then download the new information through the wireless network to the Tablet PC. Since our back-end database can store the notes that a user recorded during the tour in the museum, the guide system provides an upload function to transmit the notes to the remote server so that other users can share them. Afterward the system administrator can judge the correctness of uploaded data and decide whether to update the database or not. Such that, our system provides the mutual interaction that allows users to download the interesting images from the remote server as well as to upload information to the remote server to improve the contents of database. Performing such interactive leaming function is another important issue of OUT system Fig. 1. The guide system architecture 3 System Functionalities The guide system provides an electronic handheld guide that visitors to Taipei Fine Arts Museum can use to access information about the exhibition, create tailored tours of the museum, and access interactive services. The system is run on a Tablet PC equipped with 802.11 wireless networking capabilities We performed association rule mining and location service through the tour guide access log. The association rule is one of the commonly considered techniques in data mining and is usually used in the basket data [SI. In order to provide the users personalized services at the back-end system, we use the data mining algorithm to fmd the large 


system, we use the data mining algorithm to fmd the large itemset. From the large itemset we can fmd the association rules to recommend the exhibits [6].  The guide end-user system provides several capabilities J J J J Que, information. Users can use the guide system to retrieve information and get their current location Recommendafion. The guide system adopted association rule mining on the relative exhibits  data so that users can easily to find the exhibit that they would l i e  to know Notes Anyfime. We provided the learning and information exchange function that users can write down their current environments, or the interesthg exhibits Informotion Shoring. With this function, the guide system can upload the user  s notes or download others  notes during the tour 3.1 Information model The guide system relies on a geographic model that includes the geographic data such as museum  s infrastructure and an associated set of exhibition information about the museum. Users are required to select the floor and the area to be visited in the museum while using the guide system. The users can compare the area map of the guide system and the physical locations that can explicitly be realized from where they are. The area map also provides the locations of the infrastructure in this floor so that users can fmd the elevator, public telephone, emergency exit or toilet easily. In fact, we only allow users guided via a pull-based approach in the museum because we cannot use GPS to position the users   current locations in the indoor environments. And that is the reason why the tour guide system cannot provide the location information automatically and immediately 3.2 User Interface The guide  s main task is to assist the users exploring the museum space and push the related information. Using pull-based approach, users have to select the floor and the area in the museum and then the system will display the detailed map of the items they choose, which is shown as Fig. 2. When the users click the exhibit  s reduced picture the system will switch to the user guide screen and present the information about the selected exhibit 2647 Fig. 2.  The guide system of exhibition  s topic The information may include the exhibit  s image, the introduction of the author, the recommended exhibits, etc The functions of the guide for exhihits are on the left hand side of the screen as shown in Fig. 3. On the center of the screen, there are the innoductions of the exhibit and the author  s information described in text. Users can get the detailed description of the exhibit and view the image by pressing the button  Exhibit Information  The right hand side of the screen shows three exhibits  pictures related to the main exhibit that the user has selected. Those recommended exhibits are found by using the association rule mining technology. Moreover, the system will display the relationship and the support value under each recommended exhibit  s picture. The user can also click the recommended exhibit  s picture to further explore the contents Fig. 3. The guide system of exhibition  s information 3.3 Notes Anytime In addition to the basic functions mentioned above, our guide system also provides the learning and information exchange function as shown in Fig. 4. When the users have special ideas or impressions for any exhibit, they can 


have special ideas or impressions for any exhibit, they can use the designed notes function and draw the ideas or comments on the canvas. This function is different from the traditional handheld devices. Users need not to input the text through keyboard. Instead, a writing panel of the Tablet PC can help record or draw down all the messages easily. Besides, we can press the button  Load Exhibit  to download the exhibit  s picture into the canvas and use the buttons  Label    Copy  and  Paste  to assist the users to reserve part of the picture. The notes can he saved as a picture in the P E G  format. When a user fmishes hisher guiding, he/she can send the notes through wireless network using the e-mail function that embedded in the system Fig. 4. The reduced picture of exhibition 3.4 Information Sharing The guide system also provides the upload and the download functions to handle notes as shown in Fig. 5. If a user wants to share hisher plentiful notes with other users, heishe can upload the notes through wireless network to the back-end server. Admiiistratorsiexperts will check the notes that have been uploaded from the users. If the contents are valuable for leaming during the guide, administratorsiexperts can decide to accept them and save them into the database. The stored notes will in turn be used for other users during the next guiding. And the system will then display those notes with the closest relevancy and therefore he able to facilitate the navigating activities. The displays will be listed based on the frequency of past viewing records. By this way, we can ensure the users to view their favorite exhibits in the time as shortest as possible. The scenario of the favorite function is shown in Fig. 6 2648 Fig. 5.  The functions of notes module Fig. 6. The favorite function of the guide system 3.5 Data Mining In the transaction database of a large retail organization for example, association rule mining may find an association rule like: If a customer buys A and B then there is a 90% chance that be/she buys C as well. The value 90% is called the confidence of the rule. Another important parameter is the support of an itemset, such as A,B,C the transactions that contain this itemset Take the exhibition area 1A of the first floor for example. We can see the contents of database on the left hand side of the screen as shown in Fig. 7. The browsing data are listed as a column of itemset, which are recorded by the users while browsing the tour guide. The browsing number represents the number of exhibits being browsed in the database. The column displays the process for each large itemset of the mining task. Then we can set the thresholds of the min i  support and the minimum confidence to create the association rules through data mining. Finally, the system can use the mining results to recommend the related exhibits on the front-end interface of the tour guide system Fig. 7. The maintenance function of data mining 4 Evaluation and Analysis In general, observing the users  behaviors could be of great help in designing a well-defined guide system. The followings are often to be considered J Free exploration of the whole space. Users may wander in the areas of exhibits, pictures descriptions, and so on Reflection. The system will reflect on the activities that users performed 4.1 Questionnaires We used questionnaires to perform a qualitative analysis for the degrees of user acceptance and satisfaction in 


for the degrees of user acceptance and satisfaction in authentic use of the system. To evaluate the user interface two kinds of questionnaires were used a complete version with 15 questions and a short version with 5 questions We also held an interview to investigate the users   reactions with the guide system. After recording the users   comments, we encourage them to  think and loud  The main goal here is to qualitatively analyze the users   acceptance in the authentic use, verify the system framework, and then gather information for hture design Both the complete version and the short version of questionnaires contain multiple choices, fill-in answers and a free comment section. At the end of exhibition, we ask users to fill ant the questionnaires when they retun the tour guide systems. Users can choose either the complete questionnaires, which typically take 5 minutes each, or the short ones if they have less time. We analyze the questionnaires from 60 respondents \(30 short ones and 30 complete ones J 2649 4.2 User feedback Results of short version. The short version of questionnaires focuses on the investigation of pleasure and usability. The survey results show that the following characteristics are keys to the users with favorable assessments 1. Usefulness - 86 percentage of users report the guide system is usable, and Enjoyability - 84 percentage of users enjoy in using it Both - For 70% of users, the guide system was both enjoyable and useful The enjoyment was related to the user  s age. The user with age between 18 and 24 enjoyed the tool most We also found no correlation between enjoyment and occupation. The free comment section offers an interesting insight into the system, revealing what users perceived as the system  s shortcomings: 30% of respondents said that they would prefer a more informative guide system. This highlights the need for layering the available information based on user preferences and needs. What most users caring about all the usability problems were due to the fact that the Tablet PC is too heavy to carry all the time and some users worried that the battery would lose power before the end of exhibition Results of complete version. As shown in Table 1, the complete version of questionnaires covered the sense of ease to use, enjoyment, general usefulness, and value 2 3 Table 1. The comolete version auestionnaires  1 2 3 What was your motivation for using the guide How easy is this guide system to use Could you operate the system by yourself 4 5 6 IHow long did you use the guide Illow enjoyable is the guide to USC 11s this system useful for leaming in the exhibition   17. lDid the guide distract your visit  8 9 Did you get bored using the guide 


Did you get bored using the guide 11s the recommendation function useful in guiding Among the answers to the sense of easy to use, 6 said that the system was very simple to use, 67% said that it was simple, 24% said that it can not be employed immediately, and 3% said that it was difficult to use. In practical observation, most users can use the guide system without any help. For enjoyment, 17% said that it was high, 33% said that it was sufficient, 40% said that it was average, and 10% of respondents found no enjoyment at all. Most respondents \(74 useful, while 26% did not People might be afraid that users are easy to be distracted while using such tools for guiding in the museum or exhibition. However, in our shldy this was true for only 21% of users. Moreover, 7% of users even suggested that the guide  s image contents should be magnified and more video and audio informatian should be added to the system. Our analysis also found some interesting relationships between some of the survey  s items in the complete version. For example, enjoyment is strongly correlated with usefulness, highlighting the users   interests to a visit with both education and entertainment Enjoyment is also related to the quality of contents and technology. This suggests the importance of conveying knowledge with taste and an understanding of human psychology when developing the mobile guide system Besides, we provided the interesting functions in our tour guide system. For the recommendation function, 67 said it was useful in guiding. For the notes function, 60 said it was helpful for learning during the guiding. And 70% users said the package function was useful because they can keep their notes without any difficulty. In our study, most users explore the contents based on their own interests. Therefore, they would enjoy all these functions even when they use the guide system for the first time 4.3 The experiment of acquisition One of the goals in our analysis was to evaluate how the use of such a guide system impacts the users  behaviors We found the following interesting facts I enjoy using them more than images and texts 2 and those who try to read them only fmish in part 3 location. They recommend adding the indoor positioning technology in the guide system All of the observations and experiences here can be of great help for extending the guide system to the museums and exhibitions. Our system might, of course, provide more contents and the interaction modalities, along with intelligent decision support and location-aware services in the future 2650 5 Conclusion The tour guide system with location-based service will trigger the push of information and therefore raise some interesting issues. Because users can soon get the information pushed from the system automatically they will find many attractive characteristics in the system Our system provides unique insight into the challenges faced by the developers of location-based applications. Focusing our research on a tour guide system has helped us gain practical experience in how to constmct the location-based applications. The iterative information construction can motivate users to construct the information that they are interested in and record the information for future reuse. Besides, since there are many interesting and useful functions in our teaming and guide system, users can download the extra information from the back-end database and thus learn something from the information easily 


information easily We try to design a unified application interface for the need of different kinds of application platforms Moreover, by integrating the cellular location-awareness techniques, the system will be more attractive than the traditional one with only fixed position support. We will also build our system on the PDAs in the next version Though the PDAs do not have big screen, large memory and storage, and powerful computing ability, most users still like the guide system rnnning on them because they are light and handy. On the other hand, we will look for other domains to further employ our learning and guide system for indoor or outdoor teaching Acknowledgment This work is supported by National Science Council Taiwan, R.O.C. under Grants NSC92-2511-S-036-001 and NSC92-2213-E-036-017 References l]  B. Schilit, N. Adams and R.Want  Context-aware computing applications  Proceedings on Mobile Computing Sysfems and Applications, pp.85-90, 1994 2] PJ Brown, .ID Bovey and X. Chen  Context-aware applications: from the laboratory to the market place   ZEEE Personal Comm., vo1.4, pp.58-64, 1997 3] H. Tbimbleby  User interface design  ACM Press 1990 4] K. Cheverst, K. Mitchell and N. Davies  Exploring Context-aware Information Push  Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, ACM Press, vol. 6, issue 4 pp.276-281, Jan. 2002  2651 5] C.-C  Chan and W.-H. Au  Mining fuzzy association rules  Proceeding of the 6th Int. Conf on Ziformation and Knowledge Management, pp.209-2 15 January 1997 6] H.-H. Sung  Helping online customers decide through web personalization  IEEE Intelligent ,Svstems vol. 17, issue 6, pp.34-43, Nov. 2002 7] Y.-W. Chen, H.-R. Peng and C.-S. Hsu  Implementation of a native information management system for guided learning with PDNGPS  ZASTED Conf, July 2003 8] N. Davies, K. Cheverst, K. Mitchell, and A. Efrat  Using and determining location in a context-sensitive tour guide  IEEE Computer, vol. 34, issue 8, pp.35-41 Aug. 2001 9] J. Han and M. Kamber, Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Francisco CA, 2001 IO] T.-P. Hang, C.4.  Kuo, and S.-C. Chi  A fuzzy data d i g  algorithm for quantitative values  3rd Znt. Conf on Knowledge-Based Zntelligent Information Engineering Systems, pp.480-483, 1999 I l l  S .  Poslad, H. Laamanen, R. Malaka, A. Nick, P Buckle, and A. Zipl  Creation of user-friendly mobile services personalized for tourism  Second Inf. Conf on 3G Mobile Communication Technologies, pp.28-32,2001 12] H.-H. Sung  Helping online customers decide through web personalization  ZEEE Znfelligent Systems vol. 17, issue 6, pp.34-43, Nov. 2002 I31 T. Yoshino, T. Muta, and J. Munemori  NAMBA Location-aware collaboration system for shopping and meeting  IEEE Trans. on Consumer Electronics, vol. 48 issue 3, pp.470-477, Aug. 2002 1141 T. Zimmerman, S .  Ihde, K. Adders, S. Wright, M Wirth, and S .  Hopkirk  Travel card airport self-check in using a wireless PDA  Intelligent Transportation Systems pp.1224-1228,2001 15] N. Davies, K. Cheverst, K. Mitchell, and A. Efrat 


15] N. Davies, K. Cheverst, K. Mitchell, and A. Efrat  Using and determining location in a context-sensitive tour guide  ZEEE Computer, vol. 34, issue 8, pp.35-41 Aug. 2001 pre></body></html 


 The required delivery date is a Range constraint any date within the next 30 days Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  today today+30 days Attribute S&H query\(UPS Product   say it is 59.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product  Attribute Price  Attribute Total  Inter-attribute constraints in PO14 Price  Quantity  Value  1-x Total  Price  S&H  1.088 Total  Total1  Total4 In this case the Quantity attribute value has changed to 2 by adding both requests together Furthermore the Delivery-Date attribute value is a result of finding a common range of the two The obvious saving in this case is 2*$39.95 59.95\1.088  21.71 Whether a bunch of POs should be aggregated in a particular way depend on whether costing savings can be achieved while satisfying all the constraints 6.2 Intelligent Aggregation of Purchase Orders in e-Procurement with Negotiations Aggregation under dynamic negotiation is harder because supplier side could be revising its own strategies and parameters on the fly While human intervention in the aggregation process is possible we focus on automated aspects of the aggregation in this paper Suppose we have a simple supplier side rule buy one and get second one half price from LT a supplier of mice keyboard and trackball Suppose we have requests to buy Mice as follows PO5 Attribute Buyer  Organization 223B\224 User 223Joe\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 1 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/21/05 02/21/05   a r an g e of dat e s  order dat e  deadline d Attribute S&H9  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product  Attribute Price10  Value  say it\222s 29.95 Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  1 tax rate results in a value 29.95  4.95\1.088  39.97 PO6 Attribute Buyer  Organization 223C\224 User 223Al\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 1 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/25/05 02/28/05   a r an g e of dat e s  order dat e  deadline d Attribute S&H10  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product sayit\222s 29.95 per mouse Attribute Price10 Value Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  1 tax rate results in a value 29.95  4.95\1.088  39.97 6.2.1 PO Aggregation Under Negotiation The rule-based aggregation engine uses the Negotiation service to understand supplier\222s offers and tries to take advantage of the terms in the offers For example by aggregating PO5 and PO6 can be aggregated as follows PO56 Attribute Buyer  Organization B C User 223Joe\224 223Al\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 2 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/25/05 02/21/01 Attribute S&H10  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product sayit\222s 29.95 per mouse Attribute Price10 1.5*Value Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  tax  1.5 29.95  4.95\1.088  54.26 A saving of 39.97  2 54.26  25.68 or over 32 of savings Note the changes of the 223Quantity\224 and 223RequiredDelivery-Date\224 attributes after aggregation The quantities are added up and the required delivered dates are merged for a common range Due to the constraints on object attributes aggregation may require complex constraint solving Proceedings of the 2005 Ninth IEEE International ED OC Enterprise Computing Conference \(EDOC\22205 0-7695-2441-9/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


7 Conclusions and Future Work This paper describes an Intelligent Aggregation facility in enterprise e-Procurement process This facility introduces an information model a rule-based aggregation engine corporate agreement policies and negotiation in aggregating large volume of POs in enterprise eprocurement to reduce cost and maximize efficiency This information model includes extensive use of constraints for and among attributes in a PO These constraints guard the integrity of POs as they are aggregated The intelligent aggregation facility can be inserted as a value-added service in the enterprise e-Procurement workflow An enterprise generates millions of POs every year but the number of distinct products and services the enterprise purchases is actually much smaller in the hundreds rather than in the millions This presents cost saving opportunities by aggregating POs that makes best use of terms and conditions in corporate agreements or supplier offers Some concrete examples are used to show the idea of automated aggregation and the opportunities in reducing procurement cost As millions of POs are generated even a small percentage of savings would mean substantial savings for large enterprises The ideas described in this paper have not been fully implemented in our prototype One area needs more work is the formal representation of policies in corporate agreements which would allow the aggregation engine to automatically explore aggregation opportunities before POs are made to suppliers Another is the semantic model of products which would enable more semantics-based aggregation of POs 8 References  e bX M L  h t t p   w w w ebxml  org  2 e n g  J  S u  S  Y  W  L a m H   a n dH e l a l S   223Achieving Dynamic Inter-Organizational Workflow Management by Integrating Business Processes Events and Rules,\224 Proceedings of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences HICSS35 Hawaii USA January 2002 3 u  S  Y  W  L a m H   L e e  M  B a i S   a n dS h e n  Z   An Information Infrastructure and E-services for Supporting Internet-based Scalable E-business Enterprises Proceedings of the 5th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Seattle Washington USA September 2001 4 S u S Y  W   H ua ng C  H a mme r J   H u a ng Y   L i  H   Wang,L.,LiuY.,Pluempitiwiriyawej,C.,Lee,M and Lam H 223An Internet-based Negotiation Server for E-commerce,\224 VLDB Journal Vol 10 No 1 2001 pp.72-90 5 M o r r i s S l o m a n  223 P o l i c y D ri v e n M an ag em e n t f o r Distributed Systems\224 Journal of Network and Systems Management Plenum Press Vol 2 No 4 1994  M aarten S teen  J oh n D errick  223 For m ali s ing ODP Enterprise Policies\224 Proceedings of the 3 rd International nterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Mannheim Germany IEEE CS Press September 1999  J am e s H a ns on  Z oran M i l o s e v i c 223 C o n v e r s at i onOriented Protocols for Contract negotiations\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003  S  N eal J  C ole P.F L i n i ng ton  Z  Milose v i c S Gibson S Kulkarni 223Identifying Requirements for Business Contract Language a Monitoring Perspective\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003 9 T  D im itrak o s  I  D j o rd j e v i c Z  Milo sev i c A  J o san g  C Phillips 223Contract Performance Assessment for Secure and Dynamic Virtual Collaborations\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003 Proceedings of the 2005 Ninth IEEE International ED OC Enterprise Computing Conference \(EDOC\22205 0-7695-2441-9/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


absolute values. The results can vary on other computers. But it can be guaranteed that performance ratio of the algorithms will remain the same After making the comparisons with sample data, we came to the conclusion that PD algorithm performs significantly better than the other two especially with larger datasets. PD outperforms DCP and PIP regarding running time. On the other hand, since PD reduces the dataset, mining time does not necessary increase as the number of transactions increases and experiments reveals that PD has better scalability than DCP and PIP. So, PD has the ability to handle the large data mine in practical field like market basket analysis and medical report documents mining 5. References 1] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algoritlnns for mining association rules", VLDB'94, pp. 487-499 2] R. J. Bayardo, "Efficiently mining long patterns from databases", SIGMOD'98, pp.85-93 3] J. Pei, J. Han, and R. Mao, "CLOSET: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets \(PDF Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD International Workshop on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, Dallas, TX, May 2000 4] Qinghua Zou, Henry Chiu, Wesley Chu, David Johnson, "Using Pattern Decomposition\( PD Finding All Frequent Patterns in Large Datasets", Computer Science Department University of California - Los Angeles 5] J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin, "Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation \(PDF  SIGMOD International Con! on Management of Data SIGMOD'OOj, Dallas, TX, May 2000 6] S. Orlando, P. Palmerini, and R. Perego, "The DCP algoritlnn for Frequent Set Counting", Technical Report CS2001-7, Dip. di Informatica, Universita di Venezia 2001.Available at http://www.dsi.unive.itl?orlando/TR017.pdf 7] MD. Mamun-Or-Rashid, MD.Rezaul Karim, "Predictive item pruning FP-tree algoritlnn", The Dhaka University  Journal of Science, VOL. 52, NO. 1, October,2003, pp. 3946 8] Park, J. S., Chen, M.-S., and Yu, P. S, "An Effective Hash Based Algoritlnn for Mining Association Rules", Proc ofthe 1995 ACM-SIGMOD Con! on Management of Data 175-186 9] Brin, S., Motwani, R., Ullman, J., and Tsur, S, "Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data", In Proc. of the 1997 ACM-SIGMOD Conf On Management of Data, 255-264 10] Zaki, M. J., Parthasarathy, S., Ogihara, M., and Li, W New Algoritlnns for Fast Discovery of Association Rules In Proc. of the Third Int'l Con! on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining, 283-286 11] Lin, D.-I and Kedem, Z. M., "Pincer-Search: A New Algoritlnn for Discovering the Maximum Frequent Set", In Proc. of the Sixth European Conf on Extending DatabaseTechnology, 1998 12] R. Ramakrishnan, Database Management Systems University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA; International Edition 1998 pre></body></html 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


