html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Performance  Analysis of Multi-cell systems with Multiuser Detection and Multiple Antennas Vincent Lau Department of EEE, University of Hong Kong Email: knlau@ieee.org Abstract In this paper, we consider a system with K single-antenna client users, nB base stations \(each base station has nR antennas as a centralized controller. All the base stations operate at the same frequency and have optimal multi-user detection per base-station. A client user could be associated with a single base station at any time We consider a general problem of uplink macroscopic scheduling where the centralized controller dynamically determines an appropriate association mapping of the K users with respect to the nB base stations over a macroscopic time scale. We propose a novel analytical framework for the above macroscopic scheduling problems A simple rule is to associate a user with the strongest base station camp-on-the-strongest-cell conventional cellular systems. However, based on the optimization framework, we found that this conventional approach is in fact not optimal when multi-user detection is employed at the base station We show that the optimal macroscopic scheduling algorithm is of exponential complexity and we propose a simple greedy algorithm as a feasible solution. It is shown that the macroscopic scheduling gain relative to the conventional approach increases with increasing nR \(due to the extra degree of freedom introduced by multiple antennas due to large area of overlapping Keywords: multiple antenna, multi-user detection, macroscopic scheduling, multicell scheduling, optimal algorithm, genetic algorithm, proportional fairness, utility functions 1 Introduction Various methods have been proposed to enhance the wireless system capacity in the past decades. Multiple antenna technology and multi-user detection technology are two of the most important and promising techniques to enhance the uplink capacity of various wireless systems[1, 2]. They are briefly reviewed below MIMO Technologies: Given a fixed power budget, the only way to increase the bit rate is to increase the bandwidth of transmission. With multiple antennas at both the transmitter \(nT receiver \(nR a Multiple-Input Multiple-Output \(MIMO the link capacity gain is enhanced by the n = min{nT , nR spatial channels induced by the array of antennas. However optimizing the MIMO link performance is insufficient from a system perspective. Indeed, it is also very important to consider the resource management dimension at the system level to effectively exploit the performance potential of multipleantenna technologies in multiuser systems. In [3], the scheduling efficiency of a multi-user single antenna system is shown to be greatly enhanced by a jointly adaptive physical layer and scheduling approach where a scheduling decision is made by considering the instantaneous throughput achievable by the user Multi-user Detection Technologies: Conventional methods of radio resource partitioning are based on orthogonal partition in the sense that channels between users do not interfere with each other. For example, FDMA \(Frequency Division Multiple Access Time Division Multiple Access terministic CDMA \(Code Division Multiple Access known examples of orthogonal multi-access schemes. It has been shown by [4] that the optimal multi-access scheme result in non-orthogonal channels and user signals are separated by joint detection. The multi-user detection problem is similar to the time-domain equalization problem. Recently, multi-user detection has been actively investigated as a promising candidate to enhance the uplink system capacity of 3G cellular systems However, in all these works, the focus is on a single cell system The system performance of multi-cell systems with optimal multi 


The system performance of multi-cell systems with optimal multiuser detection and multiple antennas at the base station has not been investigated by previous literature. In this paper, we propose, for the first time, a novel theoretical framework for performance analysis of multiple antenna system involving multiple base stations and multiuser detection per base station. There are K single-antenna mobile users, nB base stations \(each has nR antennas ized controller as illustrated in figure 1. This is a generic multi-cell architecture model which could be applied to cellular systems as well as wireless LAN public access systems All the base stations operate in the same frequency with optimal multi-user detection. Encoding and decoding of packet frames are done at individual base station level and there is no joint decoding between multiple base stations. A client user could be associated with a single base station only at any time. The problem is to find WCNC 2004 / IEEE Communications Society 560 0-7803-8344-3/04/$20.00  2004 IEEE Figure 1: Block diagram of the multicell system with nB base stations \(each has nR receive antennas each has single antenna out a dynamic association mapping between all the K users and the nB base stations over a macroscopic time scale such that the system performance is optimized. The algorithm shall run at the centralized controller and is referred to macroscopic scheduling. A simple and widely used algorithm \(e.g. in GSM, CDMA, UMTS systems  for every mobile to always camp on the strongest cell. However, as we shall illustrate, this is in fact not the optimal strategy when multiuser detection is available at the base station. The performance gap could be quite large especially for multiple antenna base stations Based on the analytical formulation, we propose a greedy algorithm for the optimization problem and compare the system performance relative to the conventional camp-on-the-strongest-cell approach This paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we outline the multi-cell architecture as well as the multi-user SIMO channel model. In Section 3, we formulate the theoretical framework for the multi-cell macroscopic scheduling problem with multiple antennas and convex utility functions. In Section 4, we propose two heuristic algorithms for the optimization problem with low implementation complexity. In Section 5, we present numerical results on the performance gains of the proposed algorithms. Finally, we conclude with a brief summary of results in Section 6 2 Multi-cell Multi-user SIMO System Model In this section, we describe the overall system model involving multi-cell multi-user SIMO1 channel model as well as adaptive multi-user physical layer model at each base station 1SIMO refers to Single-Input, Multiple-Output 2.1 Multi-user Multi-cell SIMO Channel Model The nR  1 dimensional channel matrix between user k and the nR receive antennas at base station b is given by  Lk,bHk,b whereHk,b is a nR  1 dimension vector corresponding to microscopic fading due to scattering and multipath, Lk,b is a scalar corresponding to the combined effect of path loss and macroscopic fading \(or shadowing antennas and different base stations are modeled as i.i.d. complex Gaussian process with unit variance and it varies over a microscopic time scale2. On the other hand, the shadowing term is modeled as log-normal distributed with mean given by the path loss and standard derivation given by 4 dB and it varies over a macroscopic time scale \(5 - 10 sec and different base stations are modeled as independent random variables The received signal at the b?th base-station is given by Yb K k=1  Lk,bHk,bXk + Zb \(1 where Xk is the transmit symbol from the k-th mobile terminal, Zb is the nR  1 dimension Gaussian noise with covariance given by 


is the nR  1 dimension Gaussian noise with covariance given by 2zInR and Yb is the nR  1 dimension vector of received symbols at the b?th base-station The encoding and decoding frames are assumed to be short bursts3 which are much shorter than the coherence time of the fast fading. Due to the short burst duration, power adaptation within a coding frame is unnecessary because the channel fading will be highly correlated within the entire coding frame. The average transmitted power of the k-th mobile terminal is assumed to be constrained \(where the averaging window is over one encoding frame to Pk. That is E [|Xk|2] ? Pk 2.2 Centralized Controller Processing The centralized controller is responsible for determining the dynamic association mapping between the K users and the nB base stations. Once every Topt second, the b?th base stations pass the estimated path losses {L1,b, ..., LK,b} from the K users to the centralized controller. These inputs will be used for the macroscopic scheduling algorithm in the centralized controller to produce the association mapping for the K users. Specifically, the association mapping is given by the K?dimension vector B = \(?1, ..., ?K where ?k ? [0, nB ? 1] denotes the associated base station for user k. Alternatively, define the association set for the b?th base station as Ab = {k : ?k = b ?k ? [1,K]}. This association mapping is then passed to the nB base stations 2For pedestrian user with speed around 5 km/hr, the coherence time of microscopic fading is around 50 ms for 2.4 GHz carrier 3This is a reasonable assumption because most high speed wireless data systems operate in short burst mode. For example, in UMTS-HSDPA, a typical burst only last for 2 ms which is much shorter than the coherence time of slow fading channels \(at pedestrian speed frame WCNC 2004 / IEEE Communications Society 561 0-7803-8344-3/04/$20.00  2004 IEEE 2.3 Base Station Processing From \(1 ten as Yb  k?Ab  Lk,bHk,bXk  In?cellSignals   k/?Ab  Lk,bHk,bXk  IntercellInterference Zb ThermalNoise 2 The b?th base station processes in-cell signals based on the association set Ab. Signals from users k /? Ab are treated as intercell interference. We assume that the transmitted packets are decoded at the base station level and there is no joint decoding across different base stations at the centralized controller level In order to isolate the performance of the link level from any specific implementation details of modulation, channel coding and multi-user detector, we take an information theoretic approach4 on the multiaccess performance and assume that each base station has an optimal multiuser detector. Let rk be the conditional average data rate of the k?th mobile conditioned on a path loss realization {Lk,b}. Assume that the b?th base station has full knowledge5 of channel matrices, {Hk,b : k ? Ab}, and path losses Lk,b : k ? Ab}, of all the associated users . From Shannon  s multiaccess information theory[4], the single-cell capacity region \(given Lk,b  r  S     E H   I   X i  i  S   Y b   X i  i  A b  S     S    A b   3  f o r  s o m e  i n p u t  d i s t r i b u t i o n   k  A b p  X k   w h e r e   r  S   d e n o t e s  i?S ri. The capacity region could be achieved by successive in 


i?S ri. The capacity region could be achieved by successive interference cancellation From \(1 ing distribution p\(Xk mapping, {Ab}, and the path loss matrix, {Lk,b}, the average multiuser capacity region R  averaged over path loss matrices K client mobiles for the multi-cell system with nB base stations is given by EL[R] which is  R  S     E L  EH  nB b=1 log2  1  k?S  Ab PkLk,b|Hk,b|2 2z  j?E?Ab PjLj,b|Hj,b|2  4 where the term  j?E?Ab PjLj,b|Hj,b|2 represents intercell inter-ference and Rk = E [rk] denotes the average data  rate of user k 2.4 Mobile Assisted Path Loss Estimation As mentioned in section 2.2, all the nB base stations have to report the estimated path loss to the centralized controller for macroscopic scheduling. In this section, we describe how the base station estimates the path loss. Figure 2 illustrates the mobile assisted path loss estimation scheme 4With the application of advanced channel coding schemes \(such as turbo codes and LDPC codes close to the Shannon  s capacity region 5Full knowledge of channel matrix could be achieved by channel estimation at the base station based on the pilot or preambles on uplink transmissions Figure 2: Mobile Assisted Path Loss Estimation The b?th base station transmits a common pilot channel with periodic pilot pattern Sb\(n maximal likelihood estimate of the channel matrices is given by    Lk,1hk,1w0       Lk,nBhk,nBw0   1 P0 ys?\(ss 5 where y is the Np dimensional vector of received pilot symbols w0 = 1sqrtnR \(1, ...,1  1 dimension pilot weight. Note that the nB pilot patterns are chosen such that rank of s is nB Since E [|hk,bw0|2] = 1 and Lk,b remains approximately constant over multiple \(Nl loss is given by L  k,b 1 Nl Nl i=1   b  2   6  Hence, the b?th base station collects the path loss \(or long-term channel gain associated with it \(i.e. k ? Ab 


associated with it \(i.e. k ? Ab path loss estimates to the central controller for macroscopic scheduling 3 Macroscopic Scheduling Problem Formulation We characterize the system performance by means of linear system utility functions given by U\(R1, . . . , RK K k=1 kRk = EL  k krk  7 where Rk = EL[rk] is the average data rate of user k \(averaged over shadowing and path loss The macroscopic scheduling problem is given by Problem 1. Determine the optimal association mapping policy A\({Lk,b WCNC 2004 / IEEE Communications Society 562 0-7803-8344-3/04/$20.00  2004 IEEE tion, U\(R1, .., RK R1, .., RK  The optimization could be re-written as EL  max A\(L max r1,..,rK K k=1  k r k  s u b j e c t  t o   r    R  L  A   8 where R\(L,A 4 Before we could solve the above optimization problem, we have to understand the structure of the multicell capacity region R   3.1 Structure of the Optimization Problem From \(8 two sub-problems. The inner problem corresponds to the base station processing and is given by Problem 2. Given a realization of path loss matrices {Lk,b} and user association mapping Ab for b ? [1, nB ], find the rate vector t h a t  o p t i m i z e s  g  L  A      k   k r k  s u c h  t h a t   r    R  L  A  The outer problem corresponds to the central controller processing and is given by choosing the optimal user association mapping B = \(?1, .., ?K or equivalently {A1, ..,AnB L,A is optimized. This belongs to combinatorial optimization 3.2 Optimal Solution to the Inner Problem Given any path loss realization {Lk,b}, and association mapping A, the solution to the inner optimization problem in Problem \(2 is given by the rate vector, {r?1 , ..., r?K r??\(k 1 P?\(k 1 k k k 2z  j?E?A??\(k PjLj,??\(k k    9 where ? = \(?\(1 K 1 K As a result of 9, the optimization problem as specified in Problem 1 becomes a combinatorial optimization. The search space is of the order \(nB for moderate K and nB 4 Low Complexity Solution for the Outer Problem 


In this section, we propose a novel greedy macroscopic scheduling algorithm with respect to two widely used utility functions, namely the maximal throughput and the proportional fairness. The algorithm is simple and greedy with linear complexity with respect to K 4.1 Sub-optimal Macroscopic Scheduling  Greedy Algorithm When base station has multi-user detection, conventional view on the camp-on-the-strongest cell approach suffers from performance loss because it is more effective to associate a client user to a single base station \(due to interference cancellation is very far from the base station. Hence, we introduce a hystersis factor, ?L, in the proposed algorithm to take care of this effect. The algorithm is described below Algorithm 1. Step 1: Randomly generates a permutation on the nB base stations, ?? = \(??\(1 nB Step 2: For k = 1 : K, scan the base station in descending order of the permutation {??\(1 2 the base station \(??\(b LdB\(k, ??\(b is within ?L dB range from the maximum channel gain maxj?[1,nB ] LdB\(k, j b if LdB\(k, ??\(b  k, j way, we give priority to base station on the top of the permutation list 5 Numerical Results and Discussions In this section, we compare the system performance of the greedy macroscopic scheduler versus the conventional camp-on-thestrongest-cell approach with respect to the maximal throughput and the proportional fair utility functions. The set of simulation parameters is illustrated in table 1 Parameters Value Area 100m x 100m nB 4 Position of Base Station 1 \(33m, 33m Position of Base Station 2 \(33m, 66m Position of Base Station 3 \(66m, 33m Position of Base Station 4 \(66m, 66m Shadowing standard derivation 4 dB Topt 5 seconds K 20 Table 1: Simulation Parameters 5.1 Performance of Macroscopic Scheduler versus Transmit Power Figure 3\(a b for the maximal throughput and proportional fair utility functions respectively. Mobile users are distributed randomly on the coverage area served by nB base stations. From figure 3\(a significant gain in total system capacity \(relative to the camp-on-thestrongest-cell baseline 1, 2, 4 For example, there are 3.5, 3.8 and 4.3 times of total system capacity gain at nR = 1, 2, 4 respectively. The significant gain is due to the presence of multi-user detection and interference cancellation capability at the base station. For instance, it is better to associate WCNC 2004 / IEEE Communications Society 563 0-7803-8344-3/04/$20.00  2004 IEEE 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Transmit Power \(dBm To ta l a ve ra ge 


ge s ys te m th ro ug hp ut o f a ll u se rs b s Hz  Greedy Alg \(nR=4 Camp?on?the strongest?cell \(nR=4 Greedy Alg \(nR=2 Camp?on?the strongest?cell \(nR=2 Camp?on?the strongest?cell \(nR=1 Greedy Alg \(nR=1 a 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 10 20 30 Transmit Power \(dBm To ta l a ve ra ge s ys te m u tili ty o f a ll u se rs s um k lo g\(R k Greedy Alg \(nR=4 camp?on?the?strongest?cell \(nR=4 Greedy Alg \(nR=2 camp?on?the strongest?cell \(nR=2 camp?on?the 


camp?on?the strongest?cell nR=1 Greedy Alg \(nR=1 b Figure 3: Performance of macroscopic scheduler versus transmit power at nR = 1, 2, 4. Path loss exponent = 3.5. ?L = ?4dB users to one base station even if the user is closer to another base station \(unless the user is very far away from the base station interference cancellation could be effective only for users associated with the base station. This is illustrated in figure 4 Figure 3\(b utility function at nR = 1, 2, 4. Similarly, significant gains are observed at all nR 6 Conclusions In this paper, we consider a generic multi-cell system with K client users \(each with single antenna each with nR antennas and multiuser detector time, a user could be associated with one base station only. Encoding and decoding terminates at the base station level. The problem is to find the optimal dynamic user association with the nB base Figure 4: Illustration of the advantage to associate users with one base station. It is better to associate mobile 1, 2, 3 to base station A \(even if mobile 3 is closer to base station B mobile 4 should be associated with base station B because it is very close to the base station stations such that the system performance is optimized. We proposed an analytical framework for the above macroscopic scheduling problem and introduce a greedy sub-optimal solution. We show that when multi-user detection is incorporated in base stations, the conventional camp-on-the-strongest-cell approach is far from optimal. For example, we illustrated that there are 4 time of throughput gain between the proposed greedy algorithm and the conventional algorithm at various nR. This is because with multi-user detection it is advantageous to associate users to a common base station due to interference cancellation unless the user is very far away from the base station. We found that the scheduling gain increases with decreasing path loss exponent because of the increase in the effective overlapping area between cells References 1] S. Verdu  The Capacity Region of the Symbol-Asynchronous Gaussian Multiple-Access Channel  IEEE Transactions on Information Theory., pp. 733  751, July 1989 2] G. J. Foschini and M. J. Gans  On the limits of wireless communications in a fading environment  Wireless Personal Communications., pp. 315  335, Nov 1998 3] J. M. Torrance and L. Hanzo  Latency Considerations for Adaptive Modulation in an Interference-Free Slow Rayleigh Fading Channel  Proc. VTC  97, Phoenix, USA, June 1997 4] T. M. Cover and J. A. Thomas, Elements of Information Theory John Wiley and Sons, second ed., 1991 5] T. S. Rappaport, Wireless Communications - Principles and Practice. Prentice Hall, second ed., 2002 WCNC 2004 / IEEE Communications Society 564 0-7803-8344-3/04/$20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


CBA and Neural Networks at 1% confidence level while they are all significantly better than C4.5 decision tree. Taking the interpretability of classification model into account, these two adapted CBA algorithm seem to be appropriate choices for credit scoring because they generated much more compact decision lists \(less sequential rules original CBA. They therefore favour the well-known Occam  s Razor theory and are more suitable for decision makers to understand. A deeper insight into the rules structures shows that original CBA and adapted CBA 1 both focus on generating classification rules that predict good clients \(with bad clients as the default class implication, numerous rules with high confidence but low support have lower ranks than they are in original CBA. These rules are finally discarded since they are not fired by any training samples, which are matched by these rules with higher intensity of implications thus making the decision lists generated by adapted CBA 1 more compact. Adapted CBA 2 mainly mines these classification rules for bad clients \(with good clients as the default class compact rule sets Original CBA Adapted CBA1 Adapted CBA2 C45 NN dataset accuracy no. of rules accuracy num. of rules accuracy no. of rules accuracy accuracy 1 Austr 85.65% 130.5 86.52% 26.4 86.96% 12.4 86.52% 85.07 2 Germ 73.30% 134 74.40% 56.5 73.20% 19.7 72.40% 74.90 3 Bene 72.92% 393 72.30% 186 73.51% 51 70.21% 72.63 Table 2. Experiment results Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering \(ICEBE  05 0-7695-2430-3/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE In addition, decision makers in financial institution certainly pay more attentions to those rules that predict bad clients, which will be extraordinary costly if they are regarded as good ones 5. Conclusion Intensity of implication is proposed in the beginning as an interestingness measure for association rules Another novel interestingness measure called dilated chi-square is designed by us to reveal the statistical interdependence between the antecedents and consequents of association rules We then adapt CBA algorithm, which can be used to build classifiers based on class association rules, by coupling it with intensity of implication and dilated chi-square respectively. More concretely, Intensity of implication \(or dilated chi-square primary criterion to rank class association rules at the first step of the database coverage pruning procedure in CBA algorithm. Experiments on three credit scoring datasets proved that these two adapted algorithms compared with original CBA, classical C4.5 decision tree and neural network, achieve satisfactory performance and generates classifiers much more compact than CBA 6. Acknowledgement The work was partly supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China \(70231010/70321001 7. References 1] Wang, K. and S. Zhou, Growing decision trees on support-less association rules. in KDD'00. 2000. Boston,MA 2] Liu, B., W. Hsu, and Y. Ma, Integrating Classification and Association Rule Mining. in the 4th International Conference on Discovery and Data Mining. 1998. New 


Conference on Discovery and Data Mining. 1998. New York,U.S 3] Dong, G., et al, CAEP:Classification by aggregating emerging patterns. in 2nd International Conference on Discovery Science,\(DS'99 Artificial Intelligence. 1999. Tokyo,Japan: Springer-Verlag 4] Liu, W., J. Han, and J. Pei, CMAR: Accurate and efficient classification based on multiple class-association rules. in ICDM'01. 2001. San Jose, CA 5] Yin, X. and J. Han, CPAR:Classification based on predictive association rules. in 2003 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM'03 Fransisco,CA 6] Agrawal, R. and R. Srikant, Fast algorithm for mining association rules. in the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases. 1994. Santiago,Chile 7] Agrawal, R., T. Imielinski, and A. Swami, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases. in the ACM SIGMOID Conference on Management of Data 1993. Washington,D.C 8] Guillaume, S., F. Guillet, and J. Philippe, Improving the discovery of association rules with intensity of implication Principles of Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 1998 1510: p. 318-327 9] Janssens, D., et al, Adapting the CBA-algorithm by means of intensity of implication. in the First International Conference on Fuzzy Information Processing Theories and Applications. 2003. Beijing, China 10] Gras, G. and A. Lahrer, L'implication statistique: une nouvelle methode d'analysis de donnees. Mathematiques Informatique et Sciences Humaines n 20, 1993 11] Suzuki, E. and Y. Kodratoff, Discovery of  surprising exception rules based on intensity of implication. in PKDD'98. 1998. Berlin: Springer 12] Mills, F., Statistical Methods. 1955: Pitman 13] Lan, Y., et al, Dilated Chi-square: A novel interestingness measure to build accurate and compact decision list. in International conference on intelligent information processing. 2004. Beijing,China 14] Quinlan, J.R., C4.5 programs for machine learning 1993: Morgan Kaufmann 15] Witten, I.H. and E. Frank, Data Mining: practical machine learning tools and techniques with Java implementations. 2000: Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco 16] Fayyad, U.M. and K.B. Irani, Multi-interval discretization of continuous valued attributes for classification learning. in the Thirteenth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence \(IJCAI Chambery,France: Morgan Kaufmann 17] Blake, C.L. and C.J. Merz, UCI repository of machine learning databases http://www.ics.uci.edu/~mlearn/mlrepository.htm]. 1998 Irvine,CA:University of California, Dept. of Information and Computor Science 18] Dietterich, T.G., Approximate statistical tests for comparing supervised classification learning algorithms Neural Computation, 1998. 10\(7 Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering \(ICEBE  05 0-7695-2430-3/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


absolute values. The results can vary on other computers. But it can be guaranteed that performance ratio of the algorithms will remain the same After making the comparisons with sample data, we came to the conclusion that PD algorithm performs significantly better than the other two especially with larger datasets. PD outperforms DCP and PIP regarding running time. On the other hand, since PD reduces the dataset, mining time does not necessary increase as the number of transactions increases and experiments reveals that PD has better scalability than DCP and PIP. So, PD has the ability to handle the large data mine in practical field like market basket analysis and medical report documents mining 5. References 1] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algoritlnns for mining association rules", VLDB'94, pp. 487-499 2] R. J. Bayardo, "Efficiently mining long patterns from databases", SIGMOD'98, pp.85-93 3] J. Pei, J. Han, and R. Mao, "CLOSET: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets \(PDF Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD International Workshop on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, Dallas, TX, May 2000 4] Qinghua Zou, Henry Chiu, Wesley Chu, David Johnson, "Using Pattern Decomposition\( PD Finding All Frequent Patterns in Large Datasets", Computer Science Department University of California - Los Angeles 5] J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin, "Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation \(PDF  SIGMOD International Con! on Management of Data SIGMOD'OOj, Dallas, TX, May 2000 6] S. Orlando, P. Palmerini, and R. Perego, "The DCP algoritlnn for Frequent Set Counting", Technical Report CS2001-7, Dip. di Informatica, Universita di Venezia 2001.Available at http://www.dsi.unive.itl?orlando/TR017.pdf 7] MD. Mamun-Or-Rashid, MD.Rezaul Karim, "Predictive item pruning FP-tree algoritlnn", The Dhaka University  Journal of Science, VOL. 52, NO. 1, October,2003, pp. 3946 8] Park, J. S., Chen, M.-S., and Yu, P. S, "An Effective Hash Based Algoritlnn for Mining Association Rules", Proc ofthe 1995 ACM-SIGMOD Con! on Management of Data 175-186 9] Brin, S., Motwani, R., Ullman, J., and Tsur, S, "Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data", In Proc. of the 1997 ACM-SIGMOD Conf On Management of Data, 255-264 10] Zaki, M. J., Parthasarathy, S., Ogihara, M., and Li, W New Algoritlnns for Fast Discovery of Association Rules In Proc. of the Third Int'l Con! on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining, 283-286 11] Lin, D.-I and Kedem, Z. M., "Pincer-Search: A New Algoritlnn for Discovering the Maximum Frequent Set", In Proc. of the Sixth European Conf on Extending DatabaseTechnology, 1998 12] R. Ramakrishnan, Database Management Systems University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA; International Edition 1998 pre></body></html 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


