html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">On the  Computational Complexity of Two Frequent Set Generation Algorithms Alan P. Sprague Department of Computer and Information Sciences University of Alabama at Birmingham Birmingham, Alabama 35294-1170 Email: sprague@cis. uab. edu Abstract Frequent set generation is normally the first step toward association rule generation, and is usually considered the bottleneck step. Accordingly, many algorithms to generate frequent sets have been proposed. Evaluation of these al  gorithms is normally done empirically: their running times have been compared on a few or a substantial number of data files. Evaluation of the computational complexity of these algorithms has not much been pursued except to note that every algorithm requires exponential time, because the output size can be exponential in terms qf' the input size We develop an alternate method qf' evaluating algorithms for frequent set generation: we propose evaluating the al  gorithms according to their computational complexity on several abstractly defined infinite families qf' data files. We perform this evaluation for Apriori and F P-growth on two infinite families qf'data files, and show that on both families a variant of F P-growth is unboundedly faster than Apriori as the data file size increases 1 Introduction In this paper we use computational complexity to shed light on the relative execution speed of frequent set genera  tion algorithms, as the input data file size grows unbound  edly. In particular we study Apriori [3, 4, 2] and a variant of FP-growth [7, 6]. This variant differs from the original FP-growth in two ways: \(1 modified at each conditional tree; \(2 constructed directly from the parent tree, not by first con  structing the "conditional pattern base" [7, 6]. We assume main memory execution Algorithms to generate frequent sets have been a con  cern because of \(1 the first step toward generating association rules, and \(2 the large amount of computation performed by these algo  rithms. Analysis of the computational complexity of these algorithms has commonly ended with the observation that execution time is exponential in terms of the input size \(be  cause output size is exponential in terms of the input size A rare paper that pushes beyond this is [5]. Instead, com  parison of algorithms has normally been done by comparing the execution time of implementations, on benchmark data sets. A recent systematic initiative in this direction is the workshop "Frequent Itemset Mining Implementations" that took place in November 2003 [1 We will quickly study the computational complexity of Apriori; the number of incrementations of support will form the basis for the lower bound derived for the computational complexity of Apriori. We will study the computational complexity of a variant of FP-growth. As may be expected the number of nodes in the FP-trees will play an important role in that complexity The trouble is that the number of support incrementa  tions and the number of FP-trees are incommensurate in general. However, they may be related to each other for specific data files and specific families of data files. We will define certain infinite families of data files \(each fam  ily containing infinitely many data files; each data file is finite all small \(and perhaps medium sized The other family models data files arising from rectangu  lar arrays: there are t attributes, and each record contains one value for each of the t attributes. We will show that on both these families, the variant of FP-growth is unbound  


both these families, the variant of FP-growth is unbound  edly faster than Apriori as the data files grow unboundedly large, unless the size of each record is bounded Thus, like comparisons of run time on benchmark files our comparison is primarily on specific data file families Unlike comparisons of run time on benchmark files, our method gives clear extrapolations to arbitrarily larger files This method of evaluating algorithms forms a complement to empirical testing After some definitions, we describe the families of data files in Section 2. Section 3 establishes a lower bound on the execution time of Apriori on the two families. A variant of FP-growth and its computational complexity are the topic of Section 4, and the next two sections specialize this to the two families of data files. Section 7 contains the major results, and the final section concludes Because of space constraints, most proofs for one of the data file families are omitted 1.1 Preliminaries We will describe a data file as a pair \(1, V a set of items, V is a set of records \(or transactions each record is a subset of I. \(More precisely, since multiple records can contain exactly the same set of items, V is a list of records rather than a set of records records is written IVI; size\(V an itemset is a subset s of I, and where lsi = j, s is also called a j -itemset We let I represent the power set of I - the set of all itemsets. The set of j-itemsets is written Ij The support of an itemset s is the number of records r such that s ? r; we write this as suppt\( s frequent set if suppt\( s the minimum support threshold. We represent the set of all frequent item sets by F \(or by F\(CY are balancing two minimum support thresholds or FjCY F n Ij We extend the support notation as follows: where J is a set of item sets, suppt\(J s Both Apriori and FP-growth rely on the existence of a linear ordering on items. We let I = {al, a2, ... , aIII where ai &lt; aj iff i &lt; j. Commonly the items are small integers: ai = i 00, no, and eo have their standard meanings o \(f \(n n constant c, g\(n n n  isfies this condition, we write g\(n f\(n n \(f \(n n positive constant c, g\(n n e\(f\(n f\(n f\(n 2 The Data Files In this section we describe two mathematically defined families of data files. Each family has infinitely many data files, of increasing size. Because they are mathematically defined, it is possible to predict the behavior of algorithms on them, and to establish the computational complexity of algorithms on them 2.1 Limited Power Set Let n be a positive integer and 1 ::; t ::; n. The limited power set data file  P\(n,::; t 1, V III = n, and V is all itemsets s such that lsi::; t We define the integer C;;t Where \(1, V  P\(n, ::; t records is \(;;t V  Since j G nG=i V t   Note that if the minimum support threshold 0" is set at 1, then the set of frequent sets is equal to V, so the sum of sizes of frequent sets is n \(;;t Proposition 1 \(a Ij G 2J b Ij It_j 


b Ij It_j Proof [9] is omitted 2.2 Cartesian Product Some naturally arising data files are basically rectangular arrays. Each row is a record and each column is an attribute Hence each record is a sequence of n data values, each data value being in the domain of that attribute. If each attribute has the same number of data values, the data file has the general structure of the Cartesian product data file that we define next Let c and t be positive integers. Let G = {I, 2,'" , c Let A = {I, 2"" , t}; each member of A will be called an attribute. A function f : A --+ G maps each attribute to a value in G; we wish to consider f as a set of t ordered pairs i,j i,j G}, and call members of I items. Finally, we let V be the set of all functions from A to G \(so "record of the data file and "function from A to G" are equivalent notions IVI = IGIIAI = d. Hence size\(V V, 1 c, t  sian product data file. Wherec = 2 andt = 3 and item \(1, 1 is written as aI, item \(1,2 2, j  ten as bj \(for j = 1,2 3, j of 8 records al, b1, cl}, {al, b1, c2}, {al, b2, cl}, {al, b2, c2 a2, b1, cl}, {a2, b1, c2}, {a2, b2, cl}, {a2, b2, c2 In a 3-question questionnaire where attribute 1 is gender male or female low, high attribute 3 is income \(low, high  spond to the results of the polling of 8 respondents where by some coincidence the 8 respondents were distributed equally among the 8 possible outcomes Where the minimum support threshold is set at 1, the number of frequent sets of size j is G frequent sets is L:?=o G e + 1 sizes of frequent sets is L:?=o j G e + 1 suppt\( Fk1  sets is G The support of each frequent k-set s is et-k because s has a determined value in k attributes; there are t - k attributes on which the value is not determined, so there are et-k ways to extend s to a function from A to C F \(1 by computing the sum L:i=o suppt\(Fk1 3 A lower bound for Apriori In this section we develop a lower bound on the compu  tational complexity of Apriori. This bound takes two forms one for arbitrary minimum support threshold \(J", and one specifically for \(J" = 1. From this we will obtain a lower bound for the two data file families Apriori's method of generating frequent sets is to gener  ate candidates and then to read the data file to compute the support of the candidates. It computes the support of candi  dates by initializing support at zero, and then incrementing support whenever a record containing the candidate is en  countered. Accordingly, the computational complexity of Apriori is at least as great as the number of incrementations that are performed, namely L: sEF suPpt\(s This ignores candidates that are not frequent  sition Proposition 2 Using Apriori, the execution time to gener  ate all frequent sets is D \(suppt\( F Where \(J" = 1, this takes the following form Corollary 3 Where the minimum support threshold \(J" is 1, the execution time of Apriori is D\(L:rEV 2Irl suppt\(F Proof. This follows from Proposition 2 by counting pairs r,s Organize the count by frequent set s: s is the second member of suppt\( s L: {suppt\(s Organize the count by record r: each record r is the first 


Organize the count by record r: each record r is the first member of 21rl pairs, since \(where \(J" = 1 is in F Thus, L:{suppt\(s We note that both bounds hold for any frequent set gen  eration algorithm that determines support of a frequent set by a succession of incrementations Also, both bounds hold regardless of whether Apriori uses or omits pruning while generating candidates Let V be the data file CP\(e , t bound on the computational complexity of Apriori on V where the minimum support threshold \(J" ::; et/2. We start with a lemma Lemma 1 !I' V CP\(e , t J" &lt; et/2, then suppt\(F\(CI F\(1 Proof. Let s be a k-itemset, and s be contained in at least one record \(hence the items of s are from distinct attributes of the Cartesian product file was established that suppt\( s then suppt\(s s J". In conclusion, if s E .1'\(1 CI From Section 2.2, suppt\( Fk1 suppt\( F\(1  angle \(multiplied by et F\(CI values on the left half of row t of the Pascal triangle \(multi  plied by et F\(CI F\(1 Proposition 4 !I'V = CP\(e , t J" ::; et/2, then the time complexity of Apriori is D\(2tet Proof. By Lemma 1 and Section 2.2, suppt\( F \(CI suppt\( F\(1 F\(CI bound on the computational complexity of Apriori, then Apriori takes D\(2tet Next we establish a lower bound on the time compexity of Apriori on the limited power set data file Proposition 5 !I'V  P\(n,::; t J" ::; \(n the time complexity of Apriori is D\(2t G Proof. \(t /2 since their support is easily seen to be \(n 2 2 frequent Hence suppt\(F\(CI Ii i ::; t/2, suPPt\(Ii It-i by Proposition l \(b then suppt\( F\(CI F\(l time of Apriori on  P \(n,::; t J" ::; \(n 2 2 D \(suppt\( F\(CI L:rEV2r G 4 FP-growth In [7] Han, Pei and Yin introduced the new algorithm FP  growth. Two of its features are that the algorithm avoids the candidate generation of Apriori, and that its data structure the FP-tree file itself In [7] it is suggested that items be ordered from most frequent to least. However, in the variant of FP-growth we treat here, items are in an arbitrary order, which is fixed throughout execution. Where b is an item, we use I &lt;b to represent the set of items that precede b. Also, we will refer to suffixes of itemsets: let s, s' be subsets of I; s' is a suffix of s if \(letting the first element of s' be b when writing elements of s in ascending order, the tail of the list equals s The data file is represented by an FP-tree, which basi  cally is a prefix tree or trie. In addition, there is a list of headers, one per frequent item, plus item links or horizontal links which form all nodes of the tree corresponding to an item b into a linked list having the header for b as head of the linked list In [7] it is established that the number of nodes \(exclud  ing the root 


ing the root data file. The notion of prefix-closed will enable us to say more. A database D is said to be prefix-closed if for each record in D, every prefix of it is also in D Proposition 6 If D is prefix-closed and has no repeated records, then the number of nodes in the FP-tree for D equals the number of records in D Proof. This is most easily seen if one constructs the FP-tree, processing from the shortest records in D, progres  sively to the longest. The first record to process would then be 0, i.e. the record containing no items; after processing it, the FP-tree has 1 node, the root. Each subsequent record would cause 1 additional node to be adjoined to the tree. D Although most databases are not prefix-closed, this proposition is still useful for them, as follows. If one can count the number of records that must be added to make the database prefix-closed, this proposition allows us to deter  mine the number of nodes in the FP-tree \(since the number of nodes in the FP-tree does not change while making the database prefix-closed This principle may also be stated Proposition 7 For any data file D, the number of nodes in the FP-tree for D equals the number of distinct prefixes of records in D Let D be a database and T be the FP-tree for D. For an item b, the conditional database or residual database con  ditioned on b will be represented Rb\(D the set of truncated records r n I &lt;b where r is a record of D containing b: Rb\(D  ditional FP-tree or residual FP-tree conditioned on b will be represented as Rb\(T to Rb\(D FP-growth is a Divide and Conquer algorithm. The di  vide step is to create a series of residual FP-trees. There is nothing to do in the conquer step. As any divide and conquer algorithm, this algorithm solves "small" problem instances directly, and smashes "large" problem instances into several smaller ones \(and makes a recursive call for each a FP-tree T and have as its goal the generation of all fre  quent sets having some itemset a as suffix. If T is not a path \(i.e., if this problem instance is "large item b that is frequent in T, the residue Rb\(T and a recursive call is made, for the purpose of generating all frequent sets having {b } U a as suffix The main routine of this divide and conquer algorithm constructs the initial FP-tree to represent the database, and makes the initial call to the recursive subroutine. The pseu  docode here is the same for FP-growth and its variant; they differ from each other in the procedure for constructing residual trees FP-growth\(D 1. /* Goal: given DB D, to generate all frequent itemsets 2. Construct the FP-tree for database D; call it T 3. a = O 4. recursive-FP-growth\(T, a of this call is to generate all fs. having a as suffix, i.e. all f.s recursive-FP-growth\(T, a 1. /* Goal: generate all fs. having a as suffix T is the FP-tree representing the set of records containing a as subset 2. If T is a single path then 3. Generate all fs. of the form j3 U a where j3 is a subset of the item headers of T 4. Else 5. Print "f.s. a has support" T.root.support 6. For each item header in T 7. Let b be the item of that header S. Construct the residue Rb \(T 


S. Construct the residue Rb \(T 9. recursive-FP-growth\(Tb1 b U a Goal of the recursive call: generate all fs. having b U a as suffix We give an overview of the process of constructing a residual FP-tree. In [7, 6, p.242] it is specified that the residual tree be constructed by first constructing the residual database, and then from the residual database constructing the residual tree. Instead, we will construct the residual tree directly Let T be a FP-tree and b an item appearing in T. The residue Rb\(T header for b and following the horizontal links so as to en  counter all the b-nodes in T. At each b-node, travel upward to find and mark all its ancestors. Sometimes \(for example when the minimum support threshold 0" is 1 tree is isomorphic to the set of marked nodes and the copy  ing process is straightforward. Other times, consolidation of paths occurs, because some items in J &lt;b become not fre  quent. An algorithm to construct the residual tree is pre  sented in [9], and is linear in the number of nodes marked in the parent tree, even when consolidation occurs. This lin  earity may fail to hold in the standard FP-growth algorithm because of sorting of items when constructing the residual tree 4.1 Time complexity of the variant of FP-growth Proposition 8 The time complexity of the variant of FP  growth on a database D equals the sum of the following three quantities  size\(D f the number qf items in all records  the sum of the number of nodes in unconsolidated residual FP-trees  the size of the output, i.e. the sum of the number of items in all frequent sets Proof. From the pseudocode above, it is clear that the computational complexity of the execution time is the sum of the three quantities  time to read data file D and construct the original FP  tree. The time to read D is 8\(size\(D  nal FP-tree can be constructed in the same time bound  time to construct all residual FP-trees. By choosing to construct each residual FP-tree directly from its parent FP-tree, the time to construct it is linear in the number of nodes of the parent tree marked during the process of constructing it. If no consolidation occurs, this num  ber equals the number of nodes in the FP-tree being constructed  time to write frequent sets Each of these three quantities is linear in the correspond  ing quantity in the statement of the proposition. D 5 Complexity of the variant of FP-growth on CP\(c,t Let D be the Cartesian product data file CP\(c, t will perform the analysis supposing that the ordering on items is what we call the standard ordering: if items a and b are of attributes i and j respectively and i &lt; j, then a &lt; b Also, throughout this section, the minimum support thresh  old is 1 The number of nodes in the FP-tree for CP \(c, t the number of distinct prefixes occurring the the input file The prefixes of size 1 are precisely the items of attribute 1: each record contains 1 item of attribute 1, and it will be the first item in ct-l records. In general, the prefixes of size j are all j-tuples of items, where the ith coordinate is filled by an item of attribute i \(1 ::; i ::; j number of prefixes occurring in the input file is L?=o cj cHI -1 c - 1 for the file is the same Let T be the FP-tree for CP\(c, t we simplify the notation for the residue of 8: Rs\(T 


we simplify the notation for the residue of 8: Rs\(T be written as R\(8 write R\(b k, the residual FP-tree R\(b for CP\(c, k - 1 encountered in the execution of the variant of FP-growth on CP\(c, t with the standard ordering CP\(c, u Proposition 9 The sum of the sizes of all residues \(exclud  ing the original FP-tree C + 1 cj -1 c1 c + l Proof. Where 8 ? J, a residue R\(8 iff 8 contains at most one item of each attribute \(hence 8 is contained in at least one record 8 = {bl, b2    bj} where bl &lt; b2 &lt; ... bj, and let bl be of attribute k. Then R\( 8 for CP\(c, k - 1 8 ck - 1 c -1 the number of subsets 8' of J such that R\( 8 to R\( 8 c + 1 attribute k is such a 8' and 8' can be constructed by choosing an arbitrary item in attribute k, and for each attribute after k either choosing an item of that attribute or choosing no item of that attribute \(c + 1 alternatives in all residues is L?=l c\(c + l ck -1 c - 1 To establish an upper bound on this quantity: let a j c\( c + 1 cj - 1 c - 1  terested in is L?=l aj. It may be verified that the sequence aI, a2, ... at is a decreasing sequence. Hence L?=l aj &lt tal = tc\(c+ l Proposition 10 The time complexity of the variant of FP  growth on CP\(c, t with 0" = 1, and the standard ordering on items tc\(c + l Proof. The execution time of the algorithm on CP \(c, t with the standard ordering on items is the sum of 3 quanti  ties D  size\(V namely tct  the sum of the sizes of all FP-trees generated \(namely the \(ct+1 - 1 c - 1 plus at most tc\(c + l  the sum of the number of items in all frequent sets namely tc\(c + l 6 Complexity of the variant of FP-growth on  P\(n,:::; t In this section we establish the computational complex  ity of the variant of FP-growth on the limited power set data file. In this section, the minimum support threshold 0" is 1. Results of this section then provide an upper bound on the time complexity with higher support thresholds. Most proofs are omitted in this section The FP-tree for  P\(n, ? t T  P\(n, ? t   P\(n, ? t is \(2t has fhat many records We will say that two FP-trees are isomorphic if they are isomorphic as trees, and in addition their horizontal links are preserved. In short, they have the same structure. By contrast, the supports of nodes need not be preserved If two FP-trees are isomorphic and their corresponding data files are prefix closed, then the data files have the property that, after deleting duplicate records, some bijection from the items of the first data file to the items of the second car  ries the first data file to the second We will want to know the size \(and structure FP-trees that are constructed during execution of variant  FPgrowth on  P \(n, ? t fall in the same family as their parent tree Proposition ll The ak residue qlT  P\(n,? t  morphic to T  P\(k - 1, ? t - 1 l Proof. The residual data file consists of all records of  P\(n, ? t 


 P\(n, ? t the intersection of each such record with I &lt;ak Each such record \(intersected with I &lt;ak I&lt;ak and has at most t - 1 items \(since each initially con  tained ak  P\(k - 1, ? t - 1 Conversely, for each record 7" in  P\(k-l, ? t-l is a record in  P\(n, ? t This result may be generalized to the following Proposition 12 Where a is a set ql items \(1 ? lal ? t having a k as its first item, the a residue ql T  P \(n, ? t is isomorphic to T  P\(k -1, ? t -Ial We define: the size of a FP-tree is the number of nodes in it \(including the root Proposition 13 The total number of nodes in all residues generated by variant-FPgrowth on the data file  P\(n, ? t n-l n-2   Proposition 14 The computational complexity of the vari  ant of FP-growth on  P\(n, ? t n \(?t Proof. The computational complexity of this algorithm  P\(n, ? t  The size of the input file. This quantity is n \(2t  The sum of the sizes of residual FP-trees. This quan  tity is n \(2t 2t-=-22 8\(n\(?t-=-1   The sum of the sizes of the frequent sets. This equals the size of the input file 7 Results In this section we compare the computational complexity of Apriori and variant-FPgrowth on the two families of files First we compare the two algorithms on the Cartesian product file CP\(c, t 0" is no more than ct/2. We will show that as t increases unboundedly, the ratio of the execution time of Apriori ver  sus the execution time of variant-FPgrowth also grows un  boundedly. More exactly, where fA and f F are respec  tively the execution time of Apriori and variant-FPgrowth on CP\(c, t with the minimum support threshold at most d/2 4/3 Proof. By Proposition 4, fA E O\(2tct It has been shown in Proposition 9 that, when the min  imum support threshold is 1, the number of nodes in all FP-trees generated by variant-FPgrowth \(and hence the ex  ecution time of variant-FPgrowth tc\(c + l is easy to see that, as the minimum support threshold in  creases, the number of nodes and execution time of variant  FPgrowth decrease. Hence fF E O\(tc\(c + l fAI iF E O\(\(4/3 c + 1 least 413 for all c. D Next we compare the computational complexity of the two algorithms on the limited power set data file  P\(n t C By Proposition 14, the computational complexity of variant-FPgrowth on  P\(n,::; t J" 1 is e\(n\(?t t since t ::; .4n J" increases, the  execution time of variant  FPgrowth does not rise; hence for all values of \(J", variant  FPgrowth is an O\( t Since the time complexity of variant-FPgrowth is o \(t G 2 t G  ori is unboundedly slower than variant-FPgrowth, as t be  comes large \(and t ::; . 4n 8 Conclusion We have shown that a variant of FP-growth is unbound  edly faster than Apriori on two families of data files, as the data files become unboundedly large and the largest record simultaneously becomes large It has been observed [8] that there are two basic families 


It has been observed [8] that there are two basic families of frequent set generation algorithms. One family, includ  ing Apriori, generates candidates and then determines their support by reading the data file. The other family \(including FP-growth bound \(Proposition 2 valid for any algorithm in the first family that maintains the data file as a list of records. This suggests that algorithms in the first family might consider maintaining the data base as a trie, such as the FP-tree References 1] http://fimi.cs.helsinki.fi/fimi03 2] R. Agrawal, H. Mannila, R. Srikant, H. Toivonen, and A.I. Verkamo. Fast discovery of association rules In U. Fayyad, G. Piatetsky-Shapiro, P. Smyth, and R. Uthurusamy, editors, Advances in Knowledge Dis  covery and Data Mining, pages 307-328. AAAI Press 1996 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for min  ing association rules. Technical Report RJ9839, IBM 1994 4] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for min  ing association rules. In Proc. 20th VLDB Con!, pages 487-499, 1994 5] J. de Graff, W. Kosters, W. Pijls, and V. Popova. A theoretical and practical comparison of depth first and FP-growth implementations of Apriori. In Proc. 14th Belgium-Netherlands Artif. Intel!. Con!, pages 115122,2002 6] J. Han and M. Kamber. Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques. Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, 2001 7] J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation. In Proc. 2000 ACM SIG  MOD IntI. Con! on Management of Data. ACM, 2000 8] G. Liu, H. Lu, J. Yu, W. Wang, and X. Xiao. AFOPT: an efficient implementation of pattern growth approach. In FIMI'03 Workshop \(in conjunction with ICDM 9] A.P. Sprague. On the computational complexity of Apriori and a variant of FP-growth. Technical report UAB,2004 pre></body></html 


to achieve a high degree of skewness Text documents arranged in a chronological order do appear to have a high degree of skewness and benet the PMIHP algorithm 4 Conclusions The proposed Parallel Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning PMIHP algorithm is a parallel version of our Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning MIHP algorithm and it is effective for mining frequent itemsets in large text databases The Multipass approach reduces the required memory space at each processor by partitioning the frequent items and pro cessing each partition separately Thus the number of candidate itemsets to be processed is limited at each instance The Inverted Hashing and Pruning is used to prune the local and global candidate itemsets at each processing node and it also allows each processing node to determine the other peer processing nodes to poll in order to collect the local support counts of each global candidate itemset PMIHP distributes the workload to multiple processing nodes to reduce the total mining time without incurring much parallelization overhead The average number of candidate itemsets to be counted at each processing node is much smaller than the case of sequential mining while the time for the synchronization between processing nodes to exchange the count information for the global candidate itemsets is very small compared to the total execution time PMIHP is able to exploit the natural skewed distribution of words in text databases and demonstrates a superlinear speedup as the number of processing nodes increases It has a much better performance than well-known parallel Count Distribution algorithm 2 becaus e the a v erage number of candidate itemsets to be counted at each processing node is much smaller especially when the minimum support level is low Overall the performance of PMIHP is quite scalable even when the size of the text database is large and the minimum support level is low which is the case of high workload References  R  A gra w al and R  S r i kant   Fast Al gori t h ms for M i n i n g A ssociation Rules Proc of the 20th VLDB Conf  1994 pp 487499  R Agra w a l and J C S hafer  Paral l e l M i n i n g o f A ssoci at i o n Rules IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 8 No 6 1996 pp 962969 3 M  S  C hen J Han and P  S  Y u   Dat a Mi ni ng An Overview from a Database Perspective IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 8 No 6 1996 pp 866883 4 D  W  C heung S  D L ee and Y  Xi ao  E f f ect of Dat a S k e w ness and Workload Balance in Parallel Data Mining IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 14 No 3 2002 pp 498514 5 S  M  C hung and J Y ang  A Par al l e l D i s t r i b ut i v e J oi n A l gorithm for Cube-Connected Multiprocessors IEEE Trans on Parallel and Distributed Systems  Vol 7 No 2 1996 pp 127137  R  F e l dman and H Hi rsh F i ndi ng Associ at i ons i n Col l ections of Text Machine Learning and Data Mining Methods and Applications  R Michalski I Bratko and M Kubat editors John Wiley and Sons 1998 pp 223240  R F e l dman I Dagen and H  H i rsh Mi ni ng T e xt Usi n g Keyword Distributions Journal of Intelligent Information Systems  Vol 10 No 3 1998 pp 281300  C  Fox L e x i cal Anal ysi s and S t opl i s t s   Inforamtion Retrieval Data Structures and Algorithms W.FrakesandR Baeza-Yates editors Prentice Hall 1992 pp 102130 9 M  G or don and S  Dumai s Usi ng L a t e nt S e mant i c I nde xi ng for Literature Based Discovery Journal of the Amer Soc of Info Science  Vol 49 No 8 1998 pp 674685  J Han J P e i  and Y  Y i n Mi n i n g F r equent Pat t e r n s w i t hout Candidate Generation Proc of ACM SIGMOD Intl Conf on Management of Data  2000 pp 112  J D Holt and S  M Chung Multipass Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Text Databases Knowledge and Information Systems  Vol 3 No 2 Springer-Verlag 2001 pp 168183  J D Hol t and S  M C hung Mi ni ng Associ at i o n R ul es Using Inverted Hashing and Pruning Information Processing Letters  Vol 83 No 4 Elsevier Science 2002 pp 211220  J D Hol t and S  M C hung Mi ni ng associ at i o n R ul es i n Text Databases Using Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning Proc of the 14th IEEE Intl Conf on Tools with Articial Intelligence  2002 pp 4956  J S  Park M S  C hen and P  S  Y u   Usi n g a Hash-B a sed Method with Transaction Trimming for Mining Association Rules IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 9 No 5 1997 pp 813825  G  S a l t on Automatic Text Processing The Transformation Analysis and Retrieval of Information by Computer  Addison-Wesley Publishing 1988  E  M V oorhees and D K Harmon edi t o rs The Fifth Text Retrieval Conference  National Institute of Standards and Technology 1997  O R  Z a i a ne and M L  Ant o i ne C l assi f y i n g T e x t D ocuments by Associating Terms with Text Categories Proc of the 13th Australian Database Conf  2002 0-7695-2132-0/04/$17.00 \(C Proceedings of the 18th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium \(IPDPS04 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


