A Data Mining based Approach for the EEG Transient Event Detection and Classification T.P. Exarchos 1 A.T. Tzallas 1 D.I. Fotiadis 1,2 S. Konitsiotis 3 and S. Giannopoulos 3 1 Unit of Medical Technology and Intelligent Information Systems, Dept. of Computer Science, University of Ioannina, GR 451 10 Ioannina, Greece 2 Biomedical Research Institute-FORTH, GR 451 10 Ioannina, Greece 3 Department of Neurological Clinic, University Hospital of Ioannina, GR 451 10 
Ioannina, Greece me01238@cc.uoi.gr, me00716@cc.uoi.gr, fotiadis@cs.uoi.gr, skonitso@cc.uoi.gr sgiannop@cc.uoi.gr Abstract An automated methodology which detects transient events in EEG recordings and classifies those as epileptic spikes, muscle activity, eye blinking activity and sharp alpha activity is presented.  It is based on data mining algorithms and includes four stages: \(I\ EEG preprocessing and transient events detection, \(II\ clustering of transient events and feature 
extraction, \(III\ feature discretization and \(IV\ association rule mining and classification. The methodology is evaluated using a dataset of 25 EEG recordings and the obtained overall accuracy is 84.35%. The major advantage of our approach is that it is able to provide interpretation for the decisions made since it is based on a set of association rules 1. Introduction The Electroencephalogram \(EEG\aluable clinical tool in the diagnosis, monitoring 
and management of neurological disorders. EEG can help in the diagnosis of a number of diseases, including epilepsy, sleep disorders and brain tumors. Epilepsy is characterized by the existence of abnormal synchronous discharges in large ensembles of neurons in brain structures. These discharges are often referred to as çparoxysmal activityé. They appear either during seizures \(ictal periods\ between seizures \(inter-ictal periods 
Electroencephalographers detect the  epileptiform activity visually.  However, the spikes sharp waves and spike wave complex, as all referred as epileptic spikes \(ES\e sometimes difficult to be detected reliably.  This is due to the fact that normal brain activity \(sharp alpha activity or SAA\ and human artefacts \(muscle activity or EMG and eye blinking or EOG\ can be misinterpreted as epileptic spikes. As a result the presence of epileptic activity is 
occasionally missed or incorrectly selected when manually reviewing EEG data. In addition this process is time consuming. Several methods which automatically recognize epileptic spikes are reported in the literature.  They can be classified in three categories, based on: \(i traditional recognition techniques, i.e. methods with a substantial mimetic component [1   ii\athematical transform nd \(i i i  t i f i ci al n e ura l netwo rk s [6,7,8 Howev er, m o st  
of the above methods cannot deal with the undesirable activity \(normal brain activity artefacts\Moreover, most of the methods are not able to provide interpretation for the decisions made. The proposed methodology handles these two aspects effectively In this study, we introduce a methodology based on a four-stage schema \(Fig. 1\or the transient event detection and classification. In the first stage, pre-processing of the EEG signal is performed in order to detect the candidate transient events. In the second stage, the 
transient events are clustered and feature extraction takes place. In the third stage, the continuous valued features are transformed into discrete ones using a discretization technique Proceedings of the 18th IEEE Symposium on Computer-Based Medical Systems \(CBMSê05 1063-7125/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


In the last stage association rule mining is applied to generate association rules, which are used to establish the final transient event classification model Figure 1 Flowchart of the four-stage methodology 2. Materials and Methods 2.1. First Stage: Signal pre-processing and transient event detection A data driven segmentation algorithm is used to eliminate areas of low background activity of the EEG using a thresholding procedure.  More specifically, a threshold depending on the average of the absolute value of the amplitude   N i i x N 1   1 of the whole EEG signal in each single channel of each montage is calculated, where x i represents the discrete input values and N is the number of samples. Peaks over the calculated threshold are considered as candidate transient events.  A window of constant length of 91 points \(355 msec\ed, centred at the identified peak.  If a larger peak is found within the selected window, the window is centred at this peak; otherwise the window of 91 signal points is considered as a candidate transient event.  The largest peak in a window is called vertex 2.2. Second Stage: Clustering of transient events and feature extraction First, the number of clusters of the transient events is identified.  The procedure employed for the identification of the number of clusters of transient events is based on the minimization of the regularized cost function C\(x,y       p 1 k 1 2                 C ij j i i j y x x y f y x    p i k j j i j j y y x y f I 11 2                 1 where  j I is a multiplier unique to each cluster centre        i j x y f          i j x y f are indicator functions given as EEG preprocessing and transient event detection Transient event classification Clustering of transient event and feature extraction Feature discretization Association rule mining Raw EEG recording EEG preprocessing and transient event detection Clustering of transient event and feature extraction Feature discretization Association rule mining Raw EEG recording Transient event classification Proceedings of the 18th IEEE Symposium on Computer-Based Medical Systems \(CBMSê05 1063-7125/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


    otherwise y x j if x y f m i m i j 0 min arg 1    2       and     otherwise y x  N y if x y f m i m y i i j   0 min arg 1    2               y N is the neighborhood of the cluster centre    y  n i x     is a pattern - in our case a transient event  p is the number of patterns x i  i 1,2 p  k the number of clusters and 2   min arg m i m y x  is the value of m which minimizes the norm 2   m i y x   Using k-means clustering we start choosing an initial set of prototypes, which implies the partition of the patterns into k clusters. These clusters correspond to the prototype transient events After the identification of the prototype transient events, feature extraction takes place. We extract the following six features for every prototype transient event i Duration The time between the starting point and the end point of each transient event.  It is measured from the vertex to the point where the drop of the slope is more than 60% or a change in the direction of the slope appears ii\ Area The calculated area of the EEG recording for the above calculated duration of the transient event iii 2     0 1 a a slope Average        2 where a 0 a 1 is the slope before and after the vertex x 1 respectively a 0 t x x 0 1    a 1 t x x 1 2   where x 2 x 1 x 0 are samples of the window and s F t 1   F s is the sampling rate iv   0 1 a a Sharpness        3 v\Standard Deviation    L i x i x L 1 2   1    4  where x i represents the discrete input values L is the number of samples for each transient event L 91   L i i x L x 1  represents the mean of x i  vi\ Dominant frequency The frequency at which the maximum amplitude of the power spectrum density \(PSD\is observed 2.3. Third Stage: Discretization In order to use association rule mining in the last stage of our methodology, the numerical attributes, extracted from the previous stage, must be replaced with qualitative attributes representing intervals of numerical domains with discrete values. This process is known as discretization and involves the transformation of a quantitative variable into a qualitative one The discretization approach we used is based on entropy minimization and the minimum description length principle [10 T h e a l g o ri thm uses t h e c l as s e n t r opy of can did a te p a r t i tio ns  to select a cut point for discretization. The method can then be applied recursively to the two intervals of the previous split, thus creating multiple intervals for the feature. For a set of Proceedings of the 18th IEEE Symposium on Computer-Based Medical Systems \(CBMSê05 1063-7125/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


instances S a feature A and a cut point P the class information entropy of the partition induced by P is given as                  2 2 1 1 S Ent S S S Ent S S S P A E        5 where S 1 and S 2 are two intervals of S bounded by cut point P and Ent\(S is the class entropy of a subset S For a feature A the cut point P which minimizes Eq. \(5\elected as a binary discretization boundary. The procedure is repeated until the stopping criterion, which is based on the minimum description length principle, is reached. The stopping criterion prescribes accepting a partition induced by if and only if the cost of encoding the partition and the classes of the instances in the intervals induced by P is less than the cost of encoding the classes of the instances before splitting [11 2.4. Fourth Stage: Association rule mining and classification of transient events One of the well known data mining techniques is asso cia ti on r u le m i ning 1 3] and i s  perhaps the most common form of local-pattern discovery in unsupervised learning systems Association rule mining is the discovery of association relationships or correlations among a set of items. An association rule has the form Y X  and is interpreted as èdatabase transactions that satisfy X are likely to satisfy Y  X and Y are composed of items and are called itemsets X is called the antecedent part or body of the rule and Y the consequent part or head of the rule. The most widely used framework for association rule evaluation is the support-confidence framework. The support of an association rule Y X  is the ratio of the transactions which contain the itemsets X and Y to the total number of transactions in the database. The confidence of an association rule Y X  is the ratio of the transactions that contain the itemsets X and Y to the transactions which contain the itemset X  A recent field of data mining, classification using association rules app lie s concep ts  used in association rule mining to the classification problem. Classification using association rules makes use of a special subset of association rules whose consequents are restricted to the classification class attribute. These rules are called Class Association Rules \(CARs\d after their generation, they are used to form a classification model An effective algorithm that performs classification using association rules is the Classification Based on Associations \(CBA B A firs t g enera tes a s cand id ate ru le s al l  the class association rules exceeding the given support and confidence thresholds using the apriori algorithm f ter th e r u le g e nera t i on, C B A prune s t h e set of ru le s u s ing th e  pessimistic error rate method [1 Mo re spec if ic al ly i f r u le  r s pessimistic error rate is higher than the pessimistic error rate of rule  r the latter is obtained by deleting one condition from the conditions of r rule r is pruned This pruning procedure can cut down the generated number of rules substantially. In the testing phase, the above obtained rules are used for classification. When predicting the class label for an example, the best rule \(i.e. the one having highest confidence\ whose body is satisfied by the example is chosen for prediction That is, the unknown example is assigned the class of the rule with the highest confidence that covers it 3. Results The proposed methodology is evaluated using the EEGs from 25 patients \(12 normal and 13 epileptic\ which have been acquired in the Neurology Department at the University Hospital of Ioannina, Greece.  More specifically, the EEG dataset consists of 1232 prorotype Proceedings of the 18th IEEE Symposium on Computer-Based Medical Systems \(CBMSê05 1063-7125/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


transient events: 327 epileptic spikes, 378 muscle activity, 134 eye blinking activity and 393 sharp alpha activity all characterized by two experienced neurologists. The training set includes 50% of the prototypes from each category, while the test set consists of the rest. The training set is used to both extract the discretization intervals and generate the class association rules. The performance of the methodology was measured by means of Sensitivity, Specificity, and Selectivity Table 1: Classification results for the CBA algorithm in terms of Sensitivity Specificity, Selectivity Transient Events Sensitivity Specificity Selectivity ES 83.94 91.07 81.56 EMG 85.04 95.75 89.26 EOG 72.5 99.24 90.63 SAA 87.90 90.20 78.42 We run several experiments in order to test the accuracy of our methodology. The best results \(84.35% overall accuracy\ obtained using minimum support 1% and minimum confidence 50% for the CBA algorithm. Two other rule based classification algorithms, CN2  and RI PPER [17] w e re a l so em ploy ed bu t w e  obta ined low e r  accu ra cy  82.56 an d  81.63% overall accuracy for RIPPER and CN2, respectively\able 1 displays the experimental results obtained. All the tested algorithms performed comparably but the CBA algorithm was found to be the most efficient. It should be mentioned that the CBA algorithm generated 100 rules. 35 of them were rules which predicted epileptic spikes, 24 predicted muscle activity, 10 predicted eye blinking activity and the rest 31 predicted sharp alpha activity. Some indicative rules are shown below Rule 1                                                                Rule 2 If Area = \(195.2975, 18  I f Durat ion inf, 22 5189  and Sharpness = \(2.31891, 3.93423  and Av erag e Slope  0.054 067 0.077462  Then Transient Event is ES                               Then Transient Event is EMG Support=6.744%, Confidence= 100.000\\(Support=9.302%, Confidence= 100.000 4. Discussion-Conclusions In the current study, we introduce a four-stage procedure for the automated detection and classification of transient events in EEG recordings. All steps in the proposed methodology are realized automatically. In the first stage the EEG signal is preprocessed and transient event detection takes place. In the second stage the transient events are clustered and feature extraction is realized. In the third stage the extracted features are discretized using recursive minimal entropy partitioning and the minimum description length principle. Finally in the last stage association rule-based classification is applied to the discretized set of features in order to extract rules to classify the new transient events In Table 2, the results of the proposed methodology are compared to those of other approaches. Our approach shows comparable or better performance. The majority of the reported works [1 ad dres s on ly spik e det ect ion where the n u m b er of f a l s e posi tiv es du e  to spike-like artefacts \(EMG, EOG\ and sharp alpha activity in EEG is high. Our methodology deals with the undesirable activity \(EMG, EOG, SAA\y detecting it and  Proceedings of the 18th IEEE Symposium on Computer-Based Medical Systems \(CBMSê05 1063-7125/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


classifying it into the appropriate categories successfully. Thus, our approach can only be directly compared with [6 a neu ral n e two rk based m e thod which cl ass if ies t h e tr ans ien t  events in all four categories. Furthermore, most of these methods are bas e d on neur a l  and mathematical approaches. Such methods exhibit a serious drawback compared to our association rule approach, due to their inability to provide explanations for their classification decisions. In contrast, due to the rule-based nature of our methodology, the proposed approach satisfies this requirement, and it is able to provide for each transient event, the reason that led to each decision. Finally, the performance of the transient event classification methodology was high, however further clinical testing is considered as mandatory in order to fully reveal its potential Table 2: Comparison of the performance of several methods for spike detection Author #EEG Se\(%\ Sel\(%\ Sp Hosteler et al. [1 5 59 89  Dingle et al. [2 11 53 100  Adjouadi et al 31 82 92  Tzallas et al. [6 25 8085 7790 9097 Acir et al 29 89 86  This work 25 84 82 91 References 1   W  H o s t e tle r, H  D o lle r, a n d W  H o m a n, A s s e s s m e nt of a c o m pute r pr og ram to de te c t e p ile p tif orm s p ik es  Electroenceph. Clin. Neurophysiol. 83 \(1992\1-11 2  A  A  D i ng l e  R  D  J o ne s G  J   Ca rr o l l a n d W   R  Fr ig h t A  m u lt is ta g e  sy ste m t o  de te c t e p i l e p tif orm  activity in the EEG, IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng. 40 \(1993\ 1260-1268 3   J  G o t m a n a nd L  W a ng Sta te de pe nde nt s p ik e de te c tion: v a lida t i on Ele c t roe nc e p h  Cli n N e uro ph y s iol. 83  1992\ 12-18 4   M. A d joua di M. Ca bre riz o, M   A y a l a  D  Sa nc he z  I. Y a y l a li, P   J a y a k a r A  Ba rre to, D e te c tion of Inte ric ta l  Spikes and Artefactual Data through Orthogonal Transformations, Journal of Clinical Neurophysiology, 22 2005\ 53-64 5   L  Se nha g ji, F. W e ndli ng Ep il e p tic tra nsie nt de te c tion w a ve le ts a nd tim e f r e que nc y a pproa che s  Clin  Neurophysiology, 32 \(2002 6   A  T  T z a lla s, C. D. Ka tsis, P  S Ka rv e lis, D.I. Fotiadis  S. Ko nits i o tis a n d S. G i a nno po ul os Cla s s i fic a tion of  transient events in EEG recordings, in Proc. 2nd Int. Conf. Adv.  Biomed. Signal Inf. Process. Malta  2004 14-20 7   N. A c ir, I. Oz tura M. Kunta l p B. Ba lk a n a nd C. G u z e lis, A u tom a tic de te c tion of Epile p tic f o rm Ev e n ts in  EEG by a Three Stage Procedure Based on Artificial Neural Networks, IEEE, Trans. on Biomed. Eng. 52 2005\ 30-40    L  T a ra ssen ko  Y U K h an  an d M  R G  Ho l t  Id ent i f i cat i o n  o f i n t e r-i ct al sp i k es i n  t h e E E G  u s i n g n e u r al  network analysis, in Proc. IEE Sci. Meas. Technol., 145 \(1998\ 270-278 9   R. Kotha ri a n d D Pitts, O n f i ndi ng the n u m b e r  of c l uste rs, P a tt R e c   L e tte rs 20 \(1 99 9 0541 6 10 U. M. Fa y y a d a nd K. B. Ira ni, Mu lti-i nte rv a l disc re tiz a tion o f  c ontin uo us-v a l ue d a ttrib ute s f o r c l a ssi f i c a tion   learning, in Proc. of the Thirteenth Int. Joint Conf. on Artif. Intel. \(1993\1022Ö1027 11   J  Ris s a ne n, M ode li ng by s horte s t da ta de s c ripti on  Automatica 14, \(1978\ 265-271 12   U  M. Fa y y a d G  P i a t e t s k y Sha piro, a nd P. Sm y t h, From da ta  m i n i ng to k now le dg e dis c o v e r y  a n ov e r v i ew  in Advances in Knowledge discovery and data mining, AAAI Press/MIT Press \(1996\36 13   R. Ag ra wa l, a nd R. Srik a n t, Fa st a l g o rithm s  f o r m i ning a ssoc ia tion rule s, in P r oc 20 th Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases, Santiago, Chile \(1994\87-499 14   B. L i u, W  H s u, a n d Y   Ma I n te g r a ting c l a s s i f i c a tion a n d a s s o c i a tion rule m i ning i n  P r oc  o f the 4th    International Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD-98\ew York, USA, \(1998\ 80-86 15   J. R. Qu i n lan  C4  5  Programs for Machine Learning Los Altos, California: Morgan Kaufmann, 1993 16  P. Clark an d R Bo sw ell. Ru le i nduct io n w ith CN2 S o m e r ecen t im p r o v e m en ts. In Y Kod rato f f  ed ito r   Machine Learning - EWSL-91 pages 151-163, Berlin, 1991. Springer-Verlag 17   W illia m W  Cohe n Fa st e f fe c tive rule i n d u c tio n. I n  Proc. of ICML-95 pages 115Ö123. Morgan Kaufmann July 9Ö12, 1995 Proceedings of the 18th IEEE Symposium on Computer-Based Medical Systems \(CBMSê05 1063-7125/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


   retail dataset 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 0.17 0.11 0.08 Support Time in seconds BifoldLeap \(Q only DualMiner \(Q only BifoldLeap \(P only DualMiner \(P only BifoldLeap \(P & Q DualMiner \(P & Q retail dataset 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 0.17 0.11 0.08 Support Time in seconds BifoldLeap \(Q only DualMiner \(Q only BifoldLeap \(P only DualMiner \(P only BifoldLeap \(P & Q DualMiner \(P & Q retail dataset 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 0.17 0.11 0.08 Support Time in seconds BifoldLeap \(P & Q DualMiner \(P & Q Figure 2 A Pushing   and  B More selective constraints C Extremely selective constraints dataset with absolute support equal to 25 50 and 75 using the two different distributions We used a modiìed version of MAFIA with post-processing as the post-processing counterpart to Dualminer Our implementation of Dualminer always tests minimum support and P together while BifoldLeapês minimum support checks occur at different times and do not contribute to the count for  Figure 4 depicts the results of these experiments Our rst observation is that Dualminer performs a huge number of constraint evaluations as compared to BifoldLeap Even in cases where we only generated 255 patterns Dualminer needed more than 50 thousand evaluations for both and  compared to almost 6 thousand needed by BifoldLeap Our second observation is that MAFIA with post-processing requires fewer constraint evaluations than Dualminer retail dataset 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 0.17 0.11 0.08 Support Time in seconds BifoldLeap \(z-distribution DualMiner \(z-distribution BifoldLeap \(uniform-distribution DualMiner \(uniform-distribution Figure 3 A Scalability test B Effect of changing the price distribution 5.4 Different Distributions All of our experiments were conducted using uniform and/or zipf price distributions In most of the experiments we found that the effect of changing the distribution on Dualminer was greater than for BifoldLeap This can be justiìed by the effectiveness of the pruning techniques used by BifoldLeap that also reduce the number of candidate checks which consequently affected its performance Figure 3.B depicts one of these results for the retail dataset 6 Related work Mining frequent patterns with constraints has been studied in where the concept of monotone and anti-monotone and Figure 4 No of and evaluations using constraint pushing vs post-processing succinct were introduced to prune the search space Jian Pei et al 14 h a v e also generalized these tw o classes of constraints and introduced a new convertible constraint class In their work they proposed a new algorithm called which is an FP-Growth based algorithm This algorithm generates most frequent patterns before pruning them Its main contribution is that it checks for monotone constraints early and once a frequent itemset is found to satisfy the monotone constraint then all itemsets having this item as a preìx are sure to satisfy the constraint and consequently there is no need to apply further checks Dualminer is the rst algorithm to mine both types of constraints at the same time Nonetheless it suffers from many practical limitations and performance issues First it is built on the top of the MAFIA algorithm which produces the set of maximal patterns and consequently all frequent patterns generated using this model do not have their support attached Second it assumes that the whole dataset can t in main memory which is not always the case FP-Growth and our approach use a very condensed representation namely FPTree which uses signiìcantly less memory Third their top-down computation exploiting the monotone constraint often performs many useless tests for relatively large datasets which raises doubts about the performance gained by pushing constraints in the Dualminer algorithm In a recent study of par7 Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDMê05 1550-4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


allelizing Dualminer 16 the authors sho wed that by mining relatively small sparse datasets consisting of 10K transactions and 100K items the sequential version of Dualminer took an excessive amount of time Unfortunately the original authors of Dualminer did not show any single experiment to depict the execution time of their algorithm but only the reduction in predicate executions A recent strate gy dealing with monotone and anti-monotone constraints suggests reducing the transactional database input via pre-processing by successively eliminating transactions that violate the constraints and then applying any frequent itemset mining algorithm on the reduced transaction set 4 The main drawback of this approach is that it is highly I/O bound due to the iterative process needed in rewriting the reduced dataset to disk This algorithm is also sensitive to the results of the initial monotone constraint checking which is applied to full transactions In other words if a whole transaction satisìes the monotone constraint then no pruning is applied and consequently no gains are achieved even if parts of this transaction do not satisfy the same monotone constraint To overcome some of the issues in the same approach has been tested against the FP-Growth approach in with ne w effective pruning heuristics 7 Conclusion Since the introduction of association rules a decade ago and the launch of the research in efìcient frequent itemset mining the development of effective approaches for mining large transactional databases has been the focus of many research studies Furthermore it is widely recognized that mining for frequent items or association rules regardless of its efìciency usually yields an overwhelming crushing number of patterns This is one of the reasons it is argued that the integration of data mining and database management technologies is required These large sets of discovered patterns could be queried Expressing constraints using a query language could indeed help sift through the large pattern set to identify the useful ones We argue that pushing the consideration of these constraints at the mining process before discovering the patterns is an efìcient and effective way to solve the problem This does not exclude the integration of data mining and database systems but suggests the need for data mining query languages intricately integrated with the data mining process In this paper we address the issue of early consideration of monotone and anti-monotone constraints in the case of frequent itemset mining We propose a leap traversal approach BifoldLeap  that traverses the search space by jumping from relevant node to relevant node and simultaneously checking for constraint violations The approach we propose uses existing data structures FP-tree and COFI-tree but introduces new pruning techniques to reduce the search costs We conducted a battery of experiments to evaluate our constraint-based search and report a fraction of them herein for lack of space The experiments show the advantages of pushing both monotone and anti-monotone constraints as early as possible in the mining process despite the overhead of constraint checking We also compared our algorithm to Dualminer a state-of-the-art algorithm in constraint-based frequent itemset mining and showed how our algorithm outperforms it and can nd all frequent itemsets the closed and the maximal patterns that satisfy constraints along with their exact supports References  R Agra w al T  Imielinski and A Sw ami Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases In Proc 1993 ACM-SIGMOD Int Conf Management of Data  pages 207Ö216 Washington D.C May 1993  R Agra w a l and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules In Proc 1994 Int Conf Very Large Data Bases  pages 487Ö499 Santiago Chile September 1994  I Almaden Quest synthetic data generation code http://www.almaden.ibm.com/software/quest/Resources/index.shtml  F  Bonchi F  Giannotti A Mazzanti and D Pedreschi Examiner Optimized level-wise frequent pattern mining with monotone constraints In IEEE ICDM  Melbourne Florida November 2004  F  Bonchi and B Goethals Fp-bonsai the art of gro wing and pruning small fp-trees In Paciìc-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining PAKDDê04  pages 155Ö160 2004  F  Bonchi and C Lucchese On closed constrained frequent pattern mining In IEEE International Conference on Data Mining ICDMê04  Brighton UK November 2004  C Bucila J Gehrk e D Kifer  and W  White Dualminer A dual-pruning algorithm for itemsets with constraints In Eight ACM SIGKDD Internationa Conf on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  pages 42Ö51 Edmonton Alberta August 2002  D Burdick M Calimlim and J Gehrk e Maìa A maximal frequent itemset algorithm for transactional databases In ICDE  pages 443Ö452 2001  S Chaudhuri Data mining and database systems Where is the intersection Bulletin of the Technical Committee on Data Engineering  21 March 1998  M El-Hajj and O R Za  ane Non recursive generation of frequent k-itemsets from frequent pattern tree representations In Proc of 5th International Conference on Data Warehousing and Knowledge Discovery DaWakê2003  September 2003  Frequent itemset mining implementations repository  http://ìmi.cs.helsinki  J Han J Pei and Y  Y in Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation In ACM-SIGMOD  Dallas 2000  L Lakshmanan R Ng J Han and A P ang Optimization of constrained frequent set queries with 2-variable constraints In ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data  pages 157Ö168 1999  J Pie and J Han Can we push more constraints into frequent pattern mining In ACM SIGKDD Conference  pages 350Ö354 2000  J Pie J Han and L Lakshmanan Mining frequent itemsets with convertible constraints In IEEE ICDE Conference  pages 433Ö442 2001  R M T ing J Baile y  and K Ramamohanarao P aradualminer An efìcient parallel implementation of the dualminer algorithm In Eight Paciìc-Asia Conference PAKDD 2004  pages 96Ö105 Sydney Australia May 2004  O R Za  ane and M El-Hajj Pattern Lattice Traversal by Selective Jumps In In Proc 2005 Intêl Conf on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery ACM SIGKDD Chicago IL USA  pages 729Ö735 August 2005 8 Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDMê05 1550-4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


on the intention to use self- and e-assessment center as well as the influence of PQI, PCS and PTS on PU it might represent a single example for a specific economy, country or cultural region . There might be differences for the intention of different informnation systems with different settings. Future research should discuss this issue more detailed  Furthermore our questionnaire was just answered by large-scale corporations in Germany. So our results might not be directly transferred to small and medium-sized enterprises  In addition, as we collected our data from participants at the same time using the same survey our results may be affected by common method varian  6. Conclusion  Self-assessment and e-assessment as online games in staff recruiting are a valuable solution for companies to support on the one side their employer branding activities and on the other side the selection of the favored candidate. The case study of our papers shows that companies can generate more qualified applications and concurrently save time and money. Based on these findings our empirical research with 191 of the Top-1000 companies of Germany provide statistical evidence that perceived quality improvements, perceived cost savings and perceived time savings are the main reasons beside perceived usefulness and ease of use why companies intend to use self- and e-assessment in their recruiting processes  References   Bago zzi  R  P   T h e Ro l e  of M easu r e m en t i n T h eo ry Construction and Hypothesis Testing: Toward a Holistic Model", in: Conceptual and Theoretical Developments in Marketing, O.C. Ferrell, S.W. Brown and C.W. Lamb eds.\ago, pp. 15-32, 1979 2 Ba g o z z i R  P  a n d Y i  Y   O n t h e Ev a l ua tio n of  Structural Equation Models", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science \(16\pp 74-94, 1988 3 Ba rtra m  D Testing on the Internet: Issues Challenges and Opportunities in the field of Occupational Assessments in: D. Bartram, and R.K. Hambleton \(eds Computer-Based Testing and the Internet: Issues and Advances, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Chichester, England 2006 4 B r o w n, S  A  a nd Ve nk a t e s h V  Model of Adoption of Technology in Households: A Baseline Model Test and Extension Incorporating Household Life Cycle MIS Quarterly \(29:3\pp.399-426, 2005  Bu zzetto M o r e N A   and A l ad e A  J   Best Practices in e-Assessment Journal of Information Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 251-269 6 Ca lig iuri P  M., a n d P h i llips J.M An application of self-assessment realistic job previews to expatriate assignments The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 2003, Vol. 14, No. 7, pp. 11021116 7 Ca rm ine s E. G  Ze lle r R A  1979 Re lia bil ity a nd Validity Assessment. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage Publications 8 Ca s c io, W  F A pplie d P s y c ho log y in H u m a n Re s ourc e  Management, Prentice Hall, Englewood, Cliffs, NJ, 1998 9 Cha p p e ll, D Ea t oug h V D a v i e s M.N  O  a n d  Griffiths, M EverQuest It s Just a Comupter Game Right? An Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis of Online Gaming Addicition International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction, Vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 205-216 10 C h in, W  W  T he P a rtia l L e a s t Squa re s A pproa c h to  Structural Equation Modelling", in: Modern methods for business research, G.A. Marcoluides \(ed.\, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, London, pp. 295-336, 1998 11 Ch in, W  W  F re que ntly A s k e d Q u e s tions  Partial Least Squares & PLS-Graph", 2000 12 hill J. R a n d G ilbe r t, A  A P a ra dig m  f o r Developing Better Measures of Marketing Constructs  Journal of Marketing Research 15 \(2\pp. 77-94, 1979 13 C o n nol ly T a nd Sta n s f ie ld M  Using GamesBased eLearning Technologies in Overcoming Difficulties in Teaching Information Systems Journal of International Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 459-476 14 D a v i s  F. D   1 9 89  P e r c e i v e d U s ef ulne s s  P e r c e i v e d Ease of Use and User Acceptance of Information Technology. MIS Quarterly, 13:3, pp. 319-339 15 D o ll, W  J A  H e ndric k s on, a n d X  D e ng  Using Davis s Perceived Usefulness and Ease-of-use Instruments for Decision Making: A Confirmatory and Multigroup Invariance Analysis  Decision Sciences 29\(4\, 1998, pp 839-869 16 Eis e n h a r dt, K   M. \(1 98 9 ilding T h e o rie s f r om Ca s e  Study Research, Academy of Management Review, 14, 4 532-550 17  Fa e r be r, F  K e im T a nd W e itz e l T  An Automated Recommendation Approach to Personnel Selection  In: Proceedings of the 2003 Americas Conference on Information Systems; Tampa 18  Fe ng M H e ff e r na n, N  T a nd K o e d ing e r, K  R  Addressing the Testing Challenge with a Web-Based EAssessment System that Tutors as it Assesses  Proceedings of the 15th international conference on World Wide Web, Edinburgh, Scotland, 2006, pp. 307-316 19  For n e ll, C a n d L a rc ke r, D F E v a lua ting S t ruc tura l  Equitation Models with Unobservable Variables and Measurement Errors", Journal of Marketing Research, 18 pp. 39-50, 1981 20 G e org e  D I., a nd Sm ith, M.C An Empirical Comparison of Self-Assessment and Organizational Assessment in Personnel Selection Public Personnel Management, 1990, Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 175-190 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


21 G r iff iths, M.D., Da v i e s  M.N.O., a nd Cha p p e ll, D  Breaking the Stereotype: The Case of Online Gaming  CyberPsychology & Behavior. January 1, 2003, Vol 6, No 1, pp. 81-91 22 Hu l l an d  J U se o f P a rtial L e a s t Sq u a res \(P L S  in   Strategic Management Research: A Review of Four Recent Studies. Strategic Management Journal, 20 \(4\, pp. 195204, 1999 23 J o ne s L a nd Fle t c h e r C  Self-assessment in a selection situation: An evaluation of different measurement approaches Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 2002, Vol. 75, pp. 145-161 24 K e im T  a nd W e itz e l  T  Strategies for Hiring IT Professionals: An Empirical Analysis of Employer and Job Seeker Behavior on the IT Labor market In: Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS\ulco, Mexico 25 L a um e r S Ec k h a r dt, A a nd W e itz e l T   Recruiting IT Professionals in a Virtual World In: Proceedings of the 12th Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems PACIS 2008\uzhou, China 2 L e e I   The Architecture for a Next-Generation Holistic E-Recruiting System Communications of the ACM, Vol. 50, No. 7, 81-85, 2007 27 L e v i ne E.L Flory  A   a nd A s h, R.A  Selfassessment in personnel selection Journal of Applied Psychology, 1977, Vol. 62, No. 4, pp. 428-435 28  Ma lho t ra Y., a n d G a lle tta D. F Extending the Technology Acceptance Model to Account for Social Influence Theoretical Bases and Empirical Validation  Proceedings of the 32 nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2 Lo u H Lu o  W  and St r ong D  2 00 0   Perceived Critical Mass Effect on Groupware Acceptance  European Journal of Information Systems 9\(2\p.91-103 30 N u nna lly J  C., a nd Be rns t e i n, I. H  Psychometric Theory 3rd ed.\ McGraw-Hill, New York, 1994 31 Phil lips  J.M  Effects of Realistic Job Previews on Multiple Organizational Outcomes: A Meta-Analysis  Academy of Management Journal, 1998, Vol. 41, No. 6 pp. 673-690 3  P o d s ako f f  P   M    M acKen zie S  B  L ee J Y  Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003\. Common Method Bias in Behavioral Research: A Critical Review of the Literature and Recommended Remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, Vol. 88, No. 5, pp. 879-903 33 Ri dg w a y  J Mc Cus k e r, S., a nd P e a d D   Literature Review of e-Assessment Nesta Future Lab, Bristol, UK 2004 3 Ry n e s S  L   Recru i t m en t   Job Choice, and Post-Hire Consequences in: M.D. Dunnette, and L.M. Hough \(eds Handbook of Industrial and Organizational Psychology Consulting Psychologists Press, Palo Alto, CA, 1991 35 Ste i nk ue hle r   C.A  Learning in massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the 6th international conference on Learning sciences, Santa Monica, California, 2004 36 U nde rw ood J  D  M Ba ny a r d P.E. a n d D a v i e s  M.N.O Students in digital worlds: Lost in Sin City or reaching Treasure Island BJEP Monograph Series II Number 5 - Learning through Digital Technologies Volume 1, Number 1, 1 July 2007 , pp. 83-99 36  Ve nk a t e s h V M o r r i s  M  G  un d A c k e r m a nn P  L   2000 A Longitudinal Field Investigation of Gender Differences in Individual Technology Adoption DecisionMaking Processes Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Vol. 83, Nr. 1, S. 33-60 3 W e i ss E  A    Self-Assessment Communications of the ACM, 1990, Vol. 33, No. 11, pp. 110-132 38 W a rd, M G r uppe n, L a n d Re g e hr, G  Measuring Self-assessment: Current State of the Art Advances in Health Sciences Education, 2002, Vol. 7, pp. 63-80 39 Y i n, R. K  20 03 s e Stu d y R e s e a r c h D e s i g n a nd Methods, Sage Publications, Inc., Thousand Oaks, London New Dehli Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


