  1 Statistical Analysis of CloudSat Data for Climate Model Parameterization Seungwon Lee, Brian H Kahn, and Joao Teixeira Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Califor nia Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive, Pasadena CA 91190 818-393-7720 seungwon.lee@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract 227The development of realistic cloud parameterizations in climate models requires accurate characterizations of sub-grid distributions of thermodynamic variables. To this end, cloud liquid water content \(CLWC\ distributions ar e characterized with respect to cloud phase, cloud type, precipitation occurrence, and geo-location using CloudSat radar measurements. The probability density function \(PDF\f CLWC is estimated 
using Maximum Likelihood Estimation. The best-estimated PDF of CLWC is found to closely follow either a gamma or a lognormal distribution depending on temperature \(cloud phase\cloud type, precipitation, and geo-location. In the regions from the lower to mid-troposphere \(altitudes of 1-6 km\and between the tropical and the subtropical latitudes where non-precipitating and pure-water phase clouds are dominant, the PDFs of CLWC are best described by lognormal distributions. In cont rast, at altitudes above 6 km and in regions poleward of the midlatitudes, the CLWC exhibits a gamma distribution due to a high frequency of occurrence of supercooled liquid clouds, which results in the increased occurrence of low CLWC values. The data sub-sampling with respect to cloud phase and precipitation 
significantly affects the dist ribution characteristics of CLWC in some regions. After removing the contributions of supercooled water and precipitation the CLWC PDFs transition from gamma to lognormal distributions in two types of regions: \(1\e high altitude and middle-to-polar latitude regions where the contribution of mixed-phase cloud is significant; \(2 gion near the surface where the contribution of precipitating cloud is considerable 1 2  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1 
 2  M ETHODOLOGY AND D ATA 2  3  R ESULTS 4  4  D ISCUSSION 7  A CKNOWLEDGMENTS 8  R EFERENCES 8  B IOGRAPHY 
10  1  I NTRODUCTION  A crude treatment of sub-grid scale cloud processes in current climate models is widely recognized as a major limitation in predictions of global climate change \(e.g  1 978-1-4244-3888-4 10/$25.00 \2512010 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1290, Version 1 Updated November 1, 2009 Stephens 2005; Bony and Dufresne 2005; Solomon et al 2007; Bader et al, 2008\ present, typical climate models have a horizontal resolution on the order of 100 km and a variable vertical resolution between 100 m and 1 km. Since climate models cannot explicitly resolve what happens at 
the sub-grid scales, the physics must be parameterized as a function of the resolved motions. The fundamental problem of cloud parameterization is to characterize the distributions of cloud variables at sub-grid scales and to relate the subgrid variations to the resolved flow. In particular, the subgrid distributions of liquid water content play a key role in modern cloud microphysics parameterizations \(e.g Morrison and Gettelman, 2008  Cloud parameterizations ba sed on probability density functions \(PDF\oist conserved variables have been advocated for some time \(e.g., Sommeria and Deardorff 1977\but only simplified versions have been implemented in weather and climate prediction models \(e.g. Tompkins 2002; Teixeira and Hogan 2002; Chaboureau and Bechtold 
2002\oreover, there is no clear consensus on the optimal type and number of basic shapes for the PDF estimation of cloud properties for different cloud types. For example aircraft observations \(e.g., Larson et al. 2001a\arge eddy simulation models \(e.g., Cuijpers and Bechtold 1995 support that for most stratus clouds a Gaussian PDF is a realistic approximation. However, for cumulus clouds, the skewness of the PDF plays an important role in determining the cloud properties so that others have suggested different PDF types such as the Beta distribution \(Tompkins 2002 the double Gaussian distribution \(Golaz et al. 2002a, Golaz et al. 2002b\and the generalized lognormal distribution Bony and Emanuel 2001  The characterization of distributions \(PDFs\oud 
variables has been studied using aircraft data \(e.g. Ek and Mahrt 1991; Wood and Field 2000; Larson et al. 2001b e.g Wielicki and Parker 1994; Barker et al. 1996\and cloudresolving or large-eddy simulation models \(e.g. Bougeault 1982; Lewellen and Yoh, 1993; Xu and Randall 1996a; Xu and Randall 1996b\h e observational data used in the previous studies have limitations. Aircraft and tethered balloon data provide only one-dimensional paths in a few selected locations and do not provide global coverage Although satellite data can provide global coverage previous studies based on Infra-Red \(IR\sible imagery \(e.g., Wielicki and Parker 1994; Barker et al. 1996 


 0 2 Parameter   2 do not provide vertically resolved cloud structure information. Recently Kahn a nd Teixeira \(2009 the scaling behavior of vertically resolved variance of thermodynamic variables from AIRS. However, AIRS is an IR instrument and as such produces retrievals \(using some microwave information\ical profiles of temperature and water vapor, but not of cloud properties. Cloudresolving model output has its own shortfalls such as the over- and under-estimation of hydrometeor coverage in comparison with observational data \(e.g. Marchand et al 2009  Recently, NASA\222s satellite instrument CloudSat has provided vast amounts of unprecedented high-resolution information of cloud hydrometeors at climate model subgrid scales that enable charact erization of the distributional properties of cloud variables. The CloudSat satellite is in an orbit with the A-Train \(Stephens et al. 2002\loudSat carries a W-band 94 GHz cl oud profiling radar \(CPR providing vertically-resolved information of cloud ice and liquid water content, precipitation, cloud classification radiative fluxes and heating rates \(Stephens et al. 2008\ a vertical resolution of 480 m oversampled to 240 m with the footprint of 1.4 km cross-track by 2.5 km along-track \(Mace et al. 2007\PR resolves details in vertical cloud structure that IR sounders or visible imagers are unable to quantify  In this paper, vertically resolved cloud liquid water content CLWC\ profiles retrieved from CloudSat \(Stephens et al 2008; Austin et al. 2009\o characterize the subgrid distribution of CLWC. The CLWC profiles are organized by temperature \(a simple surrogate for cloud phase\cloud type, precipitation occurrence and geolocation, and the dependence of the CLWC distributions on these parameters is investig ated. The characteristics of CLWC distributions are quantified by utilizing a statistical method for the parametric estimation of the probability Kay 1993\esults for the best estimation of the CLWC PDF with respect to temperature cloud phase pitation occurrence, latitude and height are presented 2  M ETHODOLOGY AND D ATA  The properties of CLWC PDFs retrieved from CloudSat are quantified using a statistical parametric approach called Maximum Likelihood Estimation \(MLE  Kay 1993\LE finds the best parameter set for an assumed PDF functional form, which maximizes the probability \(likelihood\to generate a given data set with the PDF function. MLE makes the maximum use of the information in a data set, is statistically robust against noise, and provides the lowestpossible variance of parameter estimates as a data sample size increases. In MLE, the likelihood x x   2 exp  2        265 006 006 007 006   006 are the mean and standard deviation of the variable\222s natural logarithm  The main difference between the gamma and lognormal distributions appears at small values of the variable where the gamma function exhibits a polynomial dependence but the lognormal function exhibits an exponential dependence Both distribution functions are fit to the distribution of CLWC, and the maximum likelihood values of the two distributions are compared to determine which distribution quantitatively fits CLWC better  A representative set of CLWC data was obtained by sampling week-long segments from each of the four seasons in 2007 \(covering measurements from January 1-7, April 17, July 1-7, and October 1-7\stributions that are discussed in this paper are associated with particular temporal periods and as such do not correspond to 221snapshot\222 PDFs. Initially, the di stributions of each seasonal data set were investigated separately for evidence of seasonal variations and found that they are insignificant compared to other dependent variables considered here Therefore, the four week-long segments are combined and are used to investigate the CLWC distribution for the results N 1 exp x    i 002 1   This likelihood  f     and 2 2 and  i x  212 265  x i x x  212   x   x x ln 1  For example, if  is a Gaussian function, the parameters are the mean and the variance of the Gaussian f unction. Numerically, the PDF parameters that maximize the likelihood 1 003 004 004 004 004 003 003 004  x 0 3 Parameters  006         for an assumed PDF  is given by 003 and 004  003 determines the shape of the gamma distribution function, while parameter 004 determines the scale of the function. Similarly, the lognormal distribution function is characterized by two parameters 265 265  212 L of sampling a data set f L L is maximized with respect to the parameters of the PDF f f L are found using Newton\222s method iteratively \(Press et al, 1992 Various functional forms including Gaussian, beta, log-log linear, lognormal, and gamma distribution functions are investigated in order to determine an appropriate function for CLWC.  It was found that the gamma and lognormal distribution functions are the most appropriate among the functional forms tested with the variety of CLWC data sets The extent to which a given functional form represents a data distribution is quantified by the maximum likelihood obtained with MLE for the function form  The Gamma distribution function is characterized by two parameters f x f x  005  003 212 


  3 that follow. The CLWC data are organized and/or filtered in terms of retrieved data quality associated with cloud phase and precipitation latitude, and height, and are 223fit\224 to the gamma and lognormal distributions using the approach described above  The first condition used to partition the CloudSat data is related to data quality, in particular filtering for supercooled liquid/mixed phase and precipitating clouds. CloudSat is unable to independently determine the cloud phase in any given vertical bin. As a result, CloudSat employs a simple scheme to partition the radar measurements into ice and liquid phases. In this scheme, the portion of the profile colder than -20\272C is deemed pure ice, the portion of the profile warmer than 0\272C is considered pure liquid, and in between is partitioned linearly into ice and liquid phases with a smooth transition from all ice at -20\272C to all liquid at 0\272C \(CloudSat Data Processing Document 2007 simple linear interpolation does not accurately capture mixed-phase cloud structure, which is complex and uncertain \(e.g. Nasiri and Kahn 2008  Another factor that potentially impacts the fidelity of CloudSat-retrieved CLWC is the presence of large droplets CloudSat Data Processing Document 2007\radar reflectivity is sensitive to the sixth power of the diameter of the droplet, and the retrieved CLWC in the presence of precipitation often exceeds the a pplicability of the retrieval algorithm. The CLWC retrieval algorithm assumes a lognormal distribution of droplet sizes, and possible departures from this assumpti on degrade the accuracy of the retrieval. In the presence of precipitation or drizzle, the cloud droplet distribution departs from the lognormal distribution, violating the assumption of the retrieval algorithm. Therefore, the retrieved CLWC in precipitating clouds is likely to have larger errors than in nonprecipitating clouds       Figure 1 Observed and fitted distributions of CLWC by cloud type with four data sampling schemes: \(a d\pitating and singlephase cloud \(NP+SP\id lines are the distributions of the data, while the dashed lines are the best-fit PDFs using either a gamma or a lognormal distribution 


  4 Considering the impacts of cloud phase and precipitation on the accuracy of retrieved CLWC the data are organized in four ways 1\l cloud set \(AC\: includes all retrieved CLWC data 2\pitating cloud set \(NP\ includes only nonprecipitating CLWC data 3\Single-phase cloud set \(SP\ includes only pure liquid phase CLWC data \(T > 0 260 C 4\pitating and single-phase cloud set \(NP+SP includes only non-precipitating and pure liquid phase CLWC data  The second condition used to partition CLWC data in this study is cloud type. CloudSat data can be used to classify CLWC into cloud types differentiated by characteristics of hydrometeor vertical and horizontal scales, radar reflectivity, precipitation, and ancillary data including temperature profiles and surf ace topography height \(Sassen and Wang 2008\ain limitations of the CloudSat classification is that the radar is insensitive to clouds containing relatively small particles and the lowest three or four radar bins above the su rface \(<1 km\inated by surface returns \(CloudSat Data Processing Document 2007\ecognizing these limitations, the cloud classification is used to partition CLWC distributions into different cloud types. The thir d and fourth conditions used to partition the CLWC data are latitude \(10 260 bins height \(1 km bins 3  R ESULTS  The observed and fitted distributions of the four CLWC data sets \(described above\erized for six different cloud types: Altostratus \(As\tocumulus \(Ac Nimbostratus \(Ns\ratocumulus \(Sc\Cumulus \(Cu\and deep convective \(Cb\oud. All liquid Cirrus occurrences were rejected as it was assumed that they are a result of cloud mis-identification or a by-product of the linear cloud phase assignment. Figure 1 shows the CLWC PDFs sets of the six cloud types, along with the best-fit gamma or lognormal distributions calculated using MLE. For the AC   Figure 2 The likelihood difference between the gamma and lognorma l distributions for CLWC in each height-latitude grid box for \(a b c d sitive \(negative\ean that the gamma \(lognormal distribution provides a higher likelihood value than the lognormal \(gamma\stribution   


  5 and NP data sets, the CLWC distributions follow a gamma distribution. In contrast, the SP and NP+SP data sets follow a lognormal distribution. The parameters of the best-fit gamma distribution for AC and NP data sets and those of the best-fit lognormal distribution for SP and NP+SP data sets are listed in Table 1  The differences between AC and NP data sets are much smaller than differences between AC and SP data sets Therefore, limiting CLWC to T > 0 G log  is the CloudSat CLWC da ta. Positive \(negative values mean that the gamma \(lognormal\ distribution provides a higher likelihood value than the lognormal gamma\stribution for a given data set  For the AC data set, the middle and lower troposphere in the tropical and subtropical regions are better described by a lognormal distribution except n ear the surface, while the middle and high latitudes are better described by a gamma distribution. The NP data set does not change the distribution likelihood structure very much, except in the boundary layer of the tropics and subtropics. Note  Figure 3. The PDF estimation of CLWC with both a gamma and a lognormal distribution function from 3\2264 km and 40\272N\22650\272N grid box \(as highlighted in Fig. 2 red lines represent the distribution of AC, while the blue lines represent the distribution of NP+SP   Figure 4. Transition of PDF of CLWC in a sub-tropical region \(20\272N-30\272N\th respect to height for \(a and \(b   x i D L L x x log log  i 4 where G LN x i 260 C is the primary cause of the change from the gamma distribution to the lognormal distribution by considerably reducing most occurrences of CLWC < 10\22630 mg m 2263 The small differences between AC and NP appear mainly in the high value range of CLWC: in particular for boundary layer clouds \(Sc and Cu\he NP sampling significantly reduces the frequency of occurrence of large retrieved values of CLWC as would be expected since we are filtering out the precipitating events  Figure 1 also shows that the larger differences between cloud types for small values of CLWC apparent in AC and NP data sets are reduced si gnificantly after the SP condition is applied. Table 1 confirms that the SP condition diminishes the differences of PDF parameters among cloud types. Since the retrieved phase for the cloud water between 22630 260 C and 0 260 C has a high degree of uncertainty, the physical interpretation of the SP condition requires a more precise retrieval of cloud phase that is lacking at present e.g. Nasiri and Kahn 2008  The dependence of the CLWC distribution on height and latitude is investigated by applying the aforementioned PDF estimation method with the gamma and lognormal distributions. Figure 2 shows the difference of the logarithm of the likelihood between the best-fit gamma and lognormal distributions. The difference of the logarithm of the likelihood is given by   normal log  212      is the best-fit gamma distribution function and  the best-fit lognormal distribution function. The set log  x i    b Gamma LN 212 


004    6 however, that the CloudSat retrievals are fairly uncertain in the first km above the surface mostly due to surface clutter The SP data set alters the distribution likelihood structure significantly. Most of CLWC data at higher altitude and near polar latitudes are removed because the observations corresponding to T< 0 006  265  265    260 C are being filtered out. The remaining CLWC data exhibits a lognormal distribution except in the boundary layer below 1 km. When NP+SP is considered, the distribution of CLWC is generally close to a lognormal distribution almost everywhere  Table 1 Parameters of the best-fit gamma 003 265 003  260 C is filtered out\other interesting effect is the increase of the frequency of occurrence of larger values of CLWC for the NP+SP sampling, which eliminates the precipitating clouds. This is likely due to the fact th at the figure shows PDFs normalized histograms such this apparent increase of the larger values of CLWC is simply a consequence of the significant reduction in the frequency of occurrence of lower values  The detailed height dependence of the CLWC PDFs in the sub-tropics \(20 260 N \226 30 260 N\wo different data sampling conditions \(AC and NP+SP\s shown in Fig. 4. For AC, the distribution gradually transitions from a lognormal to a gamma distribution as the hei ght increases, because of the larger prevalence of small values of CLWC at higher altitudes due to the colder temperatures. In addition, for the AC set, the mean value of the CLWC PDFs clearly decreases with height as is to be expected from the natural decrease of temperature with he ight \(and as such a decrease of saturation specific humidity and cloud water content For NP+ SP conditions, all values of CLWC above 6 km are removed and the remaining data exhibits a lognormal distribution  The dependence of the PDF parameters on latitude and height is illustrated in Figure 5. The parameters of the bestfit gamma distribution for the AC set show a noticeable correlation with the geo-location parameters. The parameter 003 the shape parameter\s correlated with both latitude and height such that it has a higher value at regions with a higher air temperature, as shown in the similarity between Figure 5\(a\gure 6. Note that Figure 6 shows the averaged air temperature in January 2007 using Atmospheric InfraRed Sounder \(AIRS\measurements  In contrast, the parameter 004 the scale parameter\correlated only with height. Since the shape parameter determines the PDF shape and the scale parameter determines how far the CLWC value extends without changing the shape of the PDF, this study suggests that the air temperature affects the shape of the CLWC distribution and the height influences the extent of the distribution  Figure 5 also displays the dependence of the PDF parameters of the best-fit lognormal distribution for the NP+SP set. Unlike the gamma-distribution parameters of the AC set, the lognormal parameters do not show a considerable correlation with the geo-location parameters The variations of the parameters are smaller and do not show a clear structure. This suggests that in the lower to mid-troposphere \(altitudes of 1-6 km\tropical and subtropical latitudes, where non-precipitating and pure\006  As 1.0 77.4 1.0 76.1 5.0 0.6 5.0 0.6 Ac 1.5 93.4 1.5 86.2 5.2 0.6 5.1 0.6 Sc 2.0 85.9 2.1 78.0 5.1 0.6 5.1 0.6 Cu 1.8 148.8 2.1 88.7 5.5 0.7 5.2 0.6 Ns 1.0 125.8 1.2 93.5 5.6 0.6 5.4 0.5 Cb 1.5 161.7 1.9 67.0 5.6 0.6 5.0 0.4  Table 2 Characterizations of PDFs of CloudSat-retrieved CLWC with respect to data filtering scheme \(described in Section 2\ocation  Boundary layer Middle to lower troposphere of tropics and subtropics Middle to upper troposphere of middle-topolar latitude regions AC Gamma Lognormal Gamma NP Lognormal Lognormal Gamma SP Gamma Lognormal N/A NP+SP Lognormal Lognormal N/A  The low-to-middle altitude regions in the tropical and subtropical latitudes where the cloud is mainly in a pure water phase and is non-precipitating, exhibit essentially no change of the distribution with the sub-sampling conditions and the distribution closely resembles a lognormal distribution. CLWC from the single-phase and nonprecipitating cloud is well described with a lognormal distribution regardless of its geo-location and cloud type Table 2 summarizes the characterizations of the PDFs of CLWC with respect to the data-filtering scheme and the geo-location  The variation of the distribution function type due to the data sampling conditions for all cloud types brought together is illustrated in Figure 3. The distributions of two data sets are compared: AC and NP+SP data sets for the bin located at 3\2264 km and 40\272N\22650\272N. Figure 3 clearly illustrates how removing clouds with precipitation and supercooled liquid droplets affect the shape of the CLWC distribution. In particular, the frequency of CLWC < 10\22630 mg m 2263 is significantly reduced, making the observed distribution follow a lognormal distribution more closely than a gamma distribution. This occurs due to the temperature sub-sampling \(T< 0 004  004  lognormal 006 stributions for AC, NP, SP, and NP+SP data sets of all the cloud types \(As, Ac, Sc, Cu, Ns, Cb considered in this study AC NP SP NP+SP Cloud 003  


  7 water phase clouds are dominant, the CLWC distribution does not vary with geo-location in a particularly significant manner 4  D ISCUSSION  We characterized the distributions of CloudSat-retrieved cloud liquid water content \(CLWC\a sampled from 2007 using Maximum Likelihood Estimation \(MLE\bestestimate PDFs of CLWC are found to closely follow either a gamma or a lognormal distribution depending on cloud phase, cloud type, precipitation occurrence, and geolocation. In the regions including the altitudes from 1-6 km within tropical and the subtropical latitudes where nonprecipitating and pure-water phase clouds are dominant, the PDF of CLWC is best described by a lognormal distribution. In c ontrast, the altitudes above 6 km and regions poleward of the midlatitudes, which contains a high frequency of supercooled liquid cloud droplets, exhibit a gamma distribution due to an increased occurrence of the low CLWC values  The data sub-sampling/filtering with respect to cloud phase and precipitation conditions significantly affects the distribution characteristics of CLWC in some regions. After removing the contributions of supercooled water and precipitation, the CLWC distribution transitions from a gamma to a lognormal distribution in two types of regions 1\the high altitude and middle-to-polar latitude regions where the contribution of the supercooled or mixed-phase cloud is significant; \(2 gion near the surface \(the boundary layer\where the contribution of the precipitating cloud is considerable and CloudSat does not sample many hydrometeors  Some of the PDF parameters of the CLWC distribution show a noticeable correlati on with the geo-location parameters \226 latitude and height. For the AC set, the shape parameter of the gamma distribution is correlated with both latitude and height such that it has a positive correlation with air temperature, while the scale parameter of the gamma distribution is correlated mainly with height. Unlike  Figure 5 Parameters of best-fit PDF functions for CLWP: \(a\eter 003 and \(b 004 of the gamma distribution for the AC data set; \(c\eter 265 and \(d 006 of the lognormal distribution for the NP+SP data set  


  8 the gamma-distribution parameters of the AC set, the lognormal parameters for the NP+SP set do not show a considerable correlation with geo-location  Detailed information on PDFs of liquid water content from satellite observations such as presented in this paper can have an important role in the development of parameterizations of cloud microphysics that take into account the effects of subgrid variability \(e.g. Morrison and Gettelman, 2008\ure studies in this context with the CloudSat dataset will include th e analysis of PDFs of ice water content and \221snapshot\222 PDFs of cloud water content where only the variability in sp ace is taken into account in the statistics. The sensitivity of the CLWC distribution function type to the radar sampling characteristics of cloud hydrometeors will be also investigated in future work  A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. This work was funded by the JPL Internal Research and Technology Development Program  R EFERENCES  1  Austin, R. T and G. Stephen \(2001\etrieval of stratus cloud microphysical paramete rs using millimeter-wave radar and visible optical depth in preparation for CloudSat, 1. Algorithm formation J. Geophys. Res., 106  28 233-242 2  Austin, R. T., A. J. Heymsfield, and G. Stephens \(2009 Retrieval of ice cloud microphysical parameters using the CloudSat millimeter-wave radar and temperature J Geophys. Res  114 D00A23 doi:10.1029/2008JD010049 3  Bader, D. C., C. Covey, W. J. Cutowski Jr, I. M. Held, K E. Kunkel, R. L. Miller, R. T. Tokmakian, M. H. Zhang 2008\limate models: an assessment of strengths and limitations, synthesis and assessment product 3.1, report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research 4  Barker, H. W., B. A. Wielicki, and L. Parker \(1996\A paraemeterization for computing grid-averaged solar fluxes for inhomogeneous marine boundary layer clouds Part II: Validation using satellite data J. Atmos. Sci., 53  2304-2316 5  Bony, S., and K. A. Emanuel \(2001\A parameterization of the cloudiness associated with cumulus convection Evaluation using TOGA COARE data J. Atmos. Sci 58 3158\2263183 6  Bougeault, P. \(1981\odeling the trade-wind cumulus boundary layer. Part I: Testing the ensemble cloud relations against numerical data J. Atmos. Sci., 38 24142428 7  Chaboureau, J. P., and P. Bechtold \(2002\ A simple cloud parameterization derived from cloud resolving model data: Diagnostic and prognostic applications J. Atmos Sci 59, 2362-2372 8  Cuijpers, J. W. M., and P. Bechtold, \(1995\A simple parameterization of cloud water related variables for use in boundary layer models, J. Atmos. Sci., 52, 2486-2490 9  CloudSat Data Processing Document \(2007\ 2B Radar-only Cloud Water Content \(2B-CWC-RO Process Description Document, Version 5.1, 2007 10  Ek, M., and L. Mahrt \(1991\ation for boundarylayer cloud cover Ann. Geophys., 9 716-724, 1991 11  Golaz J-C, V. E. Larson, W. R. Cotton \(2002a PDF-Based Model for Boundary Layer Clouds. Part I Method and Model Description\224, Journal of the Atmospheric Sciences, Vol. 59, 3540-3551 Figure 6 Zonal averaged air temperature measured by AIRS in January 2007 with resp ect to latitude and height  


  9 12  Golaz J-C, V. E. Larson, W. R. Cotton \(2002b PDF-Based Model for Boundary Layer Clouds. Part II Method Results\224, Journal of the Atmospheric Sciences Vol. 59, 3552-3571 13  Kahn, B. H., and J. Teixeira \(2009\obal climatology of temperature and water vapor variance scaling from the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder J Climate 22, 5558\2265576, doi: 10.1175/2009JCLI2934.1 14  Kay, S. M. \(1993\entals of Statistical Signal Processing, Estimation Theory, Prentice Hall, p 157 1993 15  Larson, V. E., R. Wood, P.R. Field, J-C Golaz, T.H Vonder Haar, and W.R. Cotton \(2001a\stematic baises in the microphysics and thermodynamics of numerical models that ignore subgrid-scalevariability J Atmos. Sci. 58 1118, 2001 16  Larson, V. E., R. Wood, P. R. Field, J-C. Golaz, T. H Vonder Haar and W. R. Cotton \(2001b\alle-scale and mesoscale variability of scalars in cloudy boundary layers: one-dimensional probability density functions J Atmos. Sci. 58 1978-1994, 2001 17  Lewellen, W. S., and S. Yoh \(1993\inormal model of ensemble partial cloudiness. J Atmos. Sci., 50 12281237 18  Mace, G.G., R. Marchand, Q Zhang, and G. Stephens 2007\obal hydrometeor occurrence as observed by CloudSat: Initial observations from Summer 2006 Geophys. Res. Lett 34, L09808 doi:10.1029/2006GL029017 19  Marchand, R., J. Haynes, G. G. Mace, T. Ackerman and G. Stephens \(2009\comparison of simulated cloud radar output from the multiscale modeling framework global climate model with CloudSat cloud radar observations J. Geophys. Res  114 D00A20 doi:10.1029/2008JD009790 20  Morrison, H., and A. Gettelman, 2008: A New TwoMoment Bulk Stratiform Cloud Microphysics Scheme in the Community Atmosphere Model, Version 3 \(CAM3 Part I: Description and Numerical Tests J. Climate  21  3642\2263659 21  Nasiri, S. L., and B. H. Kahn \(2008\mitations of bispectral infrared cloud phase determination and potential for improvement J. Appl. Meteor. Climatol  47, 2895\2262910 22  Press, W.H., S.A. Teukolsky, W.T. Vetterling, and B.P Flannery, \(1997\erical Recipes in C, The art of scientific computing, Second Edition, Cambridge University Press 23  Price, J. D. \(2001 on probability distributions of boundary layer humidity and associated errors in parameterized cloud fraction, Quart J. Roy. Meteor. Sco 127 739-758, 2001 24  Sassen, K., Z. Wang, \(2008\lassifying clouds around the globe with the CloudSat radar: 1-year of results Geophys. Res. Lett., 35, L04805 doi:10.1029/2007GL032591 25  Sommeria, G. and J. W. Deardorff \(1977\ Sub-gridscale condensation in models of nonprecipitating clouds J. Atmos. Sci 34, 344-355 26  Stephens, G.L., Vane, D.G Boain, R.J., Mace, G.G Sassen, K., Wang, Z., Illingworth, A.J., O\222Connor, E.J Ro sso w, W.B., Durden, S.L., Miller, S.D., Austin, R.T Benedetti, A., Mi trescu, C., and the CloudSat Science Team, \(2002\loudSat mission and the A-train Bull. Am. Met. Soc 83, 1771\2261790 27  Stephens, G. L., et al. \(2008\loudSat mission Performance and early science after the first year of operation, J. Geophys. Res., 113, D00A18 doi:10.1029/2008JD009982 28  Teixeira, J., and T.F. Hogan, \(2002\ Boundary layer clouds in a global atmospheric model: Simple cloud cover parameterizations J. Climate 15, 1261-1276 29  Tompkins, A. M. \(2002\prognostic parameterization for the subgrid-scale variability of water vapor and clouds in large-scale models and its use to diagnose cloud cover J. Atmos, Sci., 59 1917, 2002 30  Wielicki, B. A., and L. Parker \(1994 distribution of cl oud liquid water path in oceanic boundary layer cloud as a function of cloud fraction Preprints, Eighth Conf. on Atmospheric Radiation Nashville, TN, Amer. Meteor. Soc., 415-417 31  Wood, R., and P. R. Field \(2000\Relationships between total water, condensed water and cloud fraction examined using aircraft data J. Atmos. Sci., 57 18881905, 2000 32  Xu, K.-M., and D. A. Randall \(1996a\iempirical cloudiness parameterization for use in climate models J Atmos. Sci., 53 3084-3102 33  Xu, K.-M., and D. A. Randall \(1996a\uation of statistically based cloudiness parameterizations used in climate models J. Atmos. Sci., 53 3103-3119    


  10 B IOGRAPHY  Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the technical staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  Her research interest includes genetic algorithms, low-thrust trajectory design nan0electronics, quantum computation, parallel cluster computation and advanced scientific software modernization techniques Seungwon received her Ph.D. in physics from the Ohio State University in 2002.  Her work is documented in numerous journals and conference proceedings  


many proposals for NASA AOs including New Frontiers Discovery, MIDEX and SMEX opportunities, and focused mission RFPs such as Micromissions, ST3, LightSAR, ST5 TPF, and Constellation X. Bill has also supported various defense new business and proposal work. Prior to Ball Aerospace, Bill worked at FIATAVIO-BPD in Italy for 9 years and as a Member of the Technical Staff at JPL for 8 years. Bill is a member of the IEEE and an Associate 11 Fellow of the AIAA. He received his Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering from the Universit  degli Studi di Pisa in Italy his M.S. in Plasma Physics from Colorado State University and his B.S. degree in Physics from the State University of New York at Cortland Richard Dissly is a Staff Scientist at Ball Aerospace, primarily supporting in situ instrument development and mission opportunities in planetary sciences He has pursued research in both planetary and Earth sciences for the past 12 years. Previously Dr Dissly spent five years at NOAA where he developed instrumentation for accurate in-situ measurements of tropospheric pollutants.  Dr. Dissly holds a doctorate in planetary sciences from Caltech Kenny Epstein has more than 28 years of experience in the design of aerospace vehicles. He is currently the Spacecraft Design Manager at Ball Aerospace &amp; Technologies Corp. His primary duties are to develop and manage new spacecraft for wide variety of missions and customers.  Prior to Ball, he was employed at Lockheed Martin Missiles &amp; Space leading teams during conceptual development, proposal development, and new product development on a wide variety of spacecraft. Prior to Lockheed Martin Missiles &amp; Space he was employed at Lockheed Martin Skunk Works  as a lead configuration designer on several aircraft programs.  He received his B.S in Civil Engineering from the University of Colorado Dan Scheeres is the A. Richard Seebass Endowed Chair Professor in the Department of Aerospace Engineering Sciences at the University of Colorado at Boulder Prior to this, he held positions at the University of Michigan \(19992007 1997  1999 Navigation Systems Section at the California Institute of Technology's Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(1992  1997 1992 M.S.E. \(1988 1987 Engineering from the University of Michigan, and holds a B.S. in Letters and Engineering from Calvin College \(1985 He is a Fellow of the American Astronautical Society, an Associate Fellow of the AIAA, and a member of the American Astronomical Society and its Divisions of Planetary Science and Dynamical Astronomy, and the International Astronomical Union. He is currently serving as an Associate Editor for the journals Celestial Mechanics amp; Dynamical Astronomy, the Journal of Guidance, Control and Dynamics, the Journal of the Astronautical Sciences and the Journal of Nonlinear Science Dave Waller is a mechanical engineer within the spacecraft design group at Ball Aerospace &amp 


Technologies Corp.  He is involved in all aspects of satellite design including mechanical design structural analysis, and systems engineering for both civil and defense applications.  He provides continuous support for new business proposals and is a mentor for company interns as well as senior design projects at the University of Colorado Boulder.  He has a B.S.E in Aerospace Engineering from Arizona State University and M.S.E in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Colorado Boulder pre></body></html 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Michael A. Mischna is an atmospheric scientist with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory focusing on the atmospheres and climates of terrestrial planets. He was the EDL Atmosphere Team Lead for the Mars Phoenix Mission. His research interests include longterm evolution of the martian climate, the role of greenhouse gases in providing habitable environments and surfaceatmosphere interactions. Dr. Mischna has a B.S. in atmospheric science from Cornell University, an M.S. in meteorology from the Pennsylvania State University and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Geophysics and Space Physics from the University of California, Los Angeles  Seungwon Lee is a member of the technical staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Her research interests include genetic algorithms, lowthrust trajectory design nanoelectronics, quantum computation, parallel cluster computation and advanced scientific software modernization techniques. Dr. Lee received her Ph.D. in Physics from the Ohio State University in 2002 Her work is documented in numerous journals and conference proceedings  Mark Allen is supervisor of the Earth and Planetary Atmospheres Group and Principal Scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. His research interests include remote detection of trace atmospheric species, and the role of atmospheric chemistry on the atmospheres of Mars, Venus and Titan. He was the PI of the MARVEL Mars Scout proposal, and is a co-investigator on the MIRO microwave instrument on the Rosetta Orbiter. Dr Allen has a B.A. from Columbia University and received a Ph.D. in Chemistry from the California Institute of Technology in 1976     Richard J. Terrile created and leads the Evolutionary Computation Group at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory. His group has developed genetic algorithmbased tools to improve on human design of space systems and has demonstrated that computer aided design tools can also be used for automated innovation and design of complex systems. He is an astronomer, the Mars Sample Return Study Scientist, the JIMO Deputy Project Scientist and the co-discoverer of the Beta Pictoris circumstellar disk. Dr. Terrile has B.S. degrees in Physics and Astronomy from the State University of New York at Stony Brook and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Planetary Science from the California Institute of Technology in 1978 
 


  14  
 


Available Array Energy 60297 W-hr Battery Recharge Energy Losses 93 W-hr Shunt Energy Losses 20% Battery W-hr 187 W-hr Remaining Electrical Energy 60017 W-hr Power Conversion Losses 80% Efficiency 12003 W-hr Harness Losses \(4 Available Diurnal Load Energy \(CBE Average Load Energy Supported 67.9 W Array Area 0.20 m2 12 specifically the seismometer and magnetometer continuously while other instruments such as the heat flow probes may operate intermittently. The retroreflector does not require any thermal control resources. Telecom between the Earth and the hub or from the remote units to the hub would be during the lunar day only  Description of the Design  A thermal blanket \(MLI Silver-Teflon would be used to moderate the temperature variation of the surface. The MLI and the lunar material thermal conduction properties could be used to insulate the different ALGEP elements from the external environment  The Mars Exploration Rover thermal switch and a thermal radiator with thermal louvers would be used to reject the internally generated thermal energy. The MER Thermal Switch has the ability to transfer up to 11 W. For the hub three or four switches may be necessary, depending on the RF power output  Potentially a small electric heater/thermostat system may be needed \(on the order of 10% of the dissipated electrical energy example, the seismometer, which dissipates 1.5 W, may need a 0.15 W heater. A detailed thermal analysis would be necessary to further assess this need  The ALGEP hardware location would be dictated by the science requirements. Each ALGEP element could be either positioned on the surface or buried.  An example of a buried element would be the seismometer, while the hub could be surface mounted. In either case a surface blanket would be required. The surface blanket would minimize the lunar temperature variation, from a range of -173 to ~127  C to a range under the blanked between approximately -73 to 27  C. Initial calculations indicate that the blanket extending about 0.5 m beyond the edge of the instrument or hub would provide the temperature control of the lunar surface required to minimize the temperature variation. For the lunar night, a small electric heater may be needed to keep the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits  For polar region operation it is assumed that the ALGEP could operate at all times as the solar arrays would always have incident solar energy and could provide electrical power for operations.  Thus with electrical power for the instruments and hub, the thermal radiator and louvers could maintain the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits. Initial calculations indicate that the current conceptual thermal control design does not require electric heaters for this location  Design Rationale  The design uses MLI, thermal conduction control, electric heaters, thermal radiators thermal louvers, and a deployed surface blanket to provide thermal control to maintain the remote units and hub within specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would 


specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would minimize the temperature variation of the surface, and electric heaters would provide makeup thermal energy  Risk  The thermal subsystem design is a low to moderate risk element, as the hardware used has extensive flight experience. Although this system would be on the surface of the Moon, the environment would be space-like, with the  Figure 6  ALGEP avionics block diagram showing the power and command and data handing  interface. This is a low-power design to enable data collection during lunar night at the remote units. The hub  contains the same avionics package but does not interface with an instrument  13 exception of the infrared heating of the lunar surface therefore the space qualified thermal control hardware could provide thermal control for this mission  Command and Data Handling Subsystem Design Requirements  The ALGEP controller is designed to meet the six year mission lifetime requirement stemming from the science objectives flowing down to the mission requirements and has a technology cutoff of 2016 \(assumes a 2020 launch interface to the science instrument and the UHF radio.  The controller for the hub interfaces to the UHF and S-band radios. Each type of controller would be single string  Design Assumptions  All selected electronic parts for the controller have a path to flight hardware with a technology cutoff of 2016. There would be one ALGEP hub that has a bi-directional S-band link to Earth and a UHF receiver link to the remote instrument units. There would be four ALGEP remote units that have UHF transmitters to link to the ALGEP hub. The controllers would have an operating temperature range: -20  C to 35  C. The total ionizing dose of radiation would be 2 krads for the mission  Description of the Design  Both controller designs would incorporate low-powered Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs devices and I/O drivers.  Portions of the existing MultiMission System Architecture Platform \(MSAP Engineering Unit \(REU IP provide the mission clock and alarm clock logic.  Both the hub and remote unit controllers would capture engineering data regarding temperatures, currents and voltages. Figure 6 provides an overview of the command and data handling and power subsystem architectures.  The remote units would be supplied with 2 Gb of memory and the hub would have 5 Gb of memory  Design Rationale  A low-powered avionics architecture would be achieved by developing a stand-alone controller capable of operating at various power levels. In the lowest power configuration only the mission clock and alarm clock logic would be active. Other logic, analog and I/O functions would be power strobed in the off mode during this very low-power mode. Science and engineering data would be stored in non-volatile memory elements that retain their data in the power-off mode  Risk  The controller requires engineering development to obtain the low-powered mode required for night operation However, it has been designed to incorporate components with flight heritage. A lower frequency oscillator would be used to reduce power  Telecom Subsystem 


Design Requirements  The telecom subsystem is designed to return 3.4 Gb of stored data every 16 days during lunar night in addition to 1.2 Gb of additional data collected each 24 hour period during daylight. This translates into a minimum direct-to-Earth return data rate of ~50 kbps for an 8 hour pass each Earth day for 16 days of sunlight. The subsystem must operate down to a temperature of -20  C and survive non-operational temperature of -50  C. The telecom subsystem would support two-way communications between the hub and the DSN network. It would also support two-way communications between the hub and each of the remote instrument packages on the surface. There would be a minimum 3 dB margin for the direct-to-Earth DTE  Design Assumptions  The telecom subsystem is assumed to be a single string design. The hub would have an S-band radio and antenna for two-way communications with a DSN 34 m ground station. The nominal downlink rate would be 120 kbps and the uplink rate would be 2 kbps. The surface links would be at UHF. The forward link data rate would be 8 kbps and the return rate would be 256 kbps. The maximum range for the surface links would be 100 m. All of the surface links would have line-of-sight between the units. It is assumed that the astronauts would point the Sband antenna towards Earth, within 5  of the center of Earth. This should be relatively easy to do as 5  is a very loose pointing requirement and the uplink/downlink would be marginally affected if the pointing is off by a little more than 5  A signal could be added which would use an uplink from the Earth to give a relative signal power to ensure the pointing requirement is met  Description of the Design  The telecom subsystem would use a commercial off-the-shelf S-band transponder \(L3 CXS-610 has a 5 W power amplifier and an S-band diplexer included This radio is used on GRAIL and a similar unit was used on Genesis. The diplexer would be connected to an S-band low gain antenna \(LGA be a 2-element S-band patch array with a boresight gain of 9 dB. It would be mounted on the end of one solar array on the hub and gimbaled to allow the astronaut to point it to the Earth  The hub communicates with each of the remote instrument units in UHF using a new UHF micro-transceiver. Each UHF microtransceiver would have a radio frequency output power of 50 mW. The UHF transceiver would use a halfduplex system meaning it would transmit and then listen However, it cannot do both at the same time. The UHF links would use a simple UHF monopole antenna, similar to the antennas flown on MER, and mounted on the top of the hub and remote units. The hub could only communicate with one remote unit at a time. Figure 7 shows the hub and remote unit telecom block diagrams  The S-Band telemetry link has a margin of 7.0 dB for a telemetry rate of 120 kbps into a 34 m beam waveguide ground station. The data rate could be increased to reduce 14 playback time. The surface link would have a margin exceeding 20 dB for a return data rate of 256 kbps. This includes a multipath loss allotment of 20 dB. The margin would be large because the range would be so small and all of the links would be line of sight  Design Rationale  Where available, the design of this subsystem uses heritage hardware. The UHF microtransceiver is a radio that is under development for the Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, low 


Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, lowpower and low temperature operation. The S-band antenna would be a smaller, simpler version of the antenna that flew on Deep Impact. Other antenna options would be available The UHF antennas have been flown on previous Mars lander/rover missions. There would be other alternatives for the S-band antenna and the UHF transceiver on the hub could use a larger power amplifier to talk to an orbiting asset as a backup to the S-band radio  Risk  The highest risk items for telecom would be the single string design for each element and six year design lifetime. However, the S-band radio has flight heritage. The UHF radios would be a new design but do not require new technology. They would be an engineering development 8. SYSTEM SUMMARY Mass Equipment List Table 5 shows a summary of the mass and power for each of the subsystems for the remote instrument units. The mass of one remote unit without the specified instrument is 26.6 kg with contingency specified at the subsystem level based on heritage. Table 6 shows a summary of mass and power by subsystem for the hub. The mass of the hub with contingency is 44.9 kg. Table 7 shows a mass summary for the entire package with appropriate contingencies added per the JPL  s Flight Project Practices and Design Principles Design Principles. The package totals 218.2 kg which includes four remote units, five instruments, one hub, and the carrier container\(s Table 5. Mass and power summary for remote units Remote Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 2.0 kg 29% 2.5 kg 0 W Telecom UHF 0.2 24% 0.3 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour 3 W Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 20.6 kg 29% 26.6 kg Diplexer S-Band Downconverter STDN command data to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r S-Band Exciter 9 dBi S-Band LGA UHF Downconverter Small UHF transceiver command data to S/C CDS 


to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r UHF PA UHF Monopole Command data to C&amp;DH Command dat  to C&amp;DH  Figure 7  Telecom block diagram for the S-band \(top bottom  units would be located on the hub while the remote units only contain a UHF system 15 9. OPERATIONAL SCENARIOS Daytime Operations During the day, the remote units and hub would be fully operational. The remote units would collect data from their instruments as specified by the science team and store it in the controller memory. Table 8 shows the data volume expected from each instrument. After 24 hours have passed the UHF telecom system on the hub is used to poll each of the remote units separately at the designated interval for the stored data. The hub then transmits the data direct-to-Earth using the S-band radio. This requires a maximum of eight hours at 50 kbps each day using the DSN 34 m antennas However, data rates as high as 120 kbps may be achieved reducing the downlink time. The hub has enough memory margin to accumulate data from all the instruments for three Earth days before it must downlink the data Nighttime Operations During nighttime operations, data collection at the remote units would be taking place. The magnetometer and seismometer collect data continuously. However, the seismometer operates at a reduced mode where the sampling rate is reduced to one-half of the daytime rate which has been deemed more than adequate by the science team. The remaining instruments collect data at various intervals that would be conducive to the science team  s current requirements. Telecom events would not be scheduled during the lunar night. The data accumulates in the controller memory over 16 Earth days \(~14 days at an equatorial location would be considered a worse case so two days have been added to be conservative data volume summary for each instrument during a 16 Earth day lunar night. When the sun comes up and the hub and remote units have sufficient power to run the telecom systems the hub polls each remote unit separately at a designated interval similar to operations during the day. The data would then be transmitted to Earth gradually over the next few days using the S-band radio Table 7. Mass summary for total package Unit Mass Contingency Mass + contingency 4 Remote Units 82.4 kg 29% 106.4 kg Hub 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg Instruments including cabling 17.3 kg 30% 22.5 kg Carrier Container\(s Total with heritage contingency 153.1 kg 29% 197.5 kg  System contingency  21.4 kg 14 Total Package  43% 218.9 kg Table 8. Instrument data volumes received at the hub over one Earth day in daylight operations Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub 


Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 236 Magnetometer 58 Heat Flow Probe 2 Seismic Sounder 700 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 6 Total 1002 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 80  Table 6. Mass and power summary for hub Hub/Base Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 13.4 kg 28% 17.2 kg 0 W Telecom UHF Telecom S-band 3.4 15% 3.9 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour W \(day Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg 2.38 W avg at night  16 10. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS The ALGEP modular design builds upon lessons learned from Apollo era ALSEP package and technology advances since that time. ALGEP meets the requirements of long lifetime survival while maintaining continuous operation of its instruments during the lunar night which can last up to 16 days at equatorial regions on the Moon. The package would be powered using solar arrays and batteries alone not requiring nuclear sources to supply power or maintain thermal control. This concept is feasible due to its lowpower operational mode at night The modular design and packaging scheme provides flexibility in deployment across all regions of the Moon including the farside pending the availability of an orbital communications asset. The relatively light ALGEP package could be accommodated on astronaut activity support vehicles, providing a method to distribute the packages across the Moon, ultimately gaining a Moon-wide understanding of lunar geophysical properties ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by the NASA Lunar Sortie Science Opportunities Program The work described in this publication was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration References herein to any specific commercial product process or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer 


or otherwise does not constitute or imply its endorsement by the United States Government or the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology REFERENCES 1] NRC  Scientific Context for Exploration of the Moon   Washington D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2007 2] Apollo 11 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-214, 1969 3] Apollo 12 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-235, 1970 4] Apollo 14 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-272, 1971 5] Apollo 15 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-289, 1972 6] Apollo 16 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-315, 1972 7] Apollo 17 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-330, 1973 8] ALSEP Termination Report, NASA RP-1036, 1979 9] NRC  New Frontiers in the Solar System: an Integrated Exploration Strategy  Decadal Survey D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2003 10] International Lunar Network Science Definition Team Final Report, 2009 BIOGRAPHY Melissa Jones is a member of the technical staff in the Planetary and Lunar Mission Concepts Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  Current work includes development of small Lunar lander concepts and instrument packages to deploy on the Moon,  Report Manager for the Titan Saturn System Mission Outer Planets Flagship Mission study, and staffing various concept studies as a systems engineer on Team X, JPL  s mission design team.  Melissa graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry and a Ph.D. in Space and Planetary Science from the University of Arkansas  Linda Herrell has a BA in math/computer science/languages \(University of Texas fluids and heat transfer \(City College of New York addition to analytical work in computer science and thermal and structural analysis, she has worked as both a payload \(instrument Earth orbiting \(Hubble Space Telescope, Earth Observing System \(EOS Cassini as Proposal Manager for several NASA science missions She currently serves as the Program Architect for NASA's New Millennium Program    Table 9. Instrument data volumes generated at the hub after 16 Earth day lunar night Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 1980 Magnetometer 920 Heat Flow Probe 5 Seismic Sounder 0 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 72 Total 2977 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 40  17 Bruce Banerdt has been a research geophysicist at the California Institute of Technology's Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1977, where he does research in planetary geophysics and instrument development for flight projects. He has been on science teams for numerous planetary missions 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


