  1 Extending the Strategy Based Risk Model: Application to the Validation Process for R&D Satellites Amanda J. Langenbrunner Mary R. Trautwein The Air Force Institute of Technology 2950 Hobson Way Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, OH 45433 505-846-4453 or 505-853-0962 amanda.langenbrunner@kirtland.af.mil mary.trautwein@kirtland.af.mil  Abstract\227  The validation between a research and developmental R&D\ its ground system is critical to ensuring the satellite success on orbit 12 However, the exact process for completing validation is not documented; the effort is frequently underfunded and acco 
mplished ad hoc.  This leads to debate regarding how to best maintain budget and schedule, while ensuring on-orbit success  This paper examines several years of readiness and on-orbit activities within the U.S. Ai r Force Space Development and Test Wing\222s Research Development Test and Evaluation RDT&E\Support Complex \(RSC\ Using this historical data together with subject matter experts, a validation process was first defined.  Risks associated with this validation process were then analyzed using the Strategy Based Risk Model, evaluated based on the probability of occurrence and severity of impact.  The validation process and associated costs were veri fied using the Delphi Method obtaining consensus from a group of experts through a 
series of surveys.  After compiling the results, we transformed the risk validation model into a simulation.  A simulation is used to generate distributions of possible costs and risk outcomes and is anal yzed in relation to impact events.  Finally we applied the simulation to an on-going program, and gave it to two program managers to provide input on the usefulness of the simulation.  This simulation will be distributed to program offices to support tailoring a validation plan based on their budget.  The simulation will give decision makers insight into the expected risks and costs associated with the sele cted validation process, based on historical data and subject matter expertise 
 1 978-1-4244-3888-4/10/$25.00 \2512010 IEEE         1 IEEEAC paper#1585, Vers ion 3, Updated 2010:1:3 2 978-1-4244-3888-4/10/$25.00 \2512010 IEEE  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  1.1 Back ground 1  1.2 Scope and Purpose ..................................................... 2  1.3 Research Questions .................................................... 2 
 2  M ETHODOLOGY  2  2.1 Introduction ................................................................ 2  2.2. The Delp hi Meth od ................................................... 3  3  A NALYSIS AND RESULTS 3  3.1 Introduction ................................................................ 3  3.2 The CVM for R&D Sa tellite Valid ation .................... 3  3.2.1 The Initial CVM ...................................................... 3 
 3.2.2 Final CVM .............................................................. 4  3.3 Strategy Base d Risk M odel ........................................ 4  3.5 How to Apply the Simula tion ..................................... 5  3.6 Apply Simulation to Sample Program ........................ 6  3.6.1 Define the Valid ation Strategies .............................. 6  3.6.2 Simulation Results................................................... 7  4  C ONCLUSION AND R ECOMMENDATIONS  8  
4.1 Introduction ................................................................ 8  4.2 Conclusions of Research ............................................ 8  4.3 Significance of Research and Recommendations for Action .................................................................\.............. 8  4.4 Summary .................................................................... 9  R EFERENCES  9  B IOGRAPHY 9   1  I NTRODUCTION  1.1 Background Prior to launching a satellite, the satellite and ground system 
must undergo a series of verification and validation tests to ensure they are capable of co mmunicating with one another Through our combined six years of experience we have found that the validation of the compatibility between a satellite and its ground system is comprised of three main events: a compatibility test between the satellite, the ground system, and the Command Control and Communication C3\ node \(e.g. AFSCN, TDRSS, or other\, database command and telemetry\alidation, and data flow testing Although thorough verification, validation, and testing processes have been laid out between large budget satellite 


  2 programs and their ground systems, no such process has been defined for Research & Development \(R&D missions  Therefore, organizations that specialize in flying unique R&D satellites are presented with specific challenges because there is no standardized approach for validating the ground systems. Since there is no standardization of the system validation process, every satellite program varies or modifies its own validation plan because R&D satellite program offices have limited budgets  In addition to having limited budgets to dedicate to ground system development and opera tions, each stakeholder has a different methodology for conducting validation testing An example of this differen ce of opinion is between the Space Development and Test Wing \(SDTW\nd the Air Force Research Laboratory \(AFRL\ SDTW specializes in space technology demonstrati ons; this includes flying launching and funding experimental satellites missions.  A large quantity of these experiments satellite missions are developed and funded in part by AFRL, making them one of SDTW\222s largest customers.   SDTW and AFRL frequently disagree in regard to thei r stance on Launch Based Compatibility Tests \(LBCT\along with their parent organization, Space a nd Missile Systems Center SMC\the control of Air Force Space Command AFSPC\quire an LBCT.  AFRL, under Air Force Materiel Command \(AFMC\, feels an LBCT is frequently unnecessary.  This philosophical difference stems from AFRL working primarily in R&D, while most of AFSPC works with operational satellites.  Agencies are more likely to take risks with R&D satellites than with operational satellites upon which our military and country depends Even though the philosophical difference is understood, it has caused conflict within the organizations because AFMC has satellite control authority SCA\erates the satellites  Examples like the one presented above, stem from a difference in stakeholder priorities.    During every satellite mission there are a different set of stakeholders.  The stakeholders have different methods for validating compatibility between the satellite and the ground system These differences stem from adversity to risk, which is a direct result of their budget.  While no one wants to put a satellite into orbit that cannot communicate with the ground system, the office paying the validation bill is going scrutinize the necessity of the full validation process.  There are a number of ways to save cost during the validation process.  However, each event that is skipped to save cost will add risk to the program.  Knowing what risks a program could encounter will help the stakeholders assess what steps in the validation process are optimal for the program based on their budget.  Because veri fication and validation occur late in the lifecycle of a program, most of the budget reserve has been consumed. This is the worst time in a program to encounter a problem 1.2 Scope and Purpose The purpose of this thesis is to develop a simulation to generate distributions of possible risk and cost outcomes that will aide R&D satellite program offices in deciding what efforts are critical in validating the compatibility between a satellite and its ground system.  This model will help determine what validation activities are necessary and which can be eliminated to bala nce cost and risk.  For this thesis, validation refers to those activities that ensure the correct system was built as opposed to verification activities which ensure that the system was built correctly.  Validation determines the correctness and completeness of the end product and ensures the system satisfies the actual need of the stakeholders [Bahill & Henderson, 2004 R&D satellites frequently have to cut and modify steps during the validation of the satellite and its ground system, to meet budget.  Stakeholders can use this simulation to support discussions on balancing validation effort with cost and risk 1.3 Research Questions This thesis will answer the following questions in order to develop a simulation that generates distributions of possible costs and risk outcomes.  These outcomes are analyzed in relation to the impact events a ssociated with the realization of risks 1  What are the steps that need to be carried out as part of the process for validating the compatibility between the satellite and its ground system 2  What are the costs to co mplete each step of the validation process 3  What are the risks associated with not completing each step of the validation process 4  What is the desired balance between cost and risk for a given validation strategy 2  M ETHODOLOGY  2.1 Introduction Throughout this chapter we will present the methodology that we used to complete our thesis. We based our methodology on a study that Avner Engle and Miryam Barad completed on validation testing in the Israeli aircraft industry. In Engel and Barad\222s study they propose a methodology for modeling validation costs and risks. They laid out their methodology in four simple steps as shown in Figure 1 below [Engel & Barad, 2003    


  3  Figure 1: Methodology for quantitatively assessing system life cycle VVT and risk cost Engel & Barad 2003  Our research is based on Engel and Barad\222s, so we also broke our methodology into four steps.  The first step is broken into two parts.  \(1\Develop a model of all of the activities associated with validating the compatibility between an R&D satellite and its ground system.  \(2 Assign appropriate costs to ea ch activity.  In the second step we identified the program risks that can be mitigated by executing the steps in the validation process.  We also defined costs associated with the impacts of the risks Throughout steps one and two, we used the Delphi Method of collecting and distilling knowledge from a group of Subject Matter Experts \(SMEs\by means of a series of surveys.  The third step in our methodology was to create a simulation that generates distributions of possible cost and risk outcomes to be analyzed in relation to the information found in steps one and two. This simulation will help program offices make informed decisions about how to execute the validation process The fourth and final step in our methodology was to demonstrate the accuracy and usability of our simulation 2.2. The Delphi Method The Delphi Method is described within \223Measuring and Optimizing Systems\222 Quality Costs and Project Duration\224 by Avner Engel and Shalom Shachar, as a systematic interactive interviewing method which relies on a panel of independent experts [Engle & Shachar, 200 e th eo r y of the Delphi Method is that a structured group of experts will come to a more accurate \223correct\224 answer than an unstructured group. According to Linstone and Turoff authors of The Delphi Method: Techniques and Applications, the Delphi Method should be considered a communication process. It is particularly useful when attempting to gather current or historical information not accurately known or available evaluating possible budget allocations and creating the structure of a model.  From our experience we have found that there is no process for conducting validation of the compatibility of R&D satellites and their ground systems. We have also found that cost is almost always a decision driv er for the scope of these validation steps and we have created a model of this effort  3  A NALYSIS AND RESULTS  3.1 Introduction Throughout this chapter we will be examining the results we obtained through the Delphi Method.  We will be demonstrating how we used these results to create our simulation.  We will then be applying these results to a sample R&D satellite program and present program manager feedback to demonstrate the accuracy of our findings.  Initially we started with a draft of the validation process, which we provided to our SMEs using the Delphi Method.  Through their feedback, we identified the final validation process and costs a ssociated with executing each step in the validation process.  Through the Delphi Method our SMEs also provided the risks associated with the compatibility of a satellite and its ground system and what specific steps in the validation pr ocess mitigated these risks For each risk we asked our SM Es to define the probability of impact, severity of impact and impact costs.  From this information we were able to create a simulation that generates distributions of possible risk and cost outcomes This information will be used to help R&D satellite program offices evaluate the fidelity of their proposed validation strategy.  They can use our simulation to compare validation strategies and assess if their validation strategy is complete or if there are steps that can be skipped to preserve cost This section of our thesis will present these findings, discuss our SME feedback, apply our simulation and demonstrate the fidelity of this method 3.2 The CVM for R&D Satellite Validation We developed the initial Canonical Validation Model CVM\based on our combined six years of ground system and satellite compatibility validation testing.   This was provided to our SMEs for evaluation.  The final CVM was created based on the SME feed back through the Delphi process.  In the sections below we will present the initial and final CVMs 3.2.1 The Initial CVM Figure 2 depicts our initial draft of the validation process During the execution of the Delphi Method, we provided the draft CVM to our SMEs as a starting point for their comments.  This process was developed based on our combined six years of ground system and satellite compatibility validation testing within the RSC Throughout this time, we have been involved in the validation testing for six different satellite missions.  As each mission had a unique valida tion plan, they had unique CVMs 


  4  Figure 2: Initial Validation Process 3.2.2 Final CVM Figure 3 depicts the final the validation process.  This process was developed based on feedback ascertained throughout the Delphi Method. Many changes were made from the Initial Validation Process. We deleted Mission Dress Rehearsal because typically the ground system does not change after LBCT and is \223frozen\224 prior to this event therefore is not a part of the Validation Process. Also Exercises and Rehearsals were condensed, rather than calling out each Exercise and Rehearsal individually, one block is shown for Exercises and one block for Rehearsals This was done because Exercises and Rehearsals are mainly used as training events, but they have a secondary mission of testing the ground system and operational concept under realistic loading conditions.  Al so Exercises and Rehearsals are often executed as need ed throughout the Validation Process.  Our SMEs concluded from this that they did not need to be individually called out in our process. The order of the Validation Process was debated throughout the surveys. Finally all SMEs concurred that the order of the Validation Process will vary from mission to mission particularly the placement of Ex ercises and Rehearsals. This is due to uncertain and changing launch dates and availability of key personnel All of the SMEs agreed the order of our Final Validation Process represented a typical R&D satellite program   Figure 3: Final Validation Process  3.3 Strategy Based Risk Model During the Delphi Method, we asked our SMEs to list all of the risks associated with the compatibility between a satellite and its ground system.  These risks make up the SRM for ground system and satellite validation testing.  In order to develop the SRM we asked them to define the risk attributes and variables as well.  In total our SMEs identified 18 risks. Table 1 below lists a sample of the 18 risks, a description of each risk and the steps in the validation process that mitigate the ri sk.  Also included are: the probability of each risk being r ealized before executing the validation process, the prob ability of each risk being realized after executing the valid ation process, the severity of the impact of realizing the risk and the costs associated with that impact Table 1: Final Risk Table Sample    We have also included these ri sks in the SDTW risk matrix This matrix will allow program offices to easily assess whether this risk will be acceptable to SDTW leadership Table 2 displays the risk profile prior to executing the validation process.  Table 3 displays the risk profile after the validation process is completed assuming all risks are mitigated  Table 2: Final Risk Ma trix Before Validation  Table 3: Final Risk Matrix After Validation  Risk Description Probability before validation step Probability after validation step Impact Severity Impact Costs Steps 1 If SC a nd GS a re not RF Compa tible the n GS cannot communicate with SC and mission is lost 41-60 0-10 Critical 100,000,000.00 FCT and LBCT 2 If ARTS Iron Da ta ba s e is incorrect the n GS cannot communicate with SC and mission is lost 41-60 0-10 Critical 100,000,000.00 FCT, LBCT and CV 3 If cmds from ground system do not execute properly on SC then new command database will be required before commands can be used 41-60 0-10 Serious 1,000,000.00 CV 4 If there are telemetry incompatibilities and errors between the SC and GS  then telemetry may be reported incorrectly 41-60 0-10 Serious 1,000,000.00 TV 5 If there are telemetry is displayed incorrectly on GS  then telemetry may be reported incorrectly; could cause operator to incorrectly assess SOH of SC and take improper measures 41-60 0-10 Serious 1,000,000.00 TV, FCT and DFT 6 If Ground system software does not construct and release spacecraft command correctly then software will have to be modified before commands can be sent to the SC 11-40 0-10 Critical 100,000,000.00 CV, FCT and DFT 


  5  As we can see, from the Final Risk Table and the Risk Matrices above, Risk # 18, \223 If Post Pass processing does not format products correctly then delivered products will be improperly formatted \(i.e. tasking files\y resides in the lowest risks probability range: 0-10%, and therefore cannot be mitigated into a new probability range.  Risk # 18 also has a Minor Severity.   Because of this, we did not consider Risk #18 in our results when selecting validation strategies 3.5 How to Apply the Simulation This section will explain how our simulation was created and how it will be used by program offices to help develop a validation strategy that provides the best balance of risk mitigation and costs.  The simulation we have created will be easy for the program offices to use.  We created our simulation by using the empirical decision aided method for selecting a process to validate an R&D satellite and its ground system, and the SRM for ascertaining risk probability of impact, and severity of impact  The program office can use the results of our simulation to select a preferred validation strategy and defend the need to fund activities in the validation process to senior leadership It can also be used to illustrate the fact that various other steps in the validation process can be skipped with little impact to the mission.    Fo r a program office to use our simulation, they will follow a decision analysis plan.  This section will demonstrate how this works  First the program office will need to look over their satellite program and their ground system and determine what risks they may encounter from the 18 risks identified in our final risk table, Table 1.  The program office will determine their risk level through risk matrix before validation that we identified in Table 2, and dete rmine how much risk they can reduce by looking at the risk matrix after validation identified in Table 3  At this point, the program office will determine what risks they wish to mitigate.  They will do this by determining what their acceptable level of risk is for their program Every program is diff erent, but most tend to accept risks that are in the green and the yello w categories at the lowest possible probability of impact  After determining which risks the program wishes to mitigate, they will again reference the final risk table, Table 1.  This table identifies which validation efforts reduce which risks.  The program office will see that sometimes there is only one validation effort that will reduce that risk and in that case, they will complete that validation step However, sometimes multiple validation steps will mitigate the risk.  The program office will look at the costs associated with each validation effort.  They will also evaluate if they can execute one validation step to mitigate many of their targeted risks.  The program office will determine which validation steps they wish to complete based on the cost  The validation steps that the program office wishes to perform will be selected from drop down menus in the column labeled \223Options\224 in the \223Summary\224 sheet of our simulation based how they would like to execute the step The \223Summary\224 sheet is shown in Figure 4 below. For some steps the choice is either to execute the step or not to, but for other steps there are different options for how to execute the step.  These options depend mostly on launch site and launch vehicle  Figure 4: "Summary" Sheet of Simulation As we can see in Figure 4 abov e, a step in the validation process is executed using a drop down menu under the 223Option\224 column.  From this selection, the associated costs are populated and the total costs for a validation strategy is calculated using the equation presented in the methodology The SDTW risk matrix is also populated illustrating what risks have been mitigated by executing the selected validation strategy.    At this point, the program office can go to their leadership and list out in a systematic method what their program risks are, how they wish to mitigate them, and what the total validation cost will be  At this point the simulation is set up and can be run one time by pressing \223Control+M\224 or several times using a simple macro.  In order to gain statistical confidence, we ran the simulation 1000 times in every trial.  When the simulation is running, it decides whether a risk is an occurrence or nonoccurrence by selecting a random number Figure 5 is a screen shot of the \223After\224 sheet displaying whether each individual risk was an occurrence or a nonoccurrence.  If there is an impact displayed in the cell then the risk was an occurren ce, if the cell displays $0.00 then the risk was a nonoccurre nce.  Although only 9 risks are shown below, all 18 risks are considered Te st Option Operational Acceptance Testing None Before Validation After Validation Data Flow Testing None 709,055.61 958,247.07 Exercises None Rehearsals Three Rehearsals Factory Compatibility Testing TSTR Week in the Life Testing None Telemetry Validation Telemetry Validation Command Validation Command Validation Launch Based Compatibility Testing None Day in the Life Test None Te st Costs Operational Acceptance Testing 0.00 Data Flow Testing 0.00 Exercises 0.00 Rehearsals 423,900.00 Factory Compatibility Testing  393,600.00 Week in the Life Testing 0.00 Telemetry Validation 19,900.00 Command Validation 19,900.00 Launch Based Compatibility Testing 0.00 Day in the Life Test 0.00 Total Costs of Validation 857,300.00 Risks Short Title 1 RF Compatibility 2 RTS/SC Incompatibility Negligible Minor Moderate Serious Critical 3 GS/SC Command Incompatibility 0-10 17A, 18A 7A, 13A, 16A 3A, 4A, 5A, 12A 1A, 2A, 6A 4 GS/SC Telemetry Incompatibility 11-40 10A, 14A, 15A 8A, 9A 5 TLM Displays 41-60 11B 6 SC Commands 61-90 7 Post Pass Processing 91-100 8 Da ta Latency 9 New Command Format 10 SC Docum entation 11 GS Documentation 12 Maturity of SC 13 Maturity of GS 14 SC Truth Data 15 SC Comm and Samples 16 Ops requirements Total Life Cycle Costs with Realized Risk 


  6  Figure 5: \223After\224 Sh eet of Simulation From this the Risk Impact Costs and Overall Validation Costs are calculated using the equations presented in our methodology.  The Overall Validation Costs are displayed on the \223Overall Validation Costs\224 sheet of our simulation shown in Figure 6.  The aver age Overall Validation Costs are displayed on the \223Summa ry\224 sheet in Figure 4   Figure 6: "Overall Validation Costs" Sheet of Simulation This simulation can be executed as many times as the program office desires with many different validation strategies in order to compare these strategies and select the desired strategy for an individual program based on cost and risk aversion  3.6 Apply Simulation to Sample Program In order to demonstrate the usability and accuracy of our simulation we have applied it to a program that is currently performing validation activities in preparation for operations at SDTW.  This sample program currently holds a launch date within the next 12 months and will be operated as the first satellite on SDTW\222s newest multi-mission ground system 3.6.1 Define the Validation Strategies This program has a limited budget for validation due to launch vehicle problems that caused significant launch slips and severe costs increases.  In order to save money, the program office proposed a strategy for executing certain steps in the validation process and omitting others.  The program office proposed to execute all validation steps with the exception of: OAT, WITL, TV, CV and DITL.  This sample program is currently in the middle of the validation process and thus some steps have already been performed The sample program has executed a DFT, FCT and the first of two planned exercises The program office plans to execute Exercises and Rehearsals as well as a VFCT using TSTR at the factory two months prior to the launch.   Since this satellite is not launching from either the Eastern or Western Range, a LBCT with an ARTS was not an option The program office does not wish to send TSTR up to the launch site \(Kodiak, AK\due to the costs associated with shipping TSTR that far.  The satellite development contractor will conduct testing once the satellite has reached the launch site to ensure that satellite didn\222t sustain damage during shipment.  The costs associated with the program offices proposed validation strategy are shown in Table 4 below.  The risk matrix yielded by this proposed validation strategy is shown in Table 5.   As we can see in this table the risks that are not mitigated are: Risks 3, 4, 12 and 17 Table 4: Summary Program Office Proposed Validation Strategy   Table 5: Program Office Proposed Validation Strategy Risk Matrix   Because this sample program will be the first to fly on this new multi-mission ground system, SMC assigned an Independent Readiness Review Team \(IRRT ground system.  IRRTs are risk adverse and evaluate all programs on the same scale regardless of the budget The IRRT has recommended a proposed a strategy for the validation process.  The I RRT feels that all steps in the validation process were n ecessary with the exception of DITL.  In addition, th e IRRT feels that it was necessary to perform an LBCT at the launch site, rather than VFCT at the factory.  Th e IRRT insists that separate CV and TV are conducted as well as an OAT and WITL The costs associated with IRRTs proposed validation strategy are shown in Table 6 below.  The risk matrix yielded by this proposed validation strategy is shown in Table 7.  This risk matrix shows that the IRRT proposed validation strategy mitigates all identified risks Sum of Validation Costs Before  Sum of all Impact costs Before 0.00 101,395,000.00 Sum of Validation Costs After  Sum of all Impact After 1,517,150.00 150,000.00 Overall Validation Costs Before with Realized Risk Before Validation Overall Validation Costs After with Realized Risk After Validation 102,239,000.00 2,582,150.00 302,656,000.00 2,523,150.00 


  7 Table 6: Summary IRRT Proposed Validation Strategy  Table 7: IRRT Proposed Validation Strategy Risk Matrix  For the sample program we have also proposed a SME recommended validation strategy.  This strategy assumes that the steps in the validation process which have already been executed are considered \223sunk costs.\224  The SME recommended strategy acknowledges that the following steps in the validation process have already been successfully completed: DFT, FCT and the first of two planned exercises.  We recommend that in addition to the steps already completed, Exercises and Rehearsals be selected as part of the validat ion process because they have a primary objective of training and certification of the Mission Operations Team.  Since every R&D satellite mission is unique, each R&D mission requires training and certification of the Mission Op erations Team.  Because of this, Exercises and Rehearsals will be performed and should be used as steps in the validation process as well as training activities.  The final two steps in the validation process that we feel should be conducted are CV and TV.  These should be conducted because there are two significant risks, Risk 3 and Risk #4, which can only be mitigated by CV and TV respectively.  Risk #3 is: If commands from ground system do not execute properly on the satellite then a new command database will be required before commands can be used.  A full CV will ensure that every command executes as designed onboard the satellite.  Risk #4 is: If there are telemetry incompatib ilities and errors between the satellite and ground system then telemetry may be reported incorrectly.   TV, which includes the validation of real-time telemetry as well as post-pass processed files and limits ensure that telemetry is being processed correctly by the ground system and thus communicated correctly to the operators.  The costs of our proposed validation strategy considering \223sunk costs\224 are shown in Table 8 below.  The risk matrix yielded by this proposed validation strategy is shown in Table 9.  This risk matrix shows that our proposed validation strategy mitigates all identified risks Table 8: Summary Author Proposed Validation Strategy   Table 9: Author Proposed Validation Strategy Risk Matrix  Each of the proposed validation strategies was modeled using our simulation.  Three trials of 1000 simulation runs each were completed.  Three tria ls were preformed to ensure that the results were consistent and the simulation operated as designed.  The 3 trials of 1000 runs were also combined into 1 trial of 3000 runs 3.6.2 Simulation Results After running simulation trials on all three validation strategies, we created histograms of each trial so that they could be compared.  We also calculated the mean, standard deviation, range and median.  In this section we will be examining only the histogram comparing all of the validation strategies.  We will discussing out findings based on this histogram.  Figure 7 displays a comparison of all three validation strategies based on the 3000 run trial.  In Figure 7, the Y axis is possible overall validation costs and the X axis is the probability of the simulation resulting in the overall validation costs  Figure 7: Validation Strategy Comparison 


  8  As we can see from the histogram in Figure 7, the median value for these validation strategies is between $1M and $3M.  Comparing the median value for different validation strategies helps assess which strategy to choose The average overall validation cost for each option is between $17M and $20M.  Unfortunately, the average overall cost is not as useful for decision making in this situation because of the large range of overall validation costs.  Figure 7 shows that th ere is not only a very large range within the possible overall validation costs, but also there is a large area where th e overall validation costs did not \223hit\224 in the simulation at all.  This is an interesting phenomenon that is unique to unmanned spaceflight Currently, if there is an irreso lvable problem with satellite to ground system compatibility once the satellite is on-orbit the mission is lost. Three of the risks identified by our SMEs have impacts that are loss of mission.  These impact costs equal the cost of the entire mission, approximately 100M dollars.  If one of these risks is realized then the overall validation cost elevates to over $100M.  If two of these risks are realized then the cost rises to above $200M and if all three risks are realized then the cost is over 300M.  Because of these thr ee risks, there are three large bins where there can be no overall validation costs  We will present our findings and interpretations based on the sample program.  Table 10 compares the three validation strategies examined for this sample program.   This is done by comparing the cost of completing the validation strategy the average overall validation cost, the standard deviation the range of overall validation costs, and the median overall validation cost for each strategy Table 10: Comparison of Validation Strategies   From looking at the mean and the mode, the most commonly occurring value, we can conclude that both option 2 and option 3 are superior options to option 1 Option 3 is displayed as the best option because it not only is the least expensive, but also mitigates all of the risks. As we compare this data in attempt to identify a desired validation strategy, it is important to note that there is no right answer.  Each program office needs to use the simulation provided and then evaluate it based on the factors that are most important to them 4  C ONCLUSION AND R ECOMMENDATIONS  4.1 Introduction When we started this research, we set out to create a simulation that would generate distributions of possible risk and cost outcomes.  This simulation would in turn aid Research and Developmental \(R&D\ program offices in analyzing the risks associated with the compatibility between satellites and their ground systems We wanted to help these program offices decide which risks need to be mitigated and which risks can be accepted at their current level.  We also wanted to help them decide the more efficient way to mitigate thes e risks through the validation process.  Throughout this chapter we will be discussing the conclusions and significance of our research 4.2 Conclusions of Research This paper examined readiness and on-orbit activities of R&D satellite programs and attempted to accurately define the process for validating the compatibility between a satellite and its ground system.  Using historical program data together with Subject Matter Experts \(SMEs thesis mirrors the method outlined by Engel & Barad in \223A Methodology for Modeling VVT Risks and Costs.\224  Our thesis identified all of the steps within the process of validating the compatibility between a satellite and ground system. We created a simulati on that can assist program offices in determining which st eps in the validation process they should execute, and whic h they can skip based on the risks they are most concerned with.  Through the Delphi Method we concluded that the final Canonical Verification Validation and Testing \(VVT\odel \(CVM\nted is a complete and correct CVM of the validation process.  We also concluded that the risks identified by our SMEs through the Delphi Method are a complete and accurate list of risks.  The attributes and variables for these risks were identified via the Strategy Based Risk Model \(SRM\of this allowed us to create a simulation that generates distributions of risk and cost outcomes.  If this simulation is executed a large number of times, conclusions can be drawn about how much of the budget should be saved for contingency costs.  If the simulation is executed with more than one validation strategy, it can be used as a comparison tool for selecting a desired validation method  In the future we will be distributing this technique and simulation to program offices to support tailoring a validation plan based on their budget.  The technique and simulation will give decision makers insight into the expected risks and costs associated with the selected validation process so that they can make informed decisions They will be able to understand and accept risks with reasonable probability and sever ity of impacts, and ensure that risks with unreasonable probability and severity of impacts are mitigated to the fullest extent possible 4.3 Significance of Resear ch and Recommendations for Action The technique and simulation developed in this thesis will be invaluable to R&D satellite program offices.  These program offices often deal with diminishing budgets Because R&D satellites are not considered by Air Force Space Command \(AFSPC\o be operational, they have much smaller budgets than operational satellite.  The typical budget for an R&D satellite program office at SDTW is 


  9 between $30M and $200M.  Some operational satellites have budgets of more than $1B  R&D satellites often do not have a dedicated launch vehicle They often share a launch vehicle with as many as 6 other satellites.  Therefore it is important for R&D satellites to be flexible and responsive.  These budget and schedule constraints present R&D progra m offices with the unique challenge of deciding which program risks to mitigate and which to accept  Our technique and simulation allow program offices to make this assessment by providing them with the program risks, the steps in the validation process that mitigate these risks, and the impacts of these risks.  The simulation allows the program offices to generate distributions of possible risk and cost outcomes based on their chosen validation strategy Program offices can compare seve ral validation strategies to help decide which strategy is best for them.    Using our technique these program offices will be able to provide quantitative data to defend decisions.  They will be able to explain why certain steps in the validation process are necessary and why other steps in the validation process may not be.  While our research was completed using R&D satellite programs; we feel there is another initiative currently in DoD that ca n apply our technique and simulation as well.  Operationally Responsive Space \(ORS is the vision for the future of military space. In future conflicts, military space forces will likely face challenges ranging from defending against opposing systems to dealing with rapidly changing technology and support needs.  The goal of ORS is to provide an affordable capability to promptly, accurately, and decisively position and operate national and military assets in and through space and near space. [Doggrell, 2006  of ORS are t o  be affordable and responsive, we feel that our risk management and decision analysis technique is an excellent way to help accomplish their goals.  Our recommendation for action is that all SDTW and ORS satellite program offices adopt this technique and associated simulation for on-going and future mission 4.4 Summary In summary we were able to develop a technique by using the Delphi Method to evaluate a validation process for compatibility between a satellite and its grounds system Through the Delphi Method we were also able to determine what risks were associated with ground system and satellite compatibility.  We were able to provide a point estimate for the costs associated with each validation step and ascertain costs and severity of each risk identified.  Finally through the Delphi Method we were able to determine what validation steps mitigated which risks.  This technique was used to create a simulation that generates distribution of outcomes based on risk and cost  The technique and simulation will be given to program offices.  This will help them save time when determining what risks their program has for ground system and satellite compatibility, as we believe the 18 risks identified through this process is an all encompassing list.  It will also allow them to determine the best validation process based on their program risks and budget and will allow them to go to their leadership with this process showing risks before and after validation and the cost associated with the validation process R EFERENCES   Engel  Avner and  B a rad, M i r y am 223A M e t hodol ogy f o r  Modeling VVT Risks and Costs\224.  Wiley-Interscience 6 3\5-150, 2003  Engel Av ner  and Schachar, Shal o m  223M easuri ng and  Optimizing Systems\222 Quality Costs and Project Duration\224.  Wiley-Interscience, New York. 9\(3\ 259-280 2006  Li nst one Harol d A. and Turoff, M u r r a y 223The Del phi Method, Techniques and Applications\224, 5-6 http://is.njit.edu/pubs/delphibook/delphibook.pdf 2002  A Vision for the Future of Military Space. Air & Space Power Journal\224 Summer 2006 B IOGRAPHY  Amanda Langenbrunner is a Captain in the United States Air Force. She has worked at SDTW for over three years. She has been the Operations Flight Commander for the squadron within SDTW that operates R&D satellites She is currently working for the DoD Space Test Program STP\ manifesting R&D satellite missions. She has a Bachelor\222s of Science in Ceramic Engineering from The University Of Washington and a Master\222s of Science in Systems Engineering from the Air Force Institute of Technology   Mary Trautwein is a Captain in the United States Air Force She has worked at SDTW for over three years. She has been an On-Orbit Mission Lead, a Mission Ground System and Satellite Test Lead and a Mission Ground System Development Lead. All of these missions flew, or will fly out of SDTW.  She has a Bachelor\222s of Science in Chemical Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a Master\222s of Science in Syst ems Engineering from the Air Force Institute of Technology 


Hilchenbachc, D. Mourad, H. Rosenbauerc, H Scheuerlea, R.Willneckera, "Rosetta Lander  Philae Implications of an alternative mission,". Acta Astronautica 58: pp. 435  441, 2006 15] J. Biele, "The Experiments Onboard the ROSETTA Lander," Journal Earth, Moon, and Planets, 90 \(1-4 445  458, 2002 16] D. J. Scheeres, E. I. Asphaug, J. Colwell, R. Dissly, P E. Geissler, L. A. McFadden, V. Petr, R. Reinert, H Yano  Asteroid Surface Science with Pods  Abstract 1444, 34th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference 2003 17] R. W. Dissly, D. Ebbets, R. Reinert, and C. Grund  Surface Probes for the In-Situ Characterization of Small Bodies  Abstract #3035, Workshop on Spacecraft Reconnaissance of Asteroid and Comet Interiors \(2006 18] D. Ebbets, R. Dissly, R. Reinert  Small Landing Probes for In-situ Characterization of Asteroids and Comets  209th Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Seattle, WA \(2007 19] D. Ebbets, R. Reinert, R. Dissly  Small Landing Probes for In-Situ Characterization of Asteroids and Comets  Abstract #2104, 38th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference \(2007 20] R Dissly and R Reinert  Small Surface Probes for the In-Situ Characterization of Asteroids and Comets  7th IAA International Conference on Low-Cost Planetary Missions, Pasadena, CA \(2007 21] Richardson D. C., Leinhardt Z. M., Melosh H. J., Bottke Jr. W. F., and Asphaug E. \(2002 Aggregates: Evidence and Evolution. In Asteroids III \(W F. Bottke Jr. et al., eds Tucson 22] Chapman C. R. \(2002 Galileo and NEAR Shoemaker. In Asteroids III \(W. F Bottke Jr. et al., eds Tucson 23] Benz W. and Asphaug E. \(1999 Disruptions Revisited. Icarus, 142, 5-20 24] Pravec P., Harris A. W., and Michalowski T. \(2002 Asteroid Rotations. In Asteroids III \(W. F. Bottke Jr. et al., eds BIOGRAPHY Chris Cottingham is a systems engineer at Ball Aerospace &amp Technologies Corp.  He is currently providing systems engineering / project management support to programs in the commercial and defense business units and well as the new business area.  He is the intern / co-op coordinator for systems engineering and has acted as a mentor for past interns.  He has previously worked on the implementation and optimization of many of Ball  s execution tools and processes.  He received his B.S.E. in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Notre Dame William Deininger is a staff consultant in systems engineering at Ball Aerospace &amp; Technologies Corp.  He was the functional manager for the Mission Systems Engineering group and prior to that, the Kepler Flight Segment Manager.  In addition to his role on Kepler, he was the Chief Systems Engineer on the Mars Micromissions and then StarLight Projects. He supports many proposals for NASA AOs including New Frontiers 


many proposals for NASA AOs including New Frontiers Discovery, MIDEX and SMEX opportunities, and focused mission RFPs such as Micromissions, ST3, LightSAR, ST5 TPF, and Constellation X. Bill has also supported various defense new business and proposal work. Prior to Ball Aerospace, Bill worked at FIATAVIO-BPD in Italy for 9 years and as a Member of the Technical Staff at JPL for 8 years. Bill is a member of the IEEE and an Associate 11 Fellow of the AIAA. He received his Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering from the Universit  degli Studi di Pisa in Italy his M.S. in Plasma Physics from Colorado State University and his B.S. degree in Physics from the State University of New York at Cortland Richard Dissly is a Staff Scientist at Ball Aerospace, primarily supporting in situ instrument development and mission opportunities in planetary sciences He has pursued research in both planetary and Earth sciences for the past 12 years. Previously Dr Dissly spent five years at NOAA where he developed instrumentation for accurate in-situ measurements of tropospheric pollutants.  Dr. Dissly holds a doctorate in planetary sciences from Caltech Kenny Epstein has more than 28 years of experience in the design of aerospace vehicles. He is currently the Spacecraft Design Manager at Ball Aerospace &amp; Technologies Corp. His primary duties are to develop and manage new spacecraft for wide variety of missions and customers.  Prior to Ball, he was employed at Lockheed Martin Missiles &amp; Space leading teams during conceptual development, proposal development, and new product development on a wide variety of spacecraft. Prior to Lockheed Martin Missiles &amp; Space he was employed at Lockheed Martin Skunk Works  as a lead configuration designer on several aircraft programs.  He received his B.S in Civil Engineering from the University of Colorado Dan Scheeres is the A. Richard Seebass Endowed Chair Professor in the Department of Aerospace Engineering Sciences at the University of Colorado at Boulder Prior to this, he held positions at the University of Michigan \(19992007 1997  1999 Navigation Systems Section at the California Institute of Technology's Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(1992  1997 1992 M.S.E. \(1988 1987 Engineering from the University of Michigan, and holds a B.S. in Letters and Engineering from Calvin College \(1985 He is a Fellow of the American Astronautical Society, an Associate Fellow of the AIAA, and a member of the American Astronomical Society and its Divisions of Planetary Science and Dynamical Astronomy, and the International Astronomical Union. He is currently serving as an Associate Editor for the journals Celestial Mechanics amp; Dynamical Astronomy, the Journal of Guidance, Control and Dynamics, the Journal of the Astronautical Sciences and the Journal of Nonlinear Science Dave Waller is a mechanical engineer within the spacecraft design group at Ball Aerospace &amp 


Technologies Corp.  He is involved in all aspects of satellite design including mechanical design structural analysis, and systems engineering for both civil and defense applications.  He provides continuous support for new business proposals and is a mentor for company interns as well as senior design projects at the University of Colorado Boulder.  He has a B.S.E in Aerospace Engineering from Arizona State University and M.S.E in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Colorado Boulder pre></body></html 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Michael A. Mischna is an atmospheric scientist with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory focusing on the atmospheres and climates of terrestrial planets. He was the EDL Atmosphere Team Lead for the Mars Phoenix Mission. His research interests include longterm evolution of the martian climate, the role of greenhouse gases in providing habitable environments and surfaceatmosphere interactions. Dr. Mischna has a B.S. in atmospheric science from Cornell University, an M.S. in meteorology from the Pennsylvania State University and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Geophysics and Space Physics from the University of California, Los Angeles  Seungwon Lee is a member of the technical staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Her research interests include genetic algorithms, lowthrust trajectory design nanoelectronics, quantum computation, parallel cluster computation and advanced scientific software modernization techniques. Dr. Lee received her Ph.D. in Physics from the Ohio State University in 2002 Her work is documented in numerous journals and conference proceedings  Mark Allen is supervisor of the Earth and Planetary Atmospheres Group and Principal Scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. His research interests include remote detection of trace atmospheric species, and the role of atmospheric chemistry on the atmospheres of Mars, Venus and Titan. He was the PI of the MARVEL Mars Scout proposal, and is a co-investigator on the MIRO microwave instrument on the Rosetta Orbiter. Dr Allen has a B.A. from Columbia University and received a Ph.D. in Chemistry from the California Institute of Technology in 1976     Richard J. Terrile created and leads the Evolutionary Computation Group at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory. His group has developed genetic algorithmbased tools to improve on human design of space systems and has demonstrated that computer aided design tools can also be used for automated innovation and design of complex systems. He is an astronomer, the Mars Sample Return Study Scientist, the JIMO Deputy Project Scientist and the co-discoverer of the Beta Pictoris circumstellar disk. Dr. Terrile has B.S. degrees in Physics and Astronomy from the State University of New York at Stony Brook and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Planetary Science from the California Institute of Technology in 1978 
 


  14  
 


Available Array Energy 60297 W-hr Battery Recharge Energy Losses 93 W-hr Shunt Energy Losses 20% Battery W-hr 187 W-hr Remaining Electrical Energy 60017 W-hr Power Conversion Losses 80% Efficiency 12003 W-hr Harness Losses \(4 Available Diurnal Load Energy \(CBE Average Load Energy Supported 67.9 W Array Area 0.20 m2 12 specifically the seismometer and magnetometer continuously while other instruments such as the heat flow probes may operate intermittently. The retroreflector does not require any thermal control resources. Telecom between the Earth and the hub or from the remote units to the hub would be during the lunar day only  Description of the Design  A thermal blanket \(MLI Silver-Teflon would be used to moderate the temperature variation of the surface. The MLI and the lunar material thermal conduction properties could be used to insulate the different ALGEP elements from the external environment  The Mars Exploration Rover thermal switch and a thermal radiator with thermal louvers would be used to reject the internally generated thermal energy. The MER Thermal Switch has the ability to transfer up to 11 W. For the hub three or four switches may be necessary, depending on the RF power output  Potentially a small electric heater/thermostat system may be needed \(on the order of 10% of the dissipated electrical energy example, the seismometer, which dissipates 1.5 W, may need a 0.15 W heater. A detailed thermal analysis would be necessary to further assess this need  The ALGEP hardware location would be dictated by the science requirements. Each ALGEP element could be either positioned on the surface or buried.  An example of a buried element would be the seismometer, while the hub could be surface mounted. In either case a surface blanket would be required. The surface blanket would minimize the lunar temperature variation, from a range of -173 to ~127  C to a range under the blanked between approximately -73 to 27  C. Initial calculations indicate that the blanket extending about 0.5 m beyond the edge of the instrument or hub would provide the temperature control of the lunar surface required to minimize the temperature variation. For the lunar night, a small electric heater may be needed to keep the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits  For polar region operation it is assumed that the ALGEP could operate at all times as the solar arrays would always have incident solar energy and could provide electrical power for operations.  Thus with electrical power for the instruments and hub, the thermal radiator and louvers could maintain the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits. Initial calculations indicate that the current conceptual thermal control design does not require electric heaters for this location  Design Rationale  The design uses MLI, thermal conduction control, electric heaters, thermal radiators thermal louvers, and a deployed surface blanket to provide thermal control to maintain the remote units and hub within specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would 


specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would minimize the temperature variation of the surface, and electric heaters would provide makeup thermal energy  Risk  The thermal subsystem design is a low to moderate risk element, as the hardware used has extensive flight experience. Although this system would be on the surface of the Moon, the environment would be space-like, with the  Figure 6  ALGEP avionics block diagram showing the power and command and data handing  interface. This is a low-power design to enable data collection during lunar night at the remote units. The hub  contains the same avionics package but does not interface with an instrument  13 exception of the infrared heating of the lunar surface therefore the space qualified thermal control hardware could provide thermal control for this mission  Command and Data Handling Subsystem Design Requirements  The ALGEP controller is designed to meet the six year mission lifetime requirement stemming from the science objectives flowing down to the mission requirements and has a technology cutoff of 2016 \(assumes a 2020 launch interface to the science instrument and the UHF radio.  The controller for the hub interfaces to the UHF and S-band radios. Each type of controller would be single string  Design Assumptions  All selected electronic parts for the controller have a path to flight hardware with a technology cutoff of 2016. There would be one ALGEP hub that has a bi-directional S-band link to Earth and a UHF receiver link to the remote instrument units. There would be four ALGEP remote units that have UHF transmitters to link to the ALGEP hub. The controllers would have an operating temperature range: -20  C to 35  C. The total ionizing dose of radiation would be 2 krads for the mission  Description of the Design  Both controller designs would incorporate low-powered Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs devices and I/O drivers.  Portions of the existing MultiMission System Architecture Platform \(MSAP Engineering Unit \(REU IP provide the mission clock and alarm clock logic.  Both the hub and remote unit controllers would capture engineering data regarding temperatures, currents and voltages. Figure 6 provides an overview of the command and data handling and power subsystem architectures.  The remote units would be supplied with 2 Gb of memory and the hub would have 5 Gb of memory  Design Rationale  A low-powered avionics architecture would be achieved by developing a stand-alone controller capable of operating at various power levels. In the lowest power configuration only the mission clock and alarm clock logic would be active. Other logic, analog and I/O functions would be power strobed in the off mode during this very low-power mode. Science and engineering data would be stored in non-volatile memory elements that retain their data in the power-off mode  Risk  The controller requires engineering development to obtain the low-powered mode required for night operation However, it has been designed to incorporate components with flight heritage. A lower frequency oscillator would be used to reduce power  Telecom Subsystem 


Design Requirements  The telecom subsystem is designed to return 3.4 Gb of stored data every 16 days during lunar night in addition to 1.2 Gb of additional data collected each 24 hour period during daylight. This translates into a minimum direct-to-Earth return data rate of ~50 kbps for an 8 hour pass each Earth day for 16 days of sunlight. The subsystem must operate down to a temperature of -20  C and survive non-operational temperature of -50  C. The telecom subsystem would support two-way communications between the hub and the DSN network. It would also support two-way communications between the hub and each of the remote instrument packages on the surface. There would be a minimum 3 dB margin for the direct-to-Earth DTE  Design Assumptions  The telecom subsystem is assumed to be a single string design. The hub would have an S-band radio and antenna for two-way communications with a DSN 34 m ground station. The nominal downlink rate would be 120 kbps and the uplink rate would be 2 kbps. The surface links would be at UHF. The forward link data rate would be 8 kbps and the return rate would be 256 kbps. The maximum range for the surface links would be 100 m. All of the surface links would have line-of-sight between the units. It is assumed that the astronauts would point the Sband antenna towards Earth, within 5  of the center of Earth. This should be relatively easy to do as 5  is a very loose pointing requirement and the uplink/downlink would be marginally affected if the pointing is off by a little more than 5  A signal could be added which would use an uplink from the Earth to give a relative signal power to ensure the pointing requirement is met  Description of the Design  The telecom subsystem would use a commercial off-the-shelf S-band transponder \(L3 CXS-610 has a 5 W power amplifier and an S-band diplexer included This radio is used on GRAIL and a similar unit was used on Genesis. The diplexer would be connected to an S-band low gain antenna \(LGA be a 2-element S-band patch array with a boresight gain of 9 dB. It would be mounted on the end of one solar array on the hub and gimbaled to allow the astronaut to point it to the Earth  The hub communicates with each of the remote instrument units in UHF using a new UHF micro-transceiver. Each UHF microtransceiver would have a radio frequency output power of 50 mW. The UHF transceiver would use a halfduplex system meaning it would transmit and then listen However, it cannot do both at the same time. The UHF links would use a simple UHF monopole antenna, similar to the antennas flown on MER, and mounted on the top of the hub and remote units. The hub could only communicate with one remote unit at a time. Figure 7 shows the hub and remote unit telecom block diagrams  The S-Band telemetry link has a margin of 7.0 dB for a telemetry rate of 120 kbps into a 34 m beam waveguide ground station. The data rate could be increased to reduce 14 playback time. The surface link would have a margin exceeding 20 dB for a return data rate of 256 kbps. This includes a multipath loss allotment of 20 dB. The margin would be large because the range would be so small and all of the links would be line of sight  Design Rationale  Where available, the design of this subsystem uses heritage hardware. The UHF microtransceiver is a radio that is under development for the Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, low 


Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, lowpower and low temperature operation. The S-band antenna would be a smaller, simpler version of the antenna that flew on Deep Impact. Other antenna options would be available The UHF antennas have been flown on previous Mars lander/rover missions. There would be other alternatives for the S-band antenna and the UHF transceiver on the hub could use a larger power amplifier to talk to an orbiting asset as a backup to the S-band radio  Risk  The highest risk items for telecom would be the single string design for each element and six year design lifetime. However, the S-band radio has flight heritage. The UHF radios would be a new design but do not require new technology. They would be an engineering development 8. SYSTEM SUMMARY Mass Equipment List Table 5 shows a summary of the mass and power for each of the subsystems for the remote instrument units. The mass of one remote unit without the specified instrument is 26.6 kg with contingency specified at the subsystem level based on heritage. Table 6 shows a summary of mass and power by subsystem for the hub. The mass of the hub with contingency is 44.9 kg. Table 7 shows a mass summary for the entire package with appropriate contingencies added per the JPL  s Flight Project Practices and Design Principles Design Principles. The package totals 218.2 kg which includes four remote units, five instruments, one hub, and the carrier container\(s Table 5. Mass and power summary for remote units Remote Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 2.0 kg 29% 2.5 kg 0 W Telecom UHF 0.2 24% 0.3 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour 3 W Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 20.6 kg 29% 26.6 kg Diplexer S-Band Downconverter STDN command data to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r S-Band Exciter 9 dBi S-Band LGA UHF Downconverter Small UHF transceiver command data to S/C CDS 


to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r UHF PA UHF Monopole Command data to C&amp;DH Command dat  to C&amp;DH  Figure 7  Telecom block diagram for the S-band \(top bottom  units would be located on the hub while the remote units only contain a UHF system 15 9. OPERATIONAL SCENARIOS Daytime Operations During the day, the remote units and hub would be fully operational. The remote units would collect data from their instruments as specified by the science team and store it in the controller memory. Table 8 shows the data volume expected from each instrument. After 24 hours have passed the UHF telecom system on the hub is used to poll each of the remote units separately at the designated interval for the stored data. The hub then transmits the data direct-to-Earth using the S-band radio. This requires a maximum of eight hours at 50 kbps each day using the DSN 34 m antennas However, data rates as high as 120 kbps may be achieved reducing the downlink time. The hub has enough memory margin to accumulate data from all the instruments for three Earth days before it must downlink the data Nighttime Operations During nighttime operations, data collection at the remote units would be taking place. The magnetometer and seismometer collect data continuously. However, the seismometer operates at a reduced mode where the sampling rate is reduced to one-half of the daytime rate which has been deemed more than adequate by the science team. The remaining instruments collect data at various intervals that would be conducive to the science team  s current requirements. Telecom events would not be scheduled during the lunar night. The data accumulates in the controller memory over 16 Earth days \(~14 days at an equatorial location would be considered a worse case so two days have been added to be conservative data volume summary for each instrument during a 16 Earth day lunar night. When the sun comes up and the hub and remote units have sufficient power to run the telecom systems the hub polls each remote unit separately at a designated interval similar to operations during the day. The data would then be transmitted to Earth gradually over the next few days using the S-band radio Table 7. Mass summary for total package Unit Mass Contingency Mass + contingency 4 Remote Units 82.4 kg 29% 106.4 kg Hub 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg Instruments including cabling 17.3 kg 30% 22.5 kg Carrier Container\(s Total with heritage contingency 153.1 kg 29% 197.5 kg  System contingency  21.4 kg 14 Total Package  43% 218.9 kg Table 8. Instrument data volumes received at the hub over one Earth day in daylight operations Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub 


Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 236 Magnetometer 58 Heat Flow Probe 2 Seismic Sounder 700 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 6 Total 1002 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 80  Table 6. Mass and power summary for hub Hub/Base Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 13.4 kg 28% 17.2 kg 0 W Telecom UHF Telecom S-band 3.4 15% 3.9 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour W \(day Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg 2.38 W avg at night  16 10. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS The ALGEP modular design builds upon lessons learned from Apollo era ALSEP package and technology advances since that time. ALGEP meets the requirements of long lifetime survival while maintaining continuous operation of its instruments during the lunar night which can last up to 16 days at equatorial regions on the Moon. The package would be powered using solar arrays and batteries alone not requiring nuclear sources to supply power or maintain thermal control. This concept is feasible due to its lowpower operational mode at night The modular design and packaging scheme provides flexibility in deployment across all regions of the Moon including the farside pending the availability of an orbital communications asset. The relatively light ALGEP package could be accommodated on astronaut activity support vehicles, providing a method to distribute the packages across the Moon, ultimately gaining a Moon-wide understanding of lunar geophysical properties ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by the NASA Lunar Sortie Science Opportunities Program The work described in this publication was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration References herein to any specific commercial product process or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer 


or otherwise does not constitute or imply its endorsement by the United States Government or the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology REFERENCES 1] NRC  Scientific Context for Exploration of the Moon   Washington D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2007 2] Apollo 11 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-214, 1969 3] Apollo 12 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-235, 1970 4] Apollo 14 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-272, 1971 5] Apollo 15 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-289, 1972 6] Apollo 16 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-315, 1972 7] Apollo 17 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-330, 1973 8] ALSEP Termination Report, NASA RP-1036, 1979 9] NRC  New Frontiers in the Solar System: an Integrated Exploration Strategy  Decadal Survey D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2003 10] International Lunar Network Science Definition Team Final Report, 2009 BIOGRAPHY Melissa Jones is a member of the technical staff in the Planetary and Lunar Mission Concepts Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  Current work includes development of small Lunar lander concepts and instrument packages to deploy on the Moon,  Report Manager for the Titan Saturn System Mission Outer Planets Flagship Mission study, and staffing various concept studies as a systems engineer on Team X, JPL  s mission design team.  Melissa graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry and a Ph.D. in Space and Planetary Science from the University of Arkansas  Linda Herrell has a BA in math/computer science/languages \(University of Texas fluids and heat transfer \(City College of New York addition to analytical work in computer science and thermal and structural analysis, she has worked as both a payload \(instrument Earth orbiting \(Hubble Space Telescope, Earth Observing System \(EOS Cassini as Proposal Manager for several NASA science missions She currently serves as the Program Architect for NASA's New Millennium Program    Table 9. Instrument data volumes generated at the hub after 16 Earth day lunar night Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 1980 Magnetometer 920 Heat Flow Probe 5 Seismic Sounder 0 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 72 Total 2977 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 40  17 Bruce Banerdt has been a research geophysicist at the California Institute of Technology's Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1977, where he does research in planetary geophysics and instrument development for flight projects. He has been on science teams for numerous planetary missions 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


