  1 Onboard Cognitive Radio Architecture for Space Assets Communication Sahana Raghunandan, Shereef Sayed, Tamal Bose, Jeffrey Reed Wireless @ VT 432 Durham Hall Blacksburg VA, 24060 sahanarb, ssayed, tbose, reedjh}@vt.edu   Abstract  Modeling the space environment of a planet including three dimensional dynamic \223imaging\224 of the magnetosphere warrants the use of constellations of many spacecrafts. Communication among the various space assets and exchange of mission data for more efficient storage and analysis call for a dynamic and reliable technology capable of managing ad-hoc requests subjected to system and environmental constraints. In this paper 
12 we propose a cognitive radio architecture that can be used as an extension to space based software defined radio. Simulink is used to demonstrate the behavioral model of a system that represents the executable specifications. In order to illustrate some of the key features of the architecture, a basic model has been created in Simulink. This modeling would enable future implementation of the architecture and support any debugging or restructuring T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2 
 K EY C HALLENGES IN S PACE B ASED C OMMUNICATION 2  3  A RCHITECTURE 3  4  S YSTEM M ODELING AND A NALYSIS 6  5  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK 9 
 R EFERENCES 10  B IOGRAPHY 11  1  I NTRODUCTION  Space assets such as satellites relay elements and space shuttles have increasingly become important sources of information as sensors acquiring scientific data related to Earth, Sun, the solar system and beyond. In this eventuality it is very important to constantly evolve the onboard communication infrastructure to support the increasing demand in data rate, performance and improve science data retrieval of future space exploratory missions. While 
mission data accumulated from science applications on spacecrafts or orbiters is generally voluminous, the downlink spectrum allocated for their transfer is limited. A good example that elucidates th is point is the future Earth Science Enterprise mission of National Aeronautics and Space Administration  NASA\hat aims at understanding the total Earth system and the effects of natural and humaninduced changes on the global environment in addition to  1 978-1-4244-3888-4/10/$25.00 \2512010 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1592, Version 4 Updated January 4, 2010  enabling improved prediction of climate, weather, and natural hazards for present and future generations. This involves a scenario where all Earth observing spacecrafts 
flying in formation, in clusters or in constellations, form a distributed network to provide real-time multi-sensor information transfer to users on the ground. Such future missions necessitate an intellige nt technique for science data return that would optimize the usage of the spectrum allocated for space communications in addition to efficiently managing the radio resources for specific science applications Two of the most important factors that influence data rates in wireless channels are bandwidth and signal-to-noise ratio SNR\ndwidth can be au gmented by including vacant spectral bands for science data transfer. Although there may be a dedicated channel for data transfer, it can be expanded based on the usage of the remaining channels. In order to 
maintain the specifi ed SNR, the onboard space radio would be required to monitor the interference or cosmic disturbances in the downlink channel and accordingly schedule data storage and transmission activities Ultimately, the objective is to maximize the science value by allowing faster access to the acquired science data through relay links operating anywhere in the solar system for analysis by the science co mmunity. At the same time the end-to-end performance of the system including the transmitter, relay elements, channel and receiver needs to be maximized. This serves as a motivation for employing dynamic spectrum access \(DSA\with cognitive radio technology In this paper, we propose a cognitive radio architecture that 
can be used as an extension to space based software defined radio. The Space Telecomm unications Radio System STRS\rrently being implemented for future space communication purposes lends itself to cognitive radio operation in unprecedented space environments where optimization of communication parameters would be essential. The proposed cognitive radio architecture includes a cognitive engine that operates in three basic modes namely, monitoring, learning and reasoning modes. This cognitive engine runs in tandem with the service management layer to perform automated system diagnosis and radio resource management  


  2 Simulink is used to demonstrate the behavioral model of a system that represents the exec utable specifications. In order to illustrate some of the key features of the architecture, a basic model has been created in simulink. This modeling would enable future implementation of the architecture and support any debugging or restructuring 2  K EY C HALLENGES IN S PACE B ASED C OMMUNICATION  Efficient transfer of science data from spacecrafts to ground stations or other spacecrafts, as is the case in Deep Space missions, can be viewed as a problem of space networking and communication. Traditional mission support scheme is labor intensive with mission-specific communication goals that make poor use of the li mited resources available. In order to meet the demands of future space communication requirements, it is highly critical to develop a flexible communication system support for multiple missions, one that maintains as much compatibility with the terrestrial network as possible especially the Internet. The challenges in this regard for transfer of science data lie in areas such as routing, transport layer and mu ltiple access. Some of these are harder as space is inherently a very challenging environment for communications as outlined below [1 requiring adjustments to be made for most existing standard communications to be applicable to space \226 1\rge network dimension and long delay 2\B it Error Rate \(BER 3\ursty errors \(space-to-ground 4\Limited energy resources available on spacecrafts 5\Intermittent, or sometimes periodic, connectivity 6\Existence of unidirectional links Keeping in mind the above limitations and increasing number of concurrent missions in space, there is a need for enhancing medium access cont rol \(MAC\ols to efficiently utilize the channel bandwidth in a dynamic environment. For transfer of science data from one node to another in space, there is also a need for flexible routing protocols that take into acco unt the long propagation delay as well as the high mobility of nodes in a space network that prevent traditional table driven routing protocols to perform   E n ergy efficiency  is another aspect that needs attention while devising such protocols and is usually a cross-layer issue. It not only ensures an increased amount of science data download to the ground when the battery is not charging fast enough and data traffic is heavy, but also helps in the reduction of battery size and other necessary components for recharging the battery [1 The r e are a number of routing algorithms th at are energy aware, of which the clustering algorithms have been referred to frequently as a good solution in networks with a high node density. In order to fully optimize the energy consumption it may be required to resort to cross-layer optimization techniques enabled by deploying a cognitive engine driven by user defined objective functions for optimization coupled with spectrum sensing information This can be applied to Earth Science constellation missions that can consist of different types of constellations such as the Tandem Synthetic Aperture Radar consisting of 2 to 5 spacecrafts, 30 to 100 homogeneous or heterogeneous spacecrafts such as Leonardo or a Sensor Web consisting of thousands of small sensors in a variety of orbits. To ensure fast dissemination of real-time science data in such missions, seamless information flow between ground and space elements as well as dy namically reconfigurable connectivity needs to be maintained. This necessitates intelligent routing service to transmit data through a sequence of intermediate space or ground switching stations or processing nodes, as the source and destination cannot be directly connected [1  I n  or d e r t o  devi se a p pr o p ri at e r out i n g  mechanisms, it is essentially to recognize usable routes which require the following points to hold good for every transceiver pair a  h e receiver is i n line of sight of t h e  transmitter; \(b\a ngle is greater or equal to the required minimum value for a space-to-ground and groundto space link, and \(c\ SN R of the received signal which is a function of free space propagation loss atmospheric and rain loss, polarization loss implementation loss, transmission data rate, distance between transmitter and receiver, transmission data rate, receiver antenna gain and Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power \(EIRP\ of the transmitter\ove the threshold. The optimization of data download from space and thus in creasing the science return using a good routing algorithm presents interesting tradeoffs in terms of access time to ground, access to TDRS Tracking and Data Relay Satellite\d onboard storage which have to be considered during mission design While the above discussion dealt with the challenges faced in establishing the link between source and destination nodes in a space network, it is worthwhile to consider the requirements of setting up the internal memory and file system on the main processo r onboard the spacecraft for prioritized download of various types of science data. An example of one such system is the MESSENGER ME cury S urface S pace EN vironment GE ochem i stry, and R anging mission to study planet Mercury as illustrated in [2 ng  to the fact that this is a deep space mission wherein large round-trip travel times would be incurred with severe downlink constraints, it is essential to adopt a file based secondary storage mechanism for science data. The file system enabled prioritization of mission data collected from various sensors onboard. An FTP \(File Transfer Protocol based protocol is required to download the data from space to ground autonomously. This type of mission data management would be the required in most science operations related to deep space missions. Not only is it required to dynamically establish the downlink path from the spacecraft to ground station but it is also required to setup an appropriate data st orage mechanism for efficient download of acquired mission data 


  3  Spectrum Allocation and Dy namic Spectrum Access NASA users are provided w ith a choice of two bands wherein one band is used for telemetry, tracking and control TT&C\ and low data rate operational data while the other is used for high rate mission data. These communication operations utilize Space Research Service \(SRS\and Inter Satellite Service \(ISS\bands having a primary International Telecommunications Union \(ITU\and US national service allocation useful to NASA. However, for future space missions, spectrum expansion in these bands would be required to accommodate for increased amounts of data acquisition and transfer. Nonetheless, allocation of new bands takes a long time to be approved by ITU and hence the optimum usage of existi ng allocated spectrum for all future missions is important. Currently, spectrum bands below 10 GHz which have robust propagation characteristics have insufficient bandwidth to satisfy high data rate mission requirements. On the other hand frequency bands above 10 GHz have wider bandwidths but are subjected to greater fading while passing through the Earth\222s atmosphere. Such scenarios necessitate the need for DSA as well as dynamic resource \(memory and power allocation to plan data storag e and transfer. For DSA, the relay elements could scan S, X and Ka bands to decide which frequencies could be used for data transmission based on availability and interference levels present in the communication link. For d eep space missions, this interference may be primarily in the form of cosmic scintillations while closer to Ea rth, interference may occur due to the presence of commerc ial mobile services. A brief summary of the current sp ectrum allocation for NASA space missions is captured in Table 1 Mission Specific Resource Allocation and Data Rate Requirements \(Scenario 1 A case study based on Magnetospheric Multiscale \(MMS Mission illustrated in [4 bstan tiates th e n eed fo r resource allocation mechanisms. The science applications that execute in this system are subjected to run-time variations that cannot be accurately characterized a priori. These applications normally operate in three modes namely, slow survey, fast survey and burst mode. The slow survey mode is entered outside the regions of scientific interest and results in minimum data acquisition. The fast survey mode is entered when the spacecraft s are within one or more regions of interest. If any plasma activity is detected while in this mode, the application enters the burst mode resulting in data acquisition at the highest rates. Accordingly memory and power consumption can be monitored and resource reallocation can be executed Mission Specific Resource Allocation and Data Rate Requirements \(Scenario 2 Currently, for Mars missions the data rates are of the order of 5.2 Mbps. In the future this may increase with more number of instruments similar to those flying on earth science missions being deployed for Mars missi I n  the case of limited spectrum ba nds being allocated for such Mars missions, DSA could prove to be a useful technique in enabling high speed transfer of science data Mission Specific Resource Allocation and Data Rate Requirements \(Scenario 3 The download data rates fo r the \223Far Infrared and Submillimeter Interferometer in Space\224 mission requires the development of a SDR based autonomous system that would be able to perform massive data handling which includes onboard storage and transmission 3  A RCHITECTURE  From the above discussion of the science requirements, it can be summarized that high speed transfer of mission data and intelligent onboard signal processing can be accomplished in the following ways  a\ Optimization of onboard resources \(memory and power which involves dynamic resource management   Table 1  Candidate NASA space mission bands for application of DSA  Frequency Science System s operating in various bands 2110\2262120 MHz 2290\2262300 MHz Unified S-Band Emergency communications and unique science applications on a constrained basis This deep space portion is subjected to restrictions due to interference with commercial mobile service in Madrid, Spain  7190\2267235 MHz 8450\2268500 MHz Near Earth Space Research Service X Band Near Earth science missions are conducted in this band The higher band is limited to an \223essential bandwidth\224 usage of 4 MHz per mission, as per the agreement within SFCG  \(Space Frequency Coordination Group\, which in turn affects the achievable modulation rates 13.75\226 13.8 GHz 14.9\226 15.15 GHz TDRSS \(Tracking and Data Relay Satellite Systems operating near Earth satellites, Fixed Satellite Services \(FSS\ and Radiolocation. Space Research Service SRS\y Bandwidth is inadequate for future usage and hence these services may have to migrate to Ka bands  22.55 \226 23.55 GHz 25.5 \226 27 GHz These near Ka bands are currently being used for DRS \(Data Relay Satellite\ mission data services 


  4   Figure 1- Proposed Design of Onboard Cognition b\timal utilization of communication bandwidth to accommodate data transfer to ground stations, which primarily involves DSA  Proposed System Architecture The proposed cognitive radio architecture is illustrated in figure 1. It consists of the following major modules: \(a b\ice Management Layer SML\, \(c\ STRS Application and Infrastructure setup, and d\ase. While the CE addresses what action is required to meet a given objective function, the SML establishes how the action can be executed by routing the most appropriate servi ce to the application Cognitive Engine The various modes of operation of the cognitive engine namely, monitoring, reasoning and learning modes are illustrated in figure 2. The three modes are collectively required for DSA involving spectrum sensing and signal classification, resource allocation involving memory and power optimization, and dynamic control of the data acquisition activity. The following three states are continuously monitored Channel State The channel state that influences high speed data transfer is characteri zed by the Doppler profile spectrum usage and the channel noise properties. Doppler uncertainties are modeled for th e purpose of deciphering the actual frequency of operation and the associated timing parameters which are essential for reconfiguring the system The noise associated with the space radio channel includes random cosmic disturbances. Fading is either due to multipath interference or solar scintillations caused by a small Sun-Earth-probe angle Radio State In order to perform any onboard resource management, it is essential to incorporate self-awareness which encapsulates the state of current onboard resources such as memory \(both long term and short term\r and temperature \(measure of heat dissipation Data Acquisition State This is probably the most critical state that requires constant monitoring to regulate the data transfer rate. With more than one science application running simultaneously onboard, it would be required to associate the acquired mission data rates with the respective application. The mode of data acquisition can be changed in accordance with the mission plan and the region of interest  


  5  Figure 2 - \(i\gnitive Radio modes and \(ii Monitoring mode of Cognition in detail The reasoning and learning mechanisms required for cognition are illustrated in figure 3 and briefly summarized below Reasoning mode Reasoning involves the immediate decision making process that l eads to a choice of action or actions based on knowledge abou t the current state of the radio and its environment. Reasoning could include \(a optimization algorithms that focus on finding the best solution to a carefully devised optimization problem, \(b meta-heuristic algorithms which are black-box procedures for solving computationally cryptic problems and \(c\neural networks. In the absence of a priori knowledge, it may be required to resort to metaheuristic approaches such as tabu search, genetic algorithms or scatter search Learning mode Learning can be conceived to be a long term process of accumulating knowledge based on the perceived results of past actions. It enriches the cognitive engine\222s knowledge base in or der to improve the efficacy of future reasoning [7 M o st o f the learning mechanisms are closely related with reasoning methods [10 For i n st ance   Qlearning is associated w ith distributed constraint optimization reasoning, meta-heuristic learning for Bayesian networks and case-based learning for parallel meta-heuristic reasoning A preliminary investigation on various machine learning techniques has been executed at Virginia s  would be useful in particular while performing the benchmarking of various tool s for space applications which have similar channel characteristics as commercial wireless applications. Results from characterization of various learning techniques re veal the following a A combination of knowledge based and case-based learning would help in tackling new and unforeseen situations in addition to improving accuracy, generalization and efficiency of learning process b Search based learning which is an inductive learning is best suited for metric based optimization requirements such as physical layer adaptations, user customization and signal detection and classification c Hidden Markov Models \(HMMs\ exhibit promising results in case of signal classification at low Signal-to-Noise Ratios \(SNRs\his method could be useful for signals in space which undergo attenuation after traversing astronomical distances d Artificial Neural Networks \(ANNs\ provide flexible and scalable functionality in classification problems for controlling actions, decision making and modeling. These techniques along with a few others indicated in figure 3 can be simulated and analyzed for di fferent space applications based on SNR and amount of uncertainty Spectrum sensing and management \226 The proposed cognitive radio design with DSA will be capable of detecting the presence of incumbent users such as mobile users for satellite based relaying. Spectrum sensing can be realized using transmitter detection or interference-based detection. In the absence of any information about the source of transmission, energy detection or cyclostationary feature detection would be better suited in comparison with matched filter detection [9 of th ese sen s ing procedures could be availed as a service in conjunction with the cognitive engine. These routines can be plugged into the software radio infrastructure through the service management layer 


  6  Figure 3 - Reasoning and Learning modes  Service Management Layer The cognitive engine generates the necessary actions for optimizing the objective function using learning and reasoning mechanisms. These actions are input to the service management layer which is detailed in figure 4 Based on the input actions, this layer handles porting of the appropriate service from th e repository to the STRS infrastructure. These services encompass specific tasks such as memory management and power consumption optimization. The repository would contain solutions from third party vendors who may provide different approaches to solving the same objective. Since a single mission may be managed by multiple organizations in partnership with NASA, it would be essential to address interoperability of services provided by multiple vendors. The database would have to be continuously updated with the services that are added to the repository. These specialized routines in turn may be broken down into various modules necessitating the intervention of the management layer to control message passing amongst the various services. The action-service mapping in the database may be a one-to-many mapping in which case a number of routines may have to be invoked in order to completely execute the necessary action for optimization and configuration of the STRS waveform. The decision making step of the service management layer can be implemented using a simple case-based-reasoning logic in order to map the action with the right service or set of services. In the event that the cognitive engine should decide on a sequence of actions for realizing the desired objective, the service management layer would be required to prioritize these actions before plugging them into the application. In order to implement this service oriented design, a middleware such as Object Request Broker Architecture \(CORBA\be considered. The middleware would primarily leverage the classical publish-subscribe design pattern to handle dynamic loading of services as per request from the application 4  S YSTEM M ODELING AND A NALYSIS  Design of an Executable Specification using Simulink The state-of-the-art in SDR so lutions presumes an objectoriented inheritance model of core data types which represents software architectures meant to achieve particular goals. The design and role of the architecture may appear arbitrary [11 to th e ap p l icatio n d e velo p e r withou t a reference implementation that demonstrates the various usecases of the architecture, m eant to highlight particular design choices. It is our in tention to create a software architecture founded upon clear goals and clear design choices by exploring the design space within the popular MATLAB/Simulink environment. In this way, we can simulate and generate our design as a form of executable specification By executable specification, we mean a model-based design that can be simulated, tested, validated, and synthesized as one cohesive unit. There exist many formalized tools and languages o mmercial and acade m ic, to provi d e an environment for modeling and simulation of many different applications. However, Simulink, coupled with the 


  7  Figure 4 - Service Management Layer Real Time Workshop \(RTW\oolbox and Stateflow modeling, along with the vast library of toolboxes, provides synthesis capable of targeting a variety of common platforms. It is this synthesis capability that makes Simulink a preferable modeling environment Our initial Simulink model as seen in figure 5 is a direct mapping of the aforementioned architecture. We assume a power spectral density signal capture and a simple objective function as input to the model. The signal capture is input to the CE::Monitor mode and the objective function is input to the CE::Reasoning and CE::Learning modes. Within the CE::Monitor, we simulate the RadioState::Power and RadioState::Temperature as uniform random oscillations while RadioState::Memory is held at a constant value. The ChannelState::Noise and ChannelState::SpectrumUsage are computed from the spectru m signal capture, while ChannelState::Doppler is considered a null value until we can create an appropriate model of it. The Data Acquisition State pulls its values directly from the database. The database will exist as a simple spreadsheet, for the moment In the future, we will explor e the tradeoffs between SQL RDBMS or other logging systems, such as XML definitions The CE::Reasoning and CE::Learning modes are left open for exploration, as well as the Service Management Layer Our exploration begins with Hidden Markov Models HMM\ as a mode of reasoning but we intend to expand to support common evolutionary algorithms, such as neural networks or genetic algorithms. The SML will require the most amount of work because it is here that we define the resulting action, or set of actions, that the system must take given the result of the CE::Reasoning mode. The SML will map actions to reasoning and learning. The input to the subsystem in the form of an objective function can be chosen in a number of ways and the rationale for this is explained in the following subsection Understanding atmospheric effects on communication between space elements  Development of appropriate channel models would help establish the most appropriate method for optimization of the various parameters across the protocol stack. With the different space elements located at varying distances from the user terminal on earth, the losses and distortion are based on the propagation path of the signal Meteorological data and space weather studies can be very useful in developing models for predicting the average loss and delay effects [1 T h e s e m odel s can be use d as a baseline and improvised in real-time to accommodate for the finer aspects of the dynamic changes in interfering effects through the use of cognition. The transfer function of the channel based on the frequency selective atmospheric absorption within the troposphere can be illustrated using concepts in [19  H\(f\ = H 0 exp [j0.02096f\(10 6 N\L where f i s in gigahertz\(GHz L is the distance travelled by the signal in km and N is the complex reflectivity in parts per million Again, N constitutes three components as given in   N = N 0 D\(f\ + jN 2 f ppm where N 0 is the frequency dependent refractivity D\(f is the refractive dispersion and N 2 f is the frequency absorption Combining the two equations yields an attenuation factor 0.1820fN 2 dB/km constituting the real part of the expression and a propagation delay 0.02096f\(N 0 D radians/km  


  8 Figure 5\226 Cognitive Engine Sub-System in Simulink  constituting the imaginary part of the transfer function [1 The actual procedure for calcula ting the values can be very rigorous involving variables such as pressure, temperature and relative humidity.  In general, the results indicate that the tropospheric attenuation increases gradually on a logarithmic scale as the frequency increases with peaks at the oxygen and water vapor absorption bands Rainfall has a significant impact on high frequency waves causing attenuation and depolarization of the microwave signals. The latter refers to l eakage or coupling of energy from one polarization into the orthogonal polarization of the signal [17 which cou l d  result in cro ss tal k Th e statistics  that include rainfall intensity, specific attenuation, and attenuation along a path is complex and are usually obtained empirically using distributions specific to the number, type and intensity of rainstorms in a particular region [1 Attenuation due to rain is also dependent on frequency angle of elevation of the ground antenna and bandwidth of the signal. For small bandwidths, the rainfall attenuation term can be added to the total loss in the channel model while for larger signal bandwidths, the attenuation varies and necessitates the inclusion of a transfer function with an amplitude response that varies linearly on a log scale and a phase that is linear   In the presence of atmospheric reflections and refractions the signal from space elements may travel different paths before it reaches the ground station. This multipath propagation along with fading could consist of a large scale slow varying component and a small scale fast varying component.  Most of the radio waves with a frequency less than 30 MHz get reflected on the ionosphere while higher frequencies pass through the ionosphere albeit with attenuation and phase changes that is dependent on the  he phase distortion induced by ionosphere consisting of a combination of ionized gas, ions and electrons is usually slow varying and time invariant in nature. However, the effect of scintillations which is referred to the channel time variations resulting from the physical changes in the medium of propagation can be quite profound as they tend to induce sudden variations in the density of the ions that affect the transmission of radio waves [17  Wh ile m ag n etic sto r m s can cause irreg u l arities that lead to interference and absorption, the unpredictable perturbations in the auroral region can result in a significant rise in atmospheric temperature  that can impede communication at all latitudes   The magnetosphere that is referenced to the atmosphere beyond an altitude of 600 kilometers above Earth is bounded by the complex interaction of the Earth\222s magnetic field and the solar wind [16 Th is can ex tend to sev e ral terrestrial radii and can considerably influence the propagation characteristics of radio waves. The complexity arises from the fact that th e charged particles constantly emanated from the sun underg o a charge variation under influence of geomagnetic field causing the environment to exhibit electromagnetic character istics as well. Due to the sporadic nature of both ionospheric and magnetospheric events, it would be essential to develop simple models that can be used for accurate prediction of the impact on telecommunication parameters when they occur  The various layers of the atmosphere characterized by dynamic conditions can result in different channel states that determine the onboard transmission parameters such as the amount of signal power required to maintain a good signal to noise ratio and a low bit error rate to combat the frequency dependent and time varying nature of propagation delay and attenuation. In other words, the physical layer parameters such as the modulation and channel coding schemes depend on the channel statistics and this affects the state of operation, performance metrics such as throughput and latency, and allocation of resources such as power and channel bandwidth   


  9 Waveform level considerations  While considering the application of cognition for learning and decision making to adapt and optimize the performance of the radio platform based on the predicted channel states it is essential to consider and analyze the competing radio resources. A detailed analysis of the important parameters that constitute this multi-objective resource optimization in software defined radio based cognitive engine is presented in [15 An exa m p le in vo lv ing  b it erro r rate as an obj ective is discussed here with regard to the potential tradeoffs it leads to Bit Error Rate is one of the leading indicators in assessing the end-to-end performance of the entire communication system including the transmitter channel and receiver. It is inherently dependent on the signal to noise ratio \(SNR E b N 0 which is the ratio of energy per bit to  noise power spectral density  which in turn depends on the type of modulation scheme and channel characteristics Theoretically it can be evaluated using probability of error P which is calculated using Q function or complimentary error function erfc The presence of E b N 0 suggests that the value of BER can be controlled by a number of factors  For example, BER can be reduc ed with increase in power per bit but the amount of transmission power is limited by the overall power available onboard from batteries and energy harvesting techniques such as solar panels. Increase in transmission power is also limited by the underlying hardware characteristics such as the power amplifiers and computing elements. Moreover, the finite amount of power needs to be allocated for various other tasks such as onboard processing and housekeeping activities which limits the power available for transmission. In some sense, power as a resource is invaluable and in itself requires appropriate management at any given time. One solution to accommodate low power availability would be to use lower order modulation schemes. However, this would affect data throughput which also requires careful handling and is dependent on a number of other factors such as buffer size and memory availability On the other hand, the noise in E b N 0 can be reduced in order to improve the BER value One way of achieving this is by reducing the system bandwidth which however, reduces the data throughput It can be seen that an improvement in a single waveform level parameter such as BER comes at a cost which requires careful real time analysis and address the challenges in space based communication as illustrated earlier. While this represents one objective, the inclusion of other primary resource objectives such as ba ndwidth and power can lead to a very complex problem that can involve the use of both accurate prediction models in association with optimization tools to form a more complete cognitive radio system Cross-layer considerations In the previous discussion, the inputs and outputs to the channel were represented as waveforms which were subjected to stochastic variations of the channel before being demodulated at the receiver  B y charact e r i z i n g  the channel by a smaller set of parameters, the waveform channel can be abstracted to a di screte channel. This type of modeling helps in addressing performance related to higher layers in the protocol stack that depend on the overall stochastic characteristic of the physical layer waveform without elaborating the details. This however leads to enumeration of a number of discrete states that represents the possible channel conditions the communication system can encounter with a state transition probability directly mapped to the channel or weather statistics. Such a model can be updated in real time using case based learning to improve the accuracy of predic ting the next channel state Hidden Markov Models \(HMMs\ cognitive engines can prove to be a very useful reasoning tool due to its inherent pattern recognition property as illustrated in [14 In t h is regard,  the Gilbert channel model for determining number of round trip transmissions \(spu rts\quired to successfully transfer a file  in Ka band between Mars and Earth has been illustrated in [18 in  relatio n to CCSDS \(C o n s u ltativ e Committee for Space Data System s\ol CFDP\e latency here is determined to be proportional to number of spurts which is a direct result of the transition probabilities 5  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This paper discussed some of the challenges in space based communications and established an understanding of the bursty communication link between the different space elements and ground station. Knowledge and continuous two-way monitoring between the space element and ground receiver can help upgrade the existing communication system architecture to a more robust one The onboard communication radio needs to be adaptive in nature in the sense that the transmission parameters require accommodating for the random natu re of the channel. At the same time, the various influencing parameters exhibit tradeoffs that require careful analysis in real time, in order to ensure that improvement in one direction does not drastically affect performance related to another aspect of the radio. However, just being adaptive may not necessarily address such cross layer effects as improving the quality of service in any sense is not just relegated to tweaking the parameters in a single layer. It is often a multi-objective optimization problem that warrants the application of machine learning tools to re ach a solution that would be close to the hypothetical optimal solution. Intensive research in the recent past has demons trated that evolutionary algorithms such as genetic algorithms in conjunction with case based reasoning can yield good results. In this regard the use of cognition which primarily encompasses the OODA observe, orient, decide and act oop, can be very effective in discovering the right combination of frequency and time dependent communication parameters for operation in highly constrained environments  While the paper described some of the key aspects of the cognitive 


  10 radio architecture, there is still scope for developing more in depth mathematical models to substantiate the behavior of the architecture Currently, autonomous radio such as the Electra Radio  factors in many of the parameters in the physical layer to deliver better quality of service in space based communication  A d d i ng a n ext ra di m e nsi on of intelligence/cognition to the radio can ensure that the system is not only autonomous but also establishes a slow learning mechanism that can furthe r reduce human intervention while improving performance. In some ways, cognition that is accompanied by a slow learning and reasoning process could be viewed as an enhancement to autonomy. The implementation of software defined radios \(SDRs\ for space communications has enabled deployment of mission independent reconfigurable radio platforms onboard space elements. This essentially helps in dynamic loading of new functionality associated with specific missions on the same hardware platform without in curring overhead cost. So a cognitive radio framework needs to cater to the existing complexity of problem and also interface with the SDR specifications. A method of obtaining an executable specification of the cognitive radio architecture with simple interfaces to a software defi ned radio was illustrated. The system model in Simulink will ultimately be auto-generated to a particular language, which will motivate the hierarchical design of object-ori ented software architecture The model and code generation will serve as a basic workflow, enabling the design and development of adaptive or cognitive techniques that can be generated, or synthesized, to fit within a higher layer of abstraction. This will allow us to identify properties of the model that are static or dynamic and further refine our hierarchical software architecture. In this way, we can clearly rationalize architectural design choices th at are driven by a modelbased design R EFERENCES    M i chael Hadji t h eodosi ou, Yi ngy ong C h en 223Communication support for future earth science space mission,\224 Computer Networks, 2004   C h ri st opher J Krupi arz, et al  223Fil e-based dat a processi ng on MESSENGER,\224Acta Astronautica, 2006  Space Co mmunication Archite cture W o rking Group SCAWG NASA Space Communication and Navigation Architecture Recommendations for 2005-2030 15 May 2006  N. Shankaran et. al Design and performance evaluation of an adaptive resource management framework for distributed real-time and embedded systems EURASIP Journal on Embedded Systems, Volume 8 , Issue 3 Article No. 9, January 2008   J.M Andri nga, R W East er, A.A. Gray E.S.Lam a ssoure G.S.Mungas,  \223Mars Human Precursor Mission Concepts for the Decade 2010 \226 2020,\224 IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2005  M a rc S. Allen NASA Space Science Vision Missions  Progress in Astronautics and Aeronautics, American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics, March 2008  et. a l  Applications of Machine Learning to Cognitive Radio Networks IEEE Wireless Communications Vol. 14, No. 4., 2007, pp. 47-52 8 d ert et.a l, Ap p l y i n g Artific ia l In t el lig en ce to th e Development of a Cognitive Radio Engine \223,MPRG Technical Report, \(Virginia Tech\y 31, 2006  Ian F Akyi ldi z et  al  NeXt generation/dynamic spectrum access/cognitive radio wireless networks: a survey Comput. Networks Vol. 50, No. 13. \(September 2006 pp. 2127-2159  D. H Fri e nd et al  Distributed Learning and Reasoning in Cognitive Networks: Methods and Design Decisions  Cognitive Networks \(Editor Qusay H. Mahmoud Wiley & Sons, Ltd, July 2007  Abow d G. D., Al l e n, R and Garl an, D. 1995 Formalizing style to understand descriptions of software architecture ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol 4, 4 \(Oct 1995\9-364  Guoqi ang W a n g  223Sy n chronous R eactive Communication: Generalization, Implementation, and Optimization\224, Masters Thesis, University of California Berkeley, December, 2008  R  K. C rane, \223Predi ct i o n of At t e nuati on by R a i n 224 IEEE  Transactions on Communications, Vol. 28, No. 9 September 1980, pp. 1717-1773  I. A. Akbar, \223St a ti st i cal analy s is of wi rel e ss sy st em s using Markov models,\224 Ph.D. dissertation,  Virginia Polytechnic Inst. and State Univ., Blacksburg, Jan. 2007 15 T W  Ron d eau 223Ap p licat io n o f artific i al in te ll ig en ce t o  wireless communications,\224 Ph. D. dissertation, Virginia Polytechnic Inst. and State Univ., Blacksburg, 2007  Lil e nsten, Jean, and Jean B o rnarel  Space Weather Environment and Societies Dordrecht: Springer, 2006  W Trant e r, K Shan m ugan, T R a ppaport, and K Kosbar  Principles of Communication Systems Simulation with Wireless Applications First. Prentice Hall Press, 2003 


  11  M a rc S. A l len Space Operations: Mission Management Technologies, and Current Applications Progress in Astronautics and Aeronautics, American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics, 2007  H.Li ebe, \223M odel i ng at tenuat i on and phase of rad i o  waves in air at frequenc ies below 1000GHz,\224 Radio Science, Vol 16, No 6, pp 1183-1198, 1981 2 J. Ham k i n s and M  K. Si m on, Eds Autonomous Software-Defined Radio Receivers for Deep Space Applications Hoboken NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc 2006 B IOGRAPHY  Sahana Raghunandan is currently pursuing her PhD degree in Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Wireless@VT. Her research interests include software defined radios resource allocation for wireless networks, and hardware and software design of radar systems. She completed her M.Sc studies in electrical engineering at The University of Kansas, Lawrence  Shereef Sayed is pursuing his M.Sc. in Computer Engineering under Dr. Jeff Reed at Wireless@VT. His research interests include models of computation coarse grained configurable computing machines, and embedded platforms. He is also one of the original developers of the OSSIE project and continues to assist in its development Tamal Bose received the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Southern Illinois University in 1988. After faculty positions at the Citadel and the University of Colorado, he joined Utah State University in 2000, where served as the Department Head and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering from 2003-2007 Currently, he is Professor of the Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engin eering at Virginia Tech. He is also the Associate Director of Wireless @ VT The research interests of Dr. Bose include adaptive filtering algorithms, nonlinear effects in digital filters, and multidimensional system theory. He is author of the text Digital Signal and Image Processing, John Wiley, 2004. He is also the author or co-author of over 100 technical papers Dr. Bose served as the Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing from 1992 to 1996. He is currently on the editorial board of the IEICE Transactions on Fundamentals of Electronics, Communications and Computer Sciences, Japan. He also served on the organizing committees of several international conferences Dr. Bose received the 2002 Researcher of the Year award from the College of Engineering at Utah State University and the 2002 Teacher of the Year award from the department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. He received the Researcher of the Year and Service Person of the Year awards at the University of Colorado at Denver He also received two Exemplar y Researcher awards from the Colorado Advanced Software Institute. He is an IEEE EAC program evaluator and a member of the DSP Technical Committee for the IEEE Circuits and Systems society Jeffrey H. Reed is the Willis G. Worcester Professor in the Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering From June 2000 to June 2002, Dr. Reed served as Director of the Mobile and Portable Radio Research Group MPRG He currently serves as Director of the newly formed umbrella wireless organization Wireless @ Virginia Tech Dr. Reed\222s area of expertise is in software radios, cognitive radio, wireless networks and communications signal processing. His book, Software Radio: A Modern Approach to Radio Design was published by Prentice Hall in May 2002. His latest book, An Introduction to Ultra Wideband Communication Systems was published by Prentice Hall in April 2005 Dr. Reed received the College of Engineering Award for Excellence in Research in 2001 In 2005, Dr. Reed became Fellow to the IEEE for contribu tions to software radio and communications signal processing and for leadership in engineering education   


                                Box 3.1. Basics of Survival Analysis  A comprehensive discussion of this topic in the context of PHM can be found in Ma and Krings \(2008a Survival analysis, also known as failure time analysis, has become a de facto standard for analyzing time-to-event data in biomedical research in the last two decades Survival analysis studies positive random variables for describing times to events in concern, also known as survival time, failure time, or simply time-to-event  Survivor Function and Hazard Function  Survivor function and hazard function are two of the most fundamental definitions in survival analysis. The survivor function S\(t time \(T is lt;&lt;?= ttTPtS 0   Note that S\(t function R\(t instantaneous rate of failure at T=t, conditional upon survival to time t.  It is defined as      lim  0 tS tf t tTttTtPt t  lt The above definitions are for univariate survival analysis; survival analysis has been extended to multivariate systems, or the multivariate survival analysis Hougaard 2000, Ma and Krings 2008c 3.7 and 3.8 for Multivariate Survival Analysis  Fundamental Model of Survival Analysis  


 Cox \(1972 most fundamental model in survival analysis. It is a semi-parametric model that correlates conditional survivor \(hazard vector \(z  Hazard Function ?\(t, z covariate vector z zetzt  0 where ?0 \(t function for continuous failure time T  Conditional Survival Functions \(on z   0   ztSztS where  t duutS 0 00 exp is the baseline survivor function  There are numerous extensions to Cox's model \(e.g Therneau and Grambsch 2000, Martinussen &amp; Scheike 2006 8                             UUUR, survival analysis, competing risks analysis, and multivariate survival analysis can be utilized to assess the effects of UUUR events. This forms the foundation of tactical level modeling in the three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008  3.2. Competing Risks Analysis  Competing risks analysis \(Box 3.2; Ma &amp; Krings 2008b for detailed discussion in the context of PHM and reliability subject of survival analysis. It has a history dating back to 1760 when Daniel Bernoulli studied the risks around the smallpox inoculation. However, modern competing risks analysis draw extensively on survival analysis, which was only initiated in late 1950s but the active research was not conducted until the1970s The application of competing risks analysis in reliability is quite earlier, the most famous model may be the Marshall-Olkin model 


earlier, the most famous model may be the Marshall-Olkin model 1967 controversies around the issues of identifiability, which shadows its value when multiple latent risks are dependent.  Three excellent monographs exist for competing risks analysis \(David &amp Moeschberger 1978, Crowder 2001, Pintilie 2006 perspective of survivability analysis, competing risks analysis can be used for analyzing the effects of unpredictable risks by treating the unpredictable events as censored or the effects of latent risks We use the term latent risks to refer to potential failure risks \(but only one of the risks ultimately causes the system failure survivability analysis; this usage of latent risks is totally consistent with the concept of latent risks in competing risks analysis, where these risks are modeled precisely  3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis                                                      Cont' Box 3.1  Another model that is of nearly comparable status with Cox model is the Accelerated Failure Time model 


Cox model is the Accelerated Failure Time model AFT e.g., Kalbfleisch &amp; Prentice 2002, Lawless 2003  Mean Residual Life \(MRL The mean residual life \(MRL lifetime for a sensor node of "age" t and is defined as   tTtTEtMRL &gt  It can be proved that the following equation holds Klein and Moeschberger 2003             tS dxxS tS dxxftT tMRL tt     where S\(t  Proportional Mean Residual Life Models exp  0 ztmztm T that m\(t|z the covariates, and m0\(t lifetime \(Oakes and Dasu 1990; Chen &amp; Cheng 2005 This model should be particularly useful for PHM Box 3.2. Basics of the Competing Risks Analysis \(CRA  In competing risks analysis \(CRA experiences multiple risks simultaneously, but it may fail from one of the risks only and fail only once. The risk that leads to the failure becomes the cause of the failure Therefore, risk is often used before the failure occurs and the cause is preserved for the afterwards \(Crowder 2001 failure is the defining characteristic of competing risks analysis. It also implies that the system is multivariate from the perspective of risks, but univariate from the perspective of the single failure time and single cause  There are two sets of formulations for CRA in the literature. The first is described with a pair of vectors of random variables the latent \(theoretical David and Moeschberger 1978 used below well as sub-survival functions \(Crowder 2001  There is one and only one cause in the set of k causes for each failure observed.  The elements of C are called risks before failures and causes afterwards. The risks compete for the cause. In reliability analysis, C might be faulty components in a series system and T is the breakdown time of the system; or C might be the failure modes, such as asymmetric vs. symmetric  The sub-distribution function is defined as   tTjCtjF equivalently, the sub-survivor function is defined as   tTjCtjS &gt Obviously jptjFtjS   where   jSjFjCp j represents the marginal distribution of C 


represents the marginal distribution of C  The sub-density function f\(j, t represented by  dttjdStjf The marginal survivor function and marginal density of T can be calculated with kj tjStS 1       1? ==?= kj tjfdttdStf The related conditional probabilities are Pr \(time t |cause j j, t Pr \(cause j | time t j, t t Pr\(time t | cause j caused by j, for example, the survival time distribution of cancer patients in a biomedical experiment. Similarly Pr\(cause j | time t specific age group 9 The latest advances in survival analysis have been centered on multivariate systems. Multivariate survival analysis has two major categories of models: one is multi-state modeling; the other is shared frailty modeling. Multi-state models, although formulated differently in both fields, have been extensively studied in reliability analysis in the context of Markov chain analysis. In contrast, shared frailty modeling seems little known in reliability analysis and PHM. To the best of my knowledge, there is only one reference in the form of monograph, i.e., by Hougaard 2000 analysis in the context of reliability and PHM can be found in Ma &amp; Krings \(2008c 2008d frailty and multi-state modeling, respectively. Given the complexity involved with multivariate survival analysis, any description of actual model is quite involved and hard to fit in a comment box. Box 3.3 only contains a few concepts  The previous univariate survival analysis and, to a lesser extent, the competing risks analysis have several significant limitations. The first limitation is the implicit assumption of single failure or single time-to-event transition. In Figure 2 multiple states and multiple transitions are the norm, rather than the exception. This is a multivariate survival system and multi-state modeling is obviously more appropriate than the univariate or competing risks analysis. Competing risks analysis can only address the multiple risks, but not multiple failures, which further can be dependent with each other. In more general terms, multiple failures with common-events modes represent the typical failure mechanisms in a multivariate system, but both univariate survival analysis and competing risks analysis can help little in modeling the dependences This constitutes the second limitation.  A third limitation is that not all covariates are observable, and some of the unobservable or unobserved may have critical influences on the 'survival' \(or transitions between states nodes. These unobservable covariate factors may create common-risks dependences, and the shared frailty model can capture these kinds of unobservable common-risks While the capability to capture the effects of unobserved or unobservable common-risks is critical for reliability modeling, its criticality to survivability modeling cannot be overemphasized because the quantitative study of this issue does not exist in the existing survivability research Therefore, shared frailty modeling is a critical tool for studying the influences of UUUR events in the tactical level modeling of survivability  Of course, the above limitations discussed equally apply to the traditional reliability theory because traditional reliability theory is based on the binary-state logic \(either failed or operational especially of computer networks, is often characterized by 


especially of computer networks, is often characterized by the multi-state performance degradations before reaching the complete failure. This multi-state nature of reliability has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and the most significant advances have been in the field of multistate reliability modeling \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003                                                 4. STRATEGIC MODELING AND DYNAMIC   Box 3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis  Dependence Mechanisms  Dependence is often the central focus of multivariate survival analysis, and together with censoring, they complicate survival analysis most significantly. Hougaard \(2000 three mechanisms of dependence: \(i ii iii Common events are equivalent to common mode failures in reliability analysis, for example, failure events due to accidents or natural disasters. The common risks mechanism describes the scenario that the individuals are dependent due to some common unobserved risks such as common genes in siblings or a bug in the operating system that may affect all software running on 


operating system that may affect all software running on it. The third mechanism, event-related mechanism refers to the phenomena that the actual event itself changes the risk, such as virus infection of a computer node Shared Frailty Modeling  Shared frailty theory occupies the central focus of multivariate survival analysis. The dominance is not accidental because frailty captures crucial but often directly unobservable \(latent random variables, which are attributable for dependence and variations. To some extent, dependence, variation randomness, and frailty all address some facets of multivariate failure events. The frailty theory provides a unique set of approaches to address the theoretical and practical issues related to those four concepts.  Similar to the fact that censoring is the trademark feature of survival analysis \(both univariate and multivariate frailty theory is the trademark of multivariate survival analysis. These two trademark properties, censoringhandling and frailty modeling, have made multivariate survival analysis a unique and indispensable mathematical tool for biomedical and public health research Multi-State Modeling  Multi-state has been developed concurrently in several fields in the last decade, including survival analysis \(Hougaard 2000 reliability \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003 Commenges 1999 Huzurbazar 2006 multi-state modeling has been adopted to solve the domain specific problems, and the flow graph modeling offers a flexible and powerful approach to analyze multi-state models in general. Multi-State model is often formulated as Markov Process models. The transition probabilities in multi-states modeling are well defined by survivor functions \(Hougaard 2000 multi-state model is to estimate the state transition probabilities from hazards functions. multivariate system. According to Lisnianski and Levitin's \(2003 any systems that can have a finite number of performance rates are multi-state systems. Furthermore a system may consists of components which themselves could be multi-state subsystems 10 4. STRATEGIC LEVEL MODELING AND DYNAMIC HYBRID FAULT MODELS  Hybrid fault models are derived from agreement algorithms Lynch 1997 redundancy management in fault tolerance.  Therefore, the choice of hybrid fault models directly affects reliability analysis and fault tolerance. Despite the close ties between reliability and fault tolerance fields, Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e Ma 2008a with regard to the quantitative relationship between reliability analysis and hybrid fault models. To address the unrealistic assumption, they proposed a new concept  dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF mathematical tools \(survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling we first briefly describe the issues involved and summarize some of their key findings in Box 4.1  Agreement algorithms started out with the introduction of the Byzantine general problem by Pease et al. \(1980 Lamport \(1982 system are abstracted as generals of an army.  Loyal generals \(non-faulty components algorithm e.g., to attack or retreat while traitors \(or bad components others by sending conflicting messages. Because the focus of agreement algorithms is to reach agreement in the presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the 


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


