html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Alpha Galois  Lattices Ve  ronique Ventos L.R.I., UMR-CNRS 8623, Universite  Paris-Sud, 91405 Orsay, France Henry Soldano L.I.P.N, UMR-CNRS 7030, Universite  Paris-Nord, 93430 Villetaneuse, France Thibaut Lamadon L.R.I., UMR-CNRS 8623, Universite  Paris-Sud, 91405 Orsay, France Abstract In many applications there is a need to represent a large number of data by clustering them in a hierarchy of classes Our basic representation is a Galois lattice, a structure that exhaustively represents the whole set of concepts that are distinguishable given the instance set and the representation language. What we propose here is a method to reduce the size of the lattice, and thus simplify our view of the data, while conserving its formal structure and exhaustivity. For that purpose we use a preliminary partition of the instance set, representing the association of a  type  to each instance. By redefining the notion of extent of a term in order to cope, to a certain degree \(denoted as partition, we define a particular family of Galois lattices denoted as Alpha Galois lattices. We also discuss the related implication rules defined as inclusion of such ?-extents 1 Introduction One way to cluster instances in classes organized in a hierarchy is to build a concept lattice [4], a structure in which each node corresponds to a class represented as its extent the set of the instances of the class the common properties of these instances expressed as a term of a given language sets of instances distinguishable when using the language Various techniques have been proposed to reduce the size of concept lattices by eliminating part of the nodes. In particular, frequent concept lattices [11, 10] represent the topmost part of a concept lattice, i.e. the nodes which extent cardinality exceeds a given threshold. In our approach, we reduce the number of nodes of the concept lattice by accounting in a flexible manner a prior partition of data. The partition is a set of basic classes which are clusters of instances sharing the same basic type. Basic classes are then used in order to add a local criterion of frequency to the notion of extent as follows: an instance i now belongs to the ?-extent of a term T of the language, when it belongs to ext\(T i.e. i has every T  s property and when at least ? % of the instances of the basic class of i also belong to ext\(T family of flexible concept lattices that we call Alpha Galois lattices. For instance, in an Alpha Galois lattice representing the C/net electronic catalog, with ?= 92, the  support  property will appear since in the HardDrives basic class 92 % instances were sold with support. Actually, this property is not frequent \(13 products out of 2274, i.e. 0.5 so would not apppear in a frequent concept lattice We show that the set of nodes of an Alpha Galois Lattices is a subset of the set of nodes of the corresponding concept lattice and that the values of ? define a total order on Alpha Galois lattices. Finally, the inclusion of ?-extents corresponds to particular implication rules, representing some kind of approximation of usual implication rules \(i.e. association rules with confidence 1 priori partition of the data. Such ?-implication rules can be extracted in the same way that ordinary implication \(and association The general framework of Galois lattices is given in section 2. In section 3, we present Alpha Galois lattices. Section 4 presents experimental results on the C/net data set and discuss the ability of such a representation to deal with exceptional data \(? near 0 or near 100 and conclusion are given in section 5 2 Preliminaries and definitions 


2 Preliminaries and definitions Detailed definitions, results and proofs regarding Galois connections and lattices may be found in [1], and, in the framework of Formal Concept Analysis in [4] . However we need for our purpose a more general presentation than Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE the one in [4] as our extents are different from those used in concept lattices Definition 1 \(Galois connection and Galois lattice m1: P ? Q and m2: Q ? P be maps between two lattices P,?P Q,?Q m1, m2 if for all p, p1, p2 in P and for all q, q1, q2 in Q C1- p1 ?P p2 ? m1\(p2 p1 C2- q1 ?Q q2 ? m2\(q2 q1 C3- p ?P m2\(m1\(p m2\(q Let G={ \(p,q Q such that p=m2\(q p p1,q1 p2,q2 G it will be denoted as G\(P,m1, Q,m2 E x a m p l e  1  T h e  t w o  o r d e r e d  s e t s  a r e   L     a n d   P  I       L is a language a term of which is a subset of a set of attributes A = {t1, t2, t3,a3,a4,a5,a6,a7,a8}. Here c1  c2 means that c1 is less specific than c2 \(e.g. {a3,a4    a 3  a 4  a 6     I  i s  a  s e t  o f  i n d i v i d u a l s     i 1  i 2  i 3  i 4  i 5  i6,i7,i8}. Let int and ext be two maps int: P\(I and ext: L ? P\(I e1 tributes common to all the individuals in e1 and ext\(c1 the subset of instances of I that belongs to the term c1, i.e the set of individuals which have all the attributes of c1 The example is represented in Figure 1 where each line is an individual and each column is an attribute. Together with L and P\(I have G={\(c,e I and are such that e=ext\(c e G Galois lattice denoted as a concept lattice Figure 1. Example 1. Tab\(i, j longs to the ith individual In concept lattices, a node \(c, e intent and e is the extent of the concept. A characteristic property of Galois lattices is that each node \(c, e of closed terms, so we have in particular int\(ext\(c and c is the greatest term whose extent is e = ext\(c intent c is a representative of the equivalence class of terms whose extent is e. We refer to the corresponding equivalence relation as ?L Example: In example 1, ext\({a4 int\({i1, i3, i4 fore a closed term as int\(ext\({a4 3 Alpha Galois lattices In this section we start with the concept lattice G\(L, ext,P\(I modify ext to obtain an equivalence relation  L coarser than the original one. This results in larger equivalence classes on L and therefore in less nodes in the corresponding Galois lattice The new ext function relies on the association of a predefined type to each individual of I . The corresponding clusters of instances are denoted as basic classes.The first idea is then to gather such clusters rather than individuals see [9 t1, t2, t3 express the types of the individuals of example 1 These types corresponds to three basic classes BC1, BC2 BC3 whose descriptions are the following: BC1={i1,i2 int\(BC1 BC2 BC3={i6,i7,i8}, int\(BC3 Let us consider the concept lattice built on a new set of individuals: {bc1,bc2,bc3} \(let us call them the prototypes of their respective basic classes int\(BCi bci 


int\(BCi bci in Figure 2 as a particular case of Alpha Galois lattice, and is much smaller than the original concept lattice \(6 vs19 nodes Now, by relaxing the constraint that enforces to consider only whole basic classes we define Alpha Galois lattices Definition 2 \(Alpha satisfaction  Let e={i1, . . . , in} be a set of individuals and T be a term of L. Then e ?? satisfies T \(e sat? T T We check now whether at least ? % of a basic class satisfies a term of L and add this constraint to isa, the membership relation between individuals and terms Definition 3 \(Alpha membership and Alpha extent BC be a partition of the set of individuals I as a set of basic classes. Let us denote as BCl\(i belongs i, and let T be a term of L, then i isa? T iff i isa T and BCl\(i The ?-extent of T in I w.r.t. BC is then ext?\(T Example. Let T={a6,a8}, ext\(T 2 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE sat60 T since | ext\(T and i5 isa60 T . We also have BC3 sat100 T , as 100 of BC3 belong to the extent of T , and so BC3 sat60 T So we have i6, i7, and i8 isa60 T and isa100 T . As a result, ext0\(T T T i3,i5,i6,i7,i8} and ext100\(T We now define the corresponding Alpha Galois lattices Proposition 1 \(Alpha Galois lattices P\(I i i Then, int and ext? define a Galois connection on L and E? and the corresponding Galois lattice G G\(L, ext?, E?, int When ? is equal to 0, E? = P\(I fore, G0 simply is is the corresponding concept lattice. The extents of the nodes of G100 are whole basic classes gathered and here the Alpha Galois lattice is the concept lattice obtained by considering as instances the prototypes of the basic classes \(Figure 2 Figure 3 presents the topmost part of G60. Note that intents of the nodes of G100 are also intents of nodes of G60 that in turn are all intents of nodes of the original concept lattice G0 Figure 2. The G100 Alpha Galois lattice of example 1 a6,a8}{i3,i5,i6,i7,i8 a6}{i1,i2, ... ,i8 t2,a6}{i3,i4,i5  t 3  a 3  a 6  a 8  i 6  i 7  i 8    t 2  a 4  a 6   i 3  i 4   a 3  a 6  i 1  i 2  i 6  i 7  i 8  Figure 3. ? = 60 : The topmost part of G60 of example 1 New nodes, w.r.t. G100 are the lighter ones In [3] the authors extend formal concept analysis to more sophisticated languages of terms and use the notion of projection as a way to obtain smaller lattices by reducing the language. [9] also introduces extensional projections that reduces the concept lattice by modifying the notion of extent. It is easy to show that there exists an extensional projection proj? such that E? = proj?\(P\(I ext?=proj? ? ext. Applying a theorem presented in [9 allows then to prove Proposition 1. By changing ext, an extensional projection changes a Galois lattice to a smaller one corresponding to larger equivalence classes on L An interesting case is the one of the partition {I} in which we consider only one basic class, i.e. the case in which all individuals share the same type. The corresponding Alpha Galois lattice is the topmost part of the concept lattice defined by the same language L and the same set I of individuals. The lattice then only contains nodes whose 


of individuals. The lattice then only contains nodes whose extents have a size greater than ?100 |I| \(plus the bottom node whose extent is empty investigated and is denoted as an Iceberg \(or frequent cept lattice [10, 11] where ?100 corresponds to the value of the support threshold minsupp 4 Experiments The program ALPHA that computes Alpha Galois lattices relies on a straightforward top-down procedure in which nodes are generated as follows: a current node intent c is specialized by adding a new attribute a, then int?ext? is applied to c?{a} in order to obtain a closed term; the corresponding node has then to be compared to previous nodes in order to avoid duplicates. We have experimented ALPHA on a real dataset composed of 2274 computer products extracted from the C/Net catalog. Each product is described using a subset of 234 attributes. There are 59 types of products and each product is labelled by one and only one type In our first experiment we have built G100 using the whole data set \(so practically restricted to 59 prototypical instances recomputed the corresponding G? lattice. As we can see hereunder the number of nodes \(and so the CPU time exponentially grows from 211 concepts to 107734 as varies from 100% to 92%. This means that it is here impossible to have a complete view of the data at the level of instances \(?=0 Alpha 100 98 96 94 92 Nodes 211 664 8198 44021 107734 We are first interested in what happens with high values of ?. Starting from G100, new nodes appear as slowly decreases. For instance at ? = 99%, a new node appears under the G100 node standing for the basic class Laptop. The intent of the new node now contains the attribute  network-card  This is due to the fact that most instances of the class Laptop do possess a network card. So by relaxing the basic class constraint we get rid of the few 3 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE exceptional, instances of Laptop found in the catalog and that were hiding this  default  property of Laptop in G100 So, by slowly decreasing ? from 100 % we have a more accurate view of our data by revealing properties that are relevant to at least some basic class A second experiment with 24 basic classes and 1187 objects \(some large basic classes are removed thus resulting in a more homogenous class size distribution the size of Alpha Galois lattices can be really different from the one of frequent lattices Alpha Values 100 80 50 30 0 Alpha Nodes 158 842 1493 1900 2202 Frequent Nodes 2 18 18 50 2202 Here as ? slowly grows from 0 to small values \(say 10 within their basic class w.r.t. some term t of L, will disappear from the corresponding ?-extent. These instances are exceptional as they belong to the extent of the term t whereas very few instances of the same basic class do belong to this extent. As a result some properties that are very unfrequent within some basic class will no more be allowed to discriminate concepts. For example, only few Laptops have the property  Digital-Signal-Protocol  and so when ? = 6% , nodes which intent contains the  Digital Signal Protocol  property no more include instances of Laptop in their extent. As a result terms including  DigitalSignal-Protocol  become equivalent whenever their extent only differed because of Laptop instances, thus resulting on a smaller \(and so simpler 5 Related work and conclusion Recent work in Knowledge Representation and Machine 


Recent work in Knowledge Representation and Machine Learning investigates Galois connections and lattices based on languages of terms more complex than those used in concept lattices, so modifying the notion of intent of a concept [4, 2, 6, 3]. We have shown here that by restricting the notion of extent of a term with respect to a a priori partition of the instance set I , we also modifies the lattice of extents which is no longer P\(I family of Galois lattices. As mentioned above Iceberg \(or frequent  lois lattices in which all individuals belong to the same basic class. Besides, the implication rules related to AlphaGalois lattices simply correspond to inclusion of ?-extents and a canonical basis of such ? ? implication rules can be extracted from the Alpha-Galois lattices in the same way as from frequent concept lattices \(the intents of the nodes are usually denoted as closed frequent itemsets. Association rules are then built using closed frequent itemsets [7, 12 Note that ?? implication rules inherit from the Galois lattice structure interesting properties \(as transitivity when dealing with  approximate  rules About construction of Alpha Galois lattices, it should be interesting to adapt efficient algorithms aimed at the construction of concept lattices \(e.g. [5 particular set theory view of a priori partitioned data referred to as rough sets theory \([8 rough sets expresses some indiscernibility between individuals of the same basic class, the rough sets view results in some degree of membership of i to an extent e, even if the individual i does not belong to e. At the contrary in the Alpha Galois lattice view, membership of i to an extent e is a prerequisite for ?-membership. A fortunate consequence of the latter view is the opportunity to construct Galois lattices As a conclusion there is still much work to experiment and to investigate theoretical issues and practical use of Alpha Galois lattices and corresponding ?-implication rules However we do believe that they represent a flexible tool to investigate data and handle exceptions that are relative to a preliminary view of the data Acknowledgments Many thanks to Nathalie Pernelle for its valuable contribution to the work presented here, and to Philippe Dague for its patient reading of an earlier draft of this paper References 1] G. Birkhoff. Lattice Theory. American Mathematical Society Colloquium Publications, Rhode Island, 1973 2] J. Ganascia. Tdis: an algebraic formalization. In Int. Joint Conf. on Art. Int., volume 2, pages 1008  1013, 1993 3] B. Ganter and S. O. Kuznetsov. Pattern structures and their projections. ICCS-01, LNCS, 2120:129  142, 2001 4] B. Ganter and R. Wille. Formal Concept Analysis: Logical Foundations. Springer Verlag., 1999 5] S. Kuznetsov and S. Obiedkov. Comparing performance of algorithms for generating concept lattices. J. of Experimental and Theoritical Art. Int., 2/3\(14  216, 2002 6] M. Liquiere and J. Sallantin. Structural machine learning with galois lattice and graphs. In ICML98, Morgan Kaufmann, 1998 7] N. Pasquier, Y. Bastide, R. Taouil, and L. Lakhal. Efficient mining of association rules using closed itemset lattices. Information Systems, 24\(1 8] Z. Pawlak. Rough sets, rough relations and rough functions Fundamenta Informaticae, 27\(2/3  108, 1996 9] N. Pernelle, M.-C. Rousset, H. Soldano, and V. Ventos Zoom: a nested galois lattices-based system for conceptual clustering. J. of Experimental and Theoretical Artificial Intelligence, 2/3\(14  187, 2002 10] G. Stumme, R. Taouil, Y. Bastide, N. Pasquier, and L. Lakhal. Computing iceberg concept lattices with titanic Data and Knowledge Engineering, 42\(2  222, 2002 11] K. Waiyamai and L. Lakhal. Knowledge discovery from very large databases using frequent concept lattices. In 11th Eur 


large databases using frequent concept lattices. In 11th Eur Conf. on Machine Learning, ECML  2000, pages 437  445 2000 12] M. J. Zaki. Generating non-redundant association rules Intl. Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and DataMining \(KDD 2000 4 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


may be interested in a particular rule, and to determine what interesting information or knowledge, not explicitly requested we could provide him, in addition to the proper answer Indeed. improving man-machine interaction by emulating a cooperative behavior has been proposed by some researchers through various techniques [23]. In [24], the author states requests .for datu can he clawified rotcgltlv into two kinds specific requests and gods. A .spec$c request e.stahli.rhes U rigid quul$cation, and is concerned only with data that mutchrs it precisely A goal, on the other hund, r9tahliske.s N furget yuufifkution and is concerned with datu which is close to the target". For Cuppens and Demolombe [25], "the basic idea is tiwt witen a person asks a question. he is not interested to know the answer+ju.st o increase his knowfedge, hit he hus the intention to realize some action. aizd the answer contains necesscity or z1s&amp; in&amp;wmcrtion to reulize riais action". In our context, when such additional knowledge is not supplied. this forces the user to retry a tedious rule exploration repeatedly until obtaining a satisfactory "matching In the prototype interface, c.f., Figure 3\(Up select items that can both appear in the preniise and/or the conclusion part. Once the minsup and minconf thresholds are fixed, the user can generate the desired rules. Both textual and graphical representation are provided. The user can fur ther filter specific rules from the generated ones. In the 3D histograms based visualization, c.f., Figure 3\(Down items are showed in red, whiie those of the conclusion are depicted in blue. The associated Confidence and support are represented by a scaled histogram For example, supposc that a user may bc interested in the rule RI. Then, when the user clicks on the label representing the R I  antecedent, the visualization interface provides in a displaying area all rules that are connected to RI. From the meta-rule MR1 depicted in Table IV, we can check that the following rules are connected to RI: R3 : e=+k \(conf.=l k+e \(conf.=O.X conf.=OA conf.=0.5 The aforementioned visualization prototype is currently un der implementation and we show in the following how its fea tures fulfill the Sclzneitlernzan's visual design guidelines [26 The author recommended the following tasks "Uven&amp;w ,firxt zoom und,fiLtec then detuils on demand". In fact, grasping a huge mount of rules can very often encourage user to pcrfomi a superficial exploration instead of a in-depth one. That's why, our visualization tool has to provide an overview of the derived association rules. which permits an overall knowledge direct access and interconnections within the knowledge space Once the user focused on a rule \(or a portion of rules smooth user-zooming capability should be performed. We try to implement to . f ish9v technique to perform such task, by keeping the context while zooming on the focused portion of knowledge. In addition to the complete description of the desired portion of rules \(i.e.. premise, conclusion and confidence the derivable rules that can be draw from such generic rule set We have also to mention the desired "reiute" task [26 highlighting useful relationships among knowledge. Therefore 231 FUZZ-IEEE 2004 Fig. 3 DOWN UP the system as described earlicr, thanks to its meta-rules base will display the set of connected rules V. CONCLUSION We presented in this paper an approach for providing a cooperative exploration of generic bases of association rules This additional knowiedge highlighting connected rules to a user-select rules permits an improvement of man-machine interaction. To do so. we constructed a set of fuzzy mcta-rules extracted from the discovered fuzzy closed itemsets 


extracted from the discovered fuzzy closed itemsets The visualization prototype is currently under implemen tation and in the near future. we plan to include also rec ommended visualization tasks, e.g., history and extract 1261 and to lead extensive experimental results to assess their satisfaction vs the user graphical interface R E  t  E R EN C ES I ]  R .  Agrawal and R. Skirant  Fast algorithms for niining association rules  in Proceedings cJ /  h e  20th Iiirernurionul Coi,n/?rence on I  er Large Datalwes, June 1004. pp. 478--499 1.21 H. Manilla H .  Toinoven. and 1. Verkiimo  Eflicient algorithms for dis covering association niles  in AAA I Murshop on Knowledge Discovrci in /latubuser, July 1994. pp. 181-192 3] R. Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri  A new sql-like operator for mining association rules  i n  Proceedings I$ rhe Vl.DR Coi!/ivence. 1996, pp 122--133 4] R. T. Ng, V. S. Lakshmanan. J. han, and A. Pang  Exploratory mining arid pntning optimimtions of constrained association rules  in Praceedings of  the SIGMUf 5]  R. Srikant, Q. Vu. and R. Agrawal  Mining association rules with item constraints  in Pwc. of  the 3rd Itttl. Confi?rence on Knowledge Discoivy in Dntabascs and Data Mining, A  ewport Beach, California 161 J. Han and Y. Fu  Discovery of multiple-level association tules from large databases  in Proceedings of  the I  LDB Cotzference. 1995, pp 42043 1 7] S. Brin. R. Motawni. and C. Silverstein  Beyon market baskets Generalizing association rules to correlation  in Proceedings qf  the SIG2WO/l, Tucson, Arizona \(LfS4 X]  Y. Rastide, N. Pasquier. R. Taouil. I.. 1,akhal. and Ci .  Stumme  Mining minimal non-rcdundant association ivles using frequent closed itemsets   in Proceedings o/ the Internationul Confi~rmce DOOD  2000. I.e\(:ture Nore.s in Coinputer Sciences. Springer-wrlulg july 2000. pp. 972 986 9 I B. Ganter and K. Willc, kbrnaal Concepr ,4ncdysis. Springer-Vcrlag IIeidelberg, 1999 IO] P. Buono, M. F. Costabile, and E A. Lisi  Supporting data analysis through visualizations  in Proceedings of  Fl  orkhop on &amp;urd Data Mining, Freibu~, Germuny. September 2001, pp. 67-78 I 11 M. Barhut and B. Monjardet. &amp;frt et clnssificczlion. AfgGhre er Coin hiriatoire. Hachette  Iome II, 1970 121 M. Luxenburger  Implication partiellcs dans un contexte   4lailiL;mutiques et Sciences Hirtnuines, vol. 29, no. 113, pp. 35 55, 1991 131 J. Guigues and V. Duquenne  Familles minimales d  iniplications infor matives rksultant d  un tableau de donnbes binaires  luthPmatiques ef Scimces Humuitzes, no. 95. pp. 5 18, 1986 I41 A. Jaoua, S. Ellouini, S. BenYahia, and F. Alvi  Galois connection in fuj.zy binary relations: applications fbr discovering association rules and decision making  J. Deshamais. M. Frappier, and W. Mccaul. Eds blethodos Publishcr. 2002 151 R. Relohlavek  Fuz-q Galois connections  luth. Logic. vol. 45. no. 4 161 S. Pol landt. I.~uzy-Rc~riJ2: f.brmale f Springer-verlag. 1997 11 71 R. Skirant and R. Agrawal Mining quantitative association rules in large relational tablcs  in I  roceedings of  ACXI SIGIWOD Intl Coi!f  lonreul, Conaciu. lune 1996, pp. I 12 I81 R. Agrawal, 1  Imieiinski, and A. Swami  Mining association rules bctwcen scts of itcnis in large databases  in Pmceedin,qs o f  r h e  ACM SIGAfOD Inil. Conference on illanagentsir of Datu, IV~7shingtort, USA June 1993. pp. 2077216 IO] K. C. C. Chan and W.-ff. ALL  Mining fuzzy association rules  in Pmc qf the Sixth Int  I Con/: on Information and kiruwledge Management CIKM  971.Las Vkg~~s, :Vemtiu. November 1997, pp. 209 21 5 20] G. Chen, Q. Wci. and E. Kcrre  Fuzzy Data Mining: Discovcry of Fuzzy Generalized Association Rules  in Recent Research lssuc-s on I.lnnugment o/  Ftrz:ine.ss in /laralmse.v. ser. Studies in Fuziness and Soft Computing, Uordagna and Pasi. Eds. Physica Verlag, kIeidelhcrg March 2000 121 J Q. Wei and G. Chen  Mining generalized &amp;.sociation rules with fwzy 


taxonomic structurcs  in Ymceedings e /  the Yorth America I  ic&lt Iflforniotion Piwessitig Sociep \(?&amp;IFIPSWj, .Vnv York, 1999, pp. 477 481 22] S. BenYahia and A. Jaoua  Discovering knowledge from fuzzy concept lattice  in Datu mining and Coniputationnl lnielligence. ser. Studies in Funiness and Soit Computing, Vol. 68. Physica Verlag, Heidelberg Illarch 2001. ch. 7. pp. I67 190 23] V. Frantz and J. Shapiro  Algorithms for automatic construction of query formulations in boolean form  iouritul et  the Anierican Sociep iir InJormalion Science, vol. I .  no. 42, pp. 16-26, 1991 24  A. Mom  Extcnding the relational Databases Model to support Goal queries  in Exper1 Dutuhase Systems. I,. Lerschberg, Ed. The Ben jamiit  mings Puhlishing Comp  any, 19x7. pp. 129-1 50 25] I:. Cuppcns and R. Uemolombe  tiow to recognize interesting topics to provide cooperative answering  infbrmation Sy.siems, vol. 14, no. 2 pp. 163 173. 1989 26] U. Shncidcniian  the eyes have it: A task by data type taxonomy for information visualimtion  in Proctvdings fEEE Symposium on fisual Lmguage.~, Boulder: Colorado. 1. C .  S. Press. Ed. 336-343. 1996 August 1997. pp. 67-73 pp. 197- 504. 1999 232 pre></body></html 


21 G r iff iths, M.D., Da v i e s  M.N.O., a nd Cha p p e ll, D  Breaking the Stereotype: The Case of Online Gaming  CyberPsychology & Behavior. January 1, 2003, Vol 6, No 1, pp. 81-91 22 Hu l l an d  J U se o f P a rtial L e a s t Sq u a res \(P L S  in   Strategic Management Research: A Review of Four Recent Studies. Strategic Management Journal, 20 \(4\, pp. 195204, 1999 23 J o ne s L a nd Fle t c h e r C  Self-assessment in a selection situation: An evaluation of different measurement approaches Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 2002, Vol. 75, pp. 145-161 24 K e im T  a nd W e itz e l  T  Strategies for Hiring IT Professionals: An Empirical Analysis of Employer and Job Seeker Behavior on the IT Labor market In: Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS\ulco, Mexico 25 L a um e r S Ec k h a r dt, A a nd W e itz e l T   Recruiting IT Professionals in a Virtual World In: Proceedings of the 12th Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems PACIS 2008\uzhou, China 2 L e e I   The Architecture for a Next-Generation Holistic E-Recruiting System Communications of the ACM, Vol. 50, No. 7, 81-85, 2007 27 L e v i ne E.L Flory  A   a nd A s h, R.A  Selfassessment in personnel selection Journal of Applied Psychology, 1977, Vol. 62, No. 4, pp. 428-435 28  Ma lho t ra Y., a n d G a lle tta D. F Extending the Technology Acceptance Model to Account for Social Influence Theoretical Bases and Empirical Validation  Proceedings of the 32 nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2 Lo u H Lu o  W  and St r ong D  2 00 0   Perceived Critical Mass Effect on Groupware Acceptance  European Journal of Information Systems 9\(2\p.91-103 30 N u nna lly J  C., a nd Be rns t e i n, I. H  Psychometric Theory 3rd ed.\ McGraw-Hill, New York, 1994 31 Phil lips  J.M  Effects of Realistic Job Previews on Multiple Organizational Outcomes: A Meta-Analysis  Academy of Management Journal, 1998, Vol. 41, No. 6 pp. 673-690 3  P o d s ako f f  P   M    M acKen zie S  B  L ee J Y  Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003\. Common Method Bias in Behavioral Research: A Critical Review of the Literature and Recommended Remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, Vol. 88, No. 5, pp. 879-903 33 Ri dg w a y  J Mc Cus k e r, S., a nd P e a d D   Literature Review of e-Assessment Nesta Future Lab, Bristol, UK 2004 3 Ry n e s S  L   Recru i t m en t   Job Choice, and Post-Hire Consequences in: M.D. Dunnette, and L.M. Hough \(eds Handbook of Industrial and Organizational Psychology Consulting Psychologists Press, Palo Alto, CA, 1991 35 Ste i nk ue hle r   C.A  Learning in massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the 6th international conference on Learning sciences, Santa Monica, California, 2004 36 U nde rw ood J  D  M Ba ny a r d P.E. a n d D a v i e s  M.N.O Students in digital worlds: Lost in Sin City or reaching Treasure Island BJEP Monograph Series II Number 5 - Learning through Digital Technologies Volume 1, Number 1, 1 July 2007 , pp. 83-99 36  Ve nk a t e s h V M o r r i s  M  G  un d A c k e r m a nn P  L   2000 A Longitudinal Field Investigation of Gender Differences in Individual Technology Adoption DecisionMaking Processes Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Vol. 83, Nr. 1, S. 33-60 3 W e i ss E  A    Self-Assessment Communications of the ACM, 1990, Vol. 33, No. 11, pp. 110-132 38 W a rd, M G r uppe n, L a n d Re g e hr, G  Measuring Self-assessment: Current State of the Art Advances in Health Sciences Education, 2002, Vol. 7, pp. 63-80 39 Y i n, R. K  20 03 s e Stu d y R e s e a r c h D e s i g n a nd Methods, Sage Publications, Inc., Thousand Oaks, London New Dehli Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


