html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">SECOND IEEE  INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS. JUNE 2004 Mining Multi-Cross-Level Fuzzy Weighted Association Rules Mehmet Kaya, Member, IEEE, and Reda Alhajj, Member, IEEE Abslract-This paper proposes a novel approach for mining fuzzy weighted multi-cross-level association rules by simply integrating the advantages of several concepts, including fuminess, cross-level mining, weighted mining and linguistic terms Cor minimum support, minimum confidence and item importance. Experimental results conducted on a synthetic database demonstrate the importance, effectiveness and applicability o f  the proposed approach I n d a  Terms--essociation rules, data mining, fuzziness linguistic terms, multi-cross-level rules, weighted rules I. INTRODUCTION Association rules mining determines the correlation between items belonging to a transaction database. In general, every association rule must satisfy two user specified constraints: support and confidence. The support of a rule x =, Y is defined as the fraction of transactions that contain XU Y , where X and Yare disjoint sets of items from the given database. The confidence is defined as the ratio s"ppo~\(~uuyl.  The target is to find all rules that satisfy user specified minimum support and confidence values Most of the early studies in the field concentrated on boolean association rules, which are concerned only with whether an item is present in a transaction or not, without considering quantity [I]. However, transaction data in real world applications usually contain quantitative values. So designing a data mining algorithm able to deal with quantitative data constitutes a challenge to researchers in the field, e.g., [2, 3, 41 Another trend to deal with the problem is based on fuzzy theory introduced by Zadeh [5], which provides excellent means to model the "fuzzy" boundaries of linguistic terms by introducing gradual membership. Instead of using sharp boundary intervals, fuzzy sets are used in discovering quantitative fuzzy association rules, which are easily understandable to humans [&amp;I 51 Most quantitative association rules mining algorithms focused on finding rules at a single conceptual level However, items with taxonomy structure are more commonly seen in real-world databases. Realizing this some approaches have been recently proposed for multi level association rules mining in a way to extract more specific and valuable information from databases. A pioneer work in this direction by Srikant and Agrawal [16 uses a single support threshold across all levels. However Han and Yu [I71 use different support thresholds for different levels of abstraction. In these two studies association rules confined to level-by-level relationships in a hierarchy are generated. Finally, Hoog et al [18, 191 proposed two different algorithms to find cross-level association rules. However, a single minimum suppon threshold is used at all levels SUPPofl\(X Mehmet Kaya is with Department of Cornpuler Engineering, Firat University, 231 19, Elazig. Turkey, \(email: kaya@firat.edu.tr Reda A1haj.i is wilh ADSA Lab, Depanmenl o f  Computer Science University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta Canada \(telephone: 403-210 9453, emil: alli;lu~cpsc.ocalgary 0-7803-8278- 11041$20.00 02004 lEEE 22s As one of the main targets of data mining is to provide guidance for decision making, it is essential to consider people intuition in the process. For instance, in a marketing business application, a manager may want to find the association rules with more emphasis on some itemsets and less emphasis on other itemsets. Simply, some itemsets may be more interesting for the company than others. To satisfy such cases, Cai et a1 [21] proposed weighted mining to reflect different importance in different attributes; a user 


to reflect different importance in different attributes; a user specified numerical weight is assigned to each attribute Weighted support and weighted confidence are defined to determine interesting association rules. Yue e/ a1 [20 extended these concepts to fuzzy item vectors., Finally Gyenesei [22] presented two different definitions of weighted support: with and without normalization. Also for the problem where a subset of a frequent itemset may not be frequent, which can occur in the normalized case, he introduced the concept of z-polential frequent subset for each candidate itemset In this paper, we contribute to the ongoing research on association rules mining by proposing a novel approach for multi-cross-level fuzzy weighted association rules mining which simply integrates the advantages of several concepts including fuzziness, cross-level mining, weighted mining and linguistic terms for minimum support, minimum confidence and item importance. Advantages, applicability and effectiveness of the proposed method are demonstrated by experiments conducted on a synthetic database The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section I1 includes an overview of multi-level association rules mining. Section I11 covers three basic concepts utilized by our approach, namely fuzzy item importance, fuzzy support and fuzzy confidence. Section IV presents fuzzy weighting of items across multiple cross levels. Section V includes the proposed multi-level fuzzy weighted association rules mining approach. Experimental results are presented in Section VI. Section VI1 is the conclusions 11. MULTI-CROSS-LEVEL. ASSOCIATION RULES MiNING For the process of mining multi-cross-level association rules, large itemsets should include nodes from more than one level. Figure 1 shows an example predefined hierarchy taken from the already published papers on multi-level rules mining [17, IS]. Only terminal nodes in the tree represent actual items appearing in transactions. Internal nodes represent classes or concepts formed by lower level nodes. For instance, the internal node milk is at the fist level \(Level 1 internal node chocolate is at the second-level \(Level 2 represents content; and finally terminal node dairyland is at the third-level \(Level 3 In this paper, we use Han and Fu's encoding scheme, as described in [17], to represent nodes in predefined taxonomies for mining multi-cross-level rules. Nodes are eocoded with respect to their positions in the hierarchy using sequences of numbers and the symbol "*". For example, Milk, Chocolate and Dairyland in Figure 1 are represented by 1 * *, 11 * and 11 1, respectively Fig. 1. An example taxonomy NWeiphlof Fig. 2. Membership functions representing weights of items Minim SUP Fig. 3. Membership functions representing minimum suppan As extracting large itemsets from multi-concept level is concerned, a progressive deepening method is used by extending the Apriori algorithm [23]. In other words, the method first finds large items at the top most level and then progressively deepens the mining process into their large descendants at lower concept levels. We apply different minimum support threshold at different, levels of abstraction. Thus, we reduce the minimum support threshold through the lower level nodes because using a single support threshold may lead to many less interesting rules extracted together with the highly interesting ones if the threshold is rather low. However, keeping the threshold high will significantly reduce the number of rules classified as interesting Since dealing with multi-cross-level mining requires large itemsets to include nodes from more than one level and since each level has different minimum support threshold, the computation of support thresholds of such 


threshold, the computation of support thresholds of such itemsets is more complex than those of non-cross-level itemsets. The support thresholds of cross-level itemsets are computed according to the following proposition Proposition 1: Let A \( A l , A z ,  ... A q definition, items in an itemset cannot be ancestors or descendants of each other. The support threshold of itemset A is: din[FMinSup\(A Aj fuzzy support value of the level where A, is present 1 4 111. FUZZY REPRESENTATION OF ITEM IMPORTANCE MINIMUM SUPPORT AND MINIMUM CONFIDENCE The importance of an item is not only a vital measure of interestingness, but also a way to permit users to control the mining results by taking specific actions. So, it is more natural and intuitive for humans to deal with linguistic terms than discrete values. In other words, it is more flexible anp more understandable for human beings to handle the measures showing the importance of an item as linguistic terms. Motivated by this, we represent weights of items using fuzzy sets Shown in Figure 2 are membership functions of the fuzzy sets used to represent the weight of a given item According to Figure 2, membership hnctions have uniform structure and the weight of an item can take 5 different linguistic terms We also used linguistic terms to express  minimum support and minimum confidence, based on the same justification raised above about utilizing linguistic terms for the importance of items. Shown in Figure 3 are the membership functions used for minimum support; note that also membership functions for minimum confidence have the same trend shown in Figure 3 IV. FUZZY WEIGHTING OF ITEMS AT MULTIPLE CONCEPT LEVELS For the approach proposed in this paper, we also realized the importance of assigning weights to items at multiple cross levels. Actually, the algorithms developed ear!ier to mine weighted association rules handle the single-concept level, i.e., only items appearing in transactions are weighted to find more specific knowledge. However, we argue that the need for specifying weight values may occur for classes or concepts at higher levels instead of actual items present in transactions. This is true because sometimes weighting internal nodes on a tree may be more meaninghl and enough, while another time it may be necessary to weight both an ancestor and descendant, As a result, we handle weighting at multiple levels based to the next proposition Proposition 2: Consider ni+l items, say x, and its descendants y,, y2, .... y,. While weighting nodes at multiple concept levels, three cases may be observed I .  If only x is weighted, then all its descendants get the same weight as x 2. If the weights of all descendants of x are prespecified then the weight of x is computed as where TotalCoun$, =cyy, , here ~ r o r a l c o u n t  IV&gt I ws = 1-1 ToralCounr n is the number oftransactions and vjV, is the amount of values from domain Di specified for descendant y 3. Ifthe weights ofx and ??I-1 of its descendants are given then the weight of descendant y ,  is computed with respect to the given weights as m TolalCounl,.W, -c W l w Y. TolalCounl Shown in Figure 4 is an example weighted taxonomy with 3-levels to illustrate how the proposed method weights relevant nodes. Weights of the nodes denoted by bold 


relevant nodes. Weights of the nodes denoted by bold letters are prespecified, and weights of the others are computed. For instance, the weight of A is given as IV descendants C and D of A get its weights \(Case I weights o f E  and F are prespecified as W, and WF, then the weight of B is determined as W, \(Case 2 weights of C and G are found as W, and W, , the weight of H i s  computed as W, \(Case 3 226 G FW, H'W Fig. 4. An example of weightedtaxonomic smcture V. THE PROPOSED MULTI-CROSS-LEVEL FUZZY WEIGHTED The basics idea of the proposed approach is combining the advantages of fuzziness, multi-level taxonomy and weighted mining in order to extract more specific multi cross level fuzzy weighted association rules. The algorithm developed for this purpose requires the following functions at different stages of the process Function Fin~ssociationRules  For each large witemset s with regions \(sI,s2, .... s w w 2 2 : Find weighted fuzzy association rules as follows ASSOCIATION RULES MINING APPROACH Form all possible association rules as s , ~  ... s j . , ~ s j i l . . . s w ~ s j , j = l t o w Compute the weighted confidence value FwConfn of each possible association rule R as and w, = w 4 If \( FWCorf8 2 FWMinConf interesting rules set IEndFor 11 EndFunction Function Fir~~eig/ztedSupport\(level number k  For each item 1; \(represents node j at level k The fuzzy weight of 1: is either given beforehand or computed according to Proposition 2 All these fuzzy weights are transformed into a fuzzy set of weights using item importance membership hnctions given in Figure 2 be the amount from 0, for the j-th group at level k, and for each encoded group name I: : transform the quantitative value V: into a fuzzy set f Let Compute the fuzzy weighted support FWS,,~;~ of each and 1; is the fuzzy membership value of v$ in region 1 For each region R;,: if \(FWSup~,~FFK44inSup is the fuzzy weighted set of the minimum support, then put R; in Lf , large I-itemsets at level k I EndFor I1 EndFunction Function CandidateSets\(leve1 number k 1. Generate candidate set C,* from the itemsets Lf ,G ... L to extract cross-level large itemsets. At least one region of each itemset in C: must be present in Lf and the other region may not be its ancestor in the taxonomy Also, two regions should not have the same item name All possible 2-itemsets are stored as C 2. For each newly formed candidate 2-itemset s with region s , , s  Find the weighted fuzzy set wf;, o f s  in each transaction datum 0, as; w/, = Min\(WI, .J Compute the fuzzy weighted support FWSup, of 2 j = l 2 w itemset s as; ~ m j , ~ ,  = L, where n is the number of transactions If FWSup, ZMi?!\(FrnjnSup the fuzzy weighted set of minimum support of the level where si is present, then puts  in I 


level where si is present, then puts  in I E  EndFunction Algorithm FuzzyWeightedAssociationRules Input: a set of n quantitative transaction data; four sets of membership functions: for item quantities, item importance, minimum support and minimum confidence, respectively; predefined taxonomy; a predefined set of linguistic minimum support threshold FFFMinStrp', which represents the fuzzy weighted set of minimum support at level k; and a predefined fuzzy minimum confidence threshold FWMinConf Output: a set of multi-cross-level fuzzy weighted association rules Steps 1. Encode the predefined taxonomy using a sequence of numbers and the symbol "*", by following the method proposed by Han and Fu as desceibed in [17   k  e is null  k n -2  1 # null 2. For k-1 to maximum nuniber of levels in taxonomy transaction datum 0 Generate candidate set c;+] from L: as in Apriori the only difference is that the different regions of the considered items must not have a hierarchical relationship in the taxonomy For each constructed \(r+l Find the weighted fuzzy set WAS ofs in each transaction datum Dj as; W/* = F \( W , ,  .f s13s2, ...A+ 1 l i l Compute the fuzzy weighted support ~mup I of itemset s as; FFKS!,~, = \(_I, where n is the number of transactions 2 wf 227 If Fmup, 2 Min\(FWMinSup EndFor r=r+ 1 Endmile e&gt  l/EndFor 3. Execute Find4ssociationRules TABLEI FIVE EXAMPLE TRANSACTIONS TID Items I 2 3 4 5 \(0, Q \( D . 5 G. 4 0.4 F, 5 G. 31, \(H. 4 D, 7 E, 1 G, 2 E, 3 F, 5 TABLE III GROUPED TRANSACTION DATA FOR LEVEL 1 TID 1temn 1 \(I**, 10 2", 5 2 \(I". 7 2". 7 3 \(I**, 12 Z", I 4 \(1". 6 2". 8 5 \(I**, 13 TABLE IV FUZZY WEIGHTS OF ALL ITEMS I1ems Fuzzy Weights A ~0.5.0.75. II 


B ~o.z8.0.53.b.78 c \(0.5.0.75, I j D \(0.5,0.75,1 E \(0. 0.25. 0.5 F i0:5,0. i5.  i j G \(0.75, I ,  I H \(0.11.0.36, 1 TABLE V COUNTS OF FilZZY REGIONS OF ITEMS AT LEVEL I Items Counts I * * .LOW o+o+o+o+o=a I**.Middle 0+0.5+0+0.75+0=1.25 1 **.High 1+0.5+1+0.25+1=3.75 Z".LOW O+O+I+0+0=l.O 2**.Middle 1+0.5+0+0.25+0=1.75 2**.High 0+0.5+0+0.75+0=1.25 Tanl .~V1 FUZZY WEIGHTED SUPPORTS OF ITEMS AT LEVEL I Items Funy Weighted Supports 1 .* T _.. m " m , ."".. I 1 **.Middle \(0.125,0.187. 0.25 High \(0.375.0.562,0.750 2*..LOW \(0.056,0.106, 0.156 2**.Middle \(0.098.0.l8SS, 0.273 2**.High \(0.07,0.1325,0.195 P 4 IOW middle In the remainder of this section, we give a simple example to illustrate the weighted fuzzy association rules mining process described in this algorithm. Consider the predefined taxonomy shown in Figure 4 and the data set with the five transactions shown in Table I ,  where each item is represented as an ordered pair \(item name, its quantitative value First, the items given in Table I are encoded as shown in Table 11. For instance, the terminal node G at Level 3 is represented by 1 1  1 ,  and the terminal node E at level 2 is encoded as 2 1 Second, the counts of the items in the transactions are grouped level by level. For instance, as the items in transaction 1 are concerned, items \(1 11, 4 112, 2 12, 4 I**, IO results for all the items in Table I Third, the function Fuzzy WeighfedSupport is executed where the fuzzy weight of each item at level kl to 3 is either given beforehand or found based on one of the given three cases enumerated in Section 4. For instance, known fuzzy weights of items A ,  E ,  F and G in Figure 4 are used to determine the fuzzy weights of the remaining items in the taxonomy structure; the results are reported in Table IV In this example, we assume that the fuzzy membership functions for item quantities are the same for all the levels These membership functions are shown in Figure V. Also the scalar cardinality of each fuzzy region in the transactions is computed ,as the count value. For instance for the fuzzy region ]**.high, the scalar cardinality is computed as \(1+0.5+1+0.25+1 computed for the other items are shown in Table V. Then the fuzzy weighted support of each hzzy  region is calculated; and the results are shown in Table VI As mentioned before, we use a different fuzzy weighted set of minimum support for each level. This set is calculated as: FWiuSup' = FMinSup'.\(Ihe graviw of I:"&lt where =A, here U is the total number of membership functions for item importance at level k and I is the t-th membership function. Thus, If, represents the fuzzy average weight of all possible linguistic terms of importance In this example, we use \(0.15,'0.18, 0.21 sets of support threshold for level 1. The gravity of 1 6  for item weights shown in Figure 3 is calculated as 0.5. Thus the fuzzy weighted sd of the minimum support is 


the fuzzy weighted sd of the minimum support is computed as \(0.15,0.18,0.21 0.075,0.090,0.10S0 Finally, the fuzzy weighted support of each item in Table VI is compared with the fuzzy weighted minimum support by fuzzy ranking. For this example, we adapted the gravity ranking approach. So, we extract the large weighted fuzzy 1-itemsets: l**.Middle, l**.High and 2**. Middle Since L; is not null, we continue by executing the function CandidateSet, and candidate set C; is extracted from L; as \(l1*.MiddIe 2**.Middle l**.High 2**.Middle The following processes are implemented for the candidate set c;. First, the weighted fuzzy sets of I*'.Middle 2*'.Middle 1 **.High 2**.Middle each transaction are computed as shown in Table VI1. The 2 1 U Fig. 5 .  Membership functions representing quantitative values 228 fuzzy weighted supports of \(l**.Middle 2**.Middle l**.High Z**.Middle which it can be easily seen that the fuzzy weighted support of \(I**.High 2**.Middle which is \(0.098, 0.1855, 0.273 TABLEVII WEIGHTED COUNTS OF THE LARGE ITEMS AT LEVEL 1 I \(0. n . m  10.5. 0.75. I TID I**.Middle I**.Hixh 2+*.Mlddle z in.zs,o.375.n.s 3 \(0, o, n n.s,n.75, I 0.0,o 4 \(0.37s,n.56zs.n.75 n.iz5,n.1875,n.z5 n.07,0.13~5,n.195 5 \(o,o. 0 0.5,0.75, I n.0, n TABLE VI11 FUZZY WEIGHTED SUPPORTS Of THE 2-ITEMSETS AT LEVEL 1 Itemsets F m y  Weixhted Supports I**.Middle, Z**.Middle \(n.042,0.n795,0.117 I**.High. 2**.Middle \(0.098.0.1855,0.273 We skip the while loop in the algorithm as its process is similar to the above described process. At the end, we move into generating association rules by executing the function FindAssociationRules. The rules finding process is demonstrated next RI:  Ifl**=High, then 2**=Middle RI: IfZ**.Middle, then I**=High association tules are calculated as follows For R I :  FSup, = 1 + O S +  O+ 0.25+ O =  1.75 The weighted confidence values of these two possible FSup,,, =1+0.5+1+0.25+1=3.75 W, =\(0.28, 0.53, 0.78 FWCorf ---.\(0.28, 0.53, 0.78 0.1288, 0.2438, 0.35881 3.75 1.75 ForRI: FSup, =1.75; FSup,-,, = I  +0.5+0.25=1.75 1.75 1.75 FWC~II&amp;~ =-.\(0.28, 0.53, 0.78 0.28, 0.53, 0.78 If we assume FMinCorrf =\(0.2,0.4,0.6 RI is an interesting rule VI. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS We assessed the applicability and effectiveness of our approach by conducting some experiments using a synthetic transaction database. All of the experiments were conducted on Pentium 111, 1.4 GHz CPU with 512 MB of memory and running Windows 2000. We set the number of levels ns 3; and there are 64 terminal nodes at level 3, 16 generalized items at level 2, and 4 generalized items at level 1.  So, each internal node has four branches. The proposed approach is tested on IOOK transactions with an average of 100 items. We conducted three different sets of experiments. The first set of experiments is dedicated to show the relationship between the number of tules mined and fuzzy minimum support sets along with average weight 


and fuzzy minimum support sets along with average weight intervals. For this purpose, we have used three linguistic intervals for which random linguistic weights have been generated, namely very-Unimportant, Ordinary Ordinary, Very-Important] and very-Unimportant, Very Important], denoted W-0,O-VI and W-VI, respectively Figure 6 gives the number of rules with respect to the minimum support threshold at level 1. In this experiment the minimum supports at the other levels are adjusted to middle-below whose set is different for both level 2 and level 3 as shown in Figure 7. In a similar way, Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the correlation between minimum support in linguistic terms for two different levels and the number of rules produced. From the two figures, it can be easily seen that the number of rules mined decreases along with the increase in linguistic minimum support thresholds. Also more rules are generated for the linguistic weights of the higher fuzzy set. For example, the curve having [0-VI linguistic weights has generated more rules than the others especially [W-01 ones K C y b W  I O W  mdme- mdmr- t"@ -hi Minimum Suppans at Level I trl0.S .*a Fig. 6. Number of tules for various linguistic minimum suppart values M l r u n ~ P W . N h L e 3 1 \( X Fig. 7. Fuzzy Sets of minimum support tisod for different levek 0 1wo - 2 3000 b *cm E i 1000 W y l O W  IOW md*- mac- hlgh UnjY MinimumSupponsat Level 2 t r l O r x  *Ma Fig. 8. Number of mles far various linguistic minimum support values lam 6Mo 5000 4000 3 a a I 2000 1000 0 velylow IOW middle- middle- high vely below above high Minimum Suppofs SI Level 3 Fig. 9. Number of wi.5 for various linguistic minimum suppolr values In the second set of the experiments, the runtimes of the first experiments are compared. The achieved results are reported in Figures 10, 11, and 12, which do meet our expectations, i.e., the runtime decreases as the minimum support thresholds increase 229 V l o r  ,ow d d m C b . b V d d , n ~ ~  b.$h V Minimum Suppans at Love1 1 Fig. I O .  Runtimes for various linguistic minimum supports at level I  a i l o w  I O U  iddie  iddie- ugh rnyw ow above Minimum Suppons at Level 2 Fig. 11. Runtimes for various linguistic minimum mpportr at level 2 SenI 4 \\  I  E a  2 Y O y l O U  IOW  Mle- rmddlr- hgh  nyhgh Minimum Suppolts 81 Love1 3 below .bow Fig. 12. Runtimes for various linguistic minimum supports at level 3 vrrylov IOW riddle. Mddlr high v q h i g h r l o w  nbmr Minimum Confidence Fig. 13. Number ofrules for various linguistic minimum confidence In the last experiment, the minimum support has been fixed at the linguistic value middle-below and we tested, for 


fixed at the linguistic value middle-below and we tested, for three fuzzy regions, the effect of using linguistic terms to express confidence in similar way to the membership functions of minimum support used for level 1 shown in Figure 4, on the number of generated association rules. The results plotted in Figure 13 reveal two important features One of them is that the number of rules decreases, for all cases, as the linguistic confidence threshold increases. The VII. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we proposed a mining approach for extracting interesting multi-cross-level fuzzy weighted rules in a given taxonomy. A top-down progressive deepening technique has been used while mining multi-cross-levels weighted association rules. Also, three important criteria minimum support, minimum confidence and item importance used in determining the interestingness of the rules have been represented by fuzzy sets. So, we obtained more meaningfid rules that are more understandable for human beings. As apart from the studies described in the literature, we defined the concept of weighting internal nodes in a given taxonomy. The experiments conducted on a synthetic database showed that the proposed approach produces consistent and encouraging meaningful results Currently, we are investigating the possibility of combining the approach proposed in this paper with the concept of adjacency lattice for online mining REFERENCES I ]  R Agrawal, T. Imielinski and A. Swami  Mining association NI~S between sets ofitems in large databases  Proe. ofACM SIGMOD. pp 207-216, 1993 121 R. Srikant and R Agrawal  Mining quanlitative association NI~S in large relationaltables  Proc. ofACMSlCMOD, pp. 1-12, 1996 3] RJ. Miller and Y. Yang  Association Rules over Inten,al Data  Proc ofACMSIGMOD, pp. 452.461, 1997 4] B. Lent, A. Swami and J. Widom  Clustering Association Rules   Proc. oflEEEICDE, pp. 220-231, 1997 5] L.A. Zadeh  Fuzzy Sets  In/ormntion and Connol, vol. 8, pp. 338 353, 1965 6] W. Zhang  Mining Fuzzy Quantitative Association Rules  Proc. of IEEE ICTAI, pp. 99-102, 1999 7] K.C.C. Chan and W.H. A    Mining Fuzzy Association Rules: Proc o f . 4 C M C / M ,  pp.209-215, 1997 SI K. Himta and W. Pedrjcz  Linguistic Data Mining and Fuzzy Modelling  Proc. ofEEE-FUZZ, pp. 1448-1496, 1996 9] T.P. Hong, C.S. Kuo and S.C. Chi  Mining Association Rules from Quantitative Data  Inrelligenr Dolo Analysis. vol. 3, no. 5, pp. 363 376, 1999 I O ]  T. P. Hong, M. J. Chiang and S .  L. Wang  Mining from Quantitative Data with Linguistic Minimum Supports and Confidences  Proc. of IEEE-FUZZ, pp. 494-499. 2002 Ill H. Ishibuchi, T. Nakashim and T. Yammato  Fuzzy Association Rules for Handling Continuous Attributes  Proc. of IEEE Inle,aarionolSyn~posium on Indumiol Elecnonics. pp.l18-121,2001 I Z ]  M. Kaya, R. Alhajj, F. Polat and A. Arslan  Eflicient Automated Mining of Fuzzy Association Rules  Proc. qfDEX1, 2002 1131 C.M. Kuok, A.W. Fu and M.H. Wong  Milung fuzzy association rulesin&amp;tabases  SIGMOD Record, Vo1.17,No.l, pp.41-46. 1998 1141 W. Pedrjcz  Fuzzy Sets Technology in Knowledge Discovery   Furzy Sen ondSystems. pp. 279-290, 1998 1151 R.R. Yager  Fuzzy Summaries in Database Mining  Proc. of llre International Confireme 011 Artificial InteIligence/or Application, pp 265-269, 1995 1161 R Snkant and R. Agrawal  Mining generalized association ~ l d   Proc. of VLDE, pp. 407-419, Zurich. Sept. 1995 I71 1. Ha  andY. Fu  Mining Multiple-Level Association Rules in Large Databases  IEEE TKDE. vol. 1 I ,  pp. 798-805, Oct. 1999 IS] T.P. Hang. K.Y. Lin and B.C. Chien  Mining Fuzzy Multiple-Level Association Rules from Quantitative Data  Applied Inrelligence, vol 18, pp. 79-90,2003 


18, pp. 79-90,2003 1191 T.P. Hong, K.Y. Lin and S.L. Wang  Fuzzy data mining for interesting generalized association tules  Fuze Sets and Syslrms, vol 1 3 8 . ~ ~ . 2 . o o . 2 5 5 - 2 6 9 . ~ e n t .  2003. .~ ,.. 1 .  other is that the number of  rules tends to decrease along 1201 S. Yue, el -Mining f U q  NleS items   with the increase in the numbers of fuzzy regions. This is reasonable because a large number of regions will make quantities of an item in different transactions easily scattered in different regions prOe. o j m E s M c , p p .  1906-1911,2000 1211 C.H. Cai, et al  Mining Associalion Rules with Weighted Items   1221 A. Gyenerei  Mining Weighted Association Rules for Fuzzy Quantitative Items  TUCS Technical Report No: 346, May 2000 1231 R Agrawal and R Srikant  Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules  Proe of VLDB, pp. 487499, Sept. 1994 OfrDEAs, PP.68-77. 1998 230 pre></body></html 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


