 Couple Satellite Sensor Web Service with WRF Model for Weather Decision Service  Zhong Zheng 1 Nengcheng Chen 1 Wei Wang 1,2  1 State Key Laboratory of Information Engineering in Surveying, Mapping and Remote Sensing Wuhan University Wuhan, Hubei, 430079, China 2 LIESMARS Shen Zhen Research and Development Center Keyuan Road, Shenzhen, 518057, China zzll.zheng@gmail.com, cnc_dhy@hotmail.com, wangwei8091@163.com Corresponding author cnc_dhy@hotmail.com   Abstract Nowadays, the Sensor Web provides a new way for sensor planning and observation service, whereas, how to couple 
diverse satellite observations with specified forecast model for weather support decision service under Sensor Web environment is a big challenge. This paper proposes a new framework for put data assimilation into a forecast model. The framework is realized based on the Sensor Web Enablement \(SWE\, Business Process Execution Language \(BPEL\ and Web Processing Service \(WPS\nder the Service Oriented Architecture \(SOA and Open Geospatial Consortium \(OGC\andard. The framework contains four main Service components: Sensor Observation Service \(SOS\ Sens or Alert Service \(SAS\Web Notice Service \(WNS\nd WPS. All the services are chained with BPEL and could be automatically executed. The processing 
framework is distributed, interoperable, plug-and-play and automatically  Keywords-Sensor Web, Decision Support Service, Satellite Weather, Model I  I NTRODUCTION  In everyday life, weather forecast is one of the most common and important decision support systems. However current Weather Decision Support System h a s m a ny  problems, which occurs integrating large data volume from satellite sensors with different observational constraints and lacking real time disastrous weather forecasting from sensors observations to information publish The sensor web is a group of interoperable web services 
which all comply with a specific set of sensor behaviors and interfaces specifications [2  T h e O p en G e o s p a ti al Co n s o r tiu m  OGC\ Sensor Web Enablement \(SWE\ includes three information models: Sensor Model Language \(SensorML Observation and Measurements \(O&M\4 an d Tr an s d u c e r  Markup Language \(TML\[6 n d fo u r ser v i c e  i m p l e m e n t a t i o n  specifications: Sensor Planning Service \(SPS\ [7  S e ns o r  Observation Service \(SOS\[8  S e n s o r A l e r t S e rv i c e S A S    9    and Web Notification Service \(WNS W h e n t h e y w o r k  together, it is possible to use Web services to discover, access and control sensors. Sensor Web facilitates the live link 
between sensors and information. Therefore, this study adopted the Sensor Web technology to put data assimilation into a forecast model through using BPEL engine to integrate sensor web service in the Service Oriented Architecture \(SOA\and OGC standards Weather Research and Forecasting \(WRF\ model is chosen as Weather Decision Support System in the framework [11   The WRF is a next-generation mesoscale forecast model and assimilation system that will upgrade both the understanding and the prediction of mesoscale precipitation systems and will promote closer ties between the research and operational forecasting communities. The model incorporate advanced numeric and data assimilation techniques, a multiple 
relocatable nesting capability, and improved physics particularly for treatment of convection and mesoscale precipitation.  It is intended for a wide range of applications from idealized research to operational forecasting, with priority emphasis on horizontal grids of 1–10 kilometers In this paper, Section II specifies the requirements of data service, processing services, BPEL workflow and processing method for the data assimilation. Section III designs the framework of prototype system. Section IV presents and discusses the implementations. The last section gives a conclusions and points out the future directions II  D ATA 
A SSIMILATION REQUIREMENTS A  Sensor Web Enablement The OGC SWE standards framework provides implement specifications for interfaces, protocols and encodings Integration of these services can create a platform to register discover and access anonymous and heterogeneous sensors distributed all over the world through internet [12  Sensor web enablement services implemented for the Weather Decision Service prototype system include SOS and WNS. SOS provides an API for managing deployed sensors and retrieving sensor data and specifically “observation” data 8   It en ab les th e cl ien t  to r e qu es t  f i l t e r  an d  ret r i e v e  
observations and sensor system information from the database WNS provides an API for asynchronous delivery of messages A simple WNS provides the capability to notify a user and/or service that a specific event occurred [10   B  Web Processing Service 1 Supported by grants from the Chinese 863 program No.2007AA12Z230, PI: Dr. Nengcheng Chen\, National Nature Science Foundation of China \(NSFC\ program \(No.40721001, PI: Dr. Jianya Gong and the LIEMARS Shenzhen R&D project \(No.SY200806260042A and CXB200903090023A 


 The Web Processing Service \(WPS\1  s p ec if ica t i o n  describes a mechanism by which geoprocessing may be performed on remote servers which using XML for communication through the Internet. The WPS specification was developed for offering any kind of GIS processing functionality by a standardized interface use any language and platform independent. According to the specification, there are three mandatory operations performed by a WPS, namely GetCapabilities, DescribeProcess and Execute   GetCapabilities: returns a brief service metadata document describing the resources of the specific server implementation, and gives a short description of each process offered by the WPS instance   DescribeProcess: returns a detailed description of a process including its required input- \(including the allowed formats\ and output-parameter   Execute: finally run the offered process These operations can be requested by a client and performed by a WPS server implementation C  BPEL Workflow The Business Process Execution Language \(BPEL\is an XML-based language for creating business process workflows and orchestrating XML-based web services T h e re sul t i ng BPEL application supports a SOA paradigm by leveraging web computing standards to deliver an application that is the business process. In a BPEL process, every piece of data is in XML format. This includes the messages passed to and from the BPEL process, the messages exchanged with external services, and all variables. We define the types for these messages and variables with the XML schema, in the Web Services Description Language \(WSDL\le for the BPEL process itself or in the WSDL files for the web services that a BPEL process invokes. The WSDL defines the input and output messages for a BPEL process, the supported client interface and operations, and other features. This functionality enables a BPEL process to be registered and called as a web service D  WRF-Var The Variational Data Assimilation \(WRF-Var\ is a newly developed variation data assimilation system, which is a unified variation data assimilation system built within the software framework of the WRF model, used for application in both research and operational environments   T h e  b a si c interface is fully consistent with the WRF model. The WRFVar system requires three input files to run: a\ A WRF first guess input format file output from either WPS/real \(cold-start or WRF \(warm-start\, b\ Observations \(in ASCII format or PREBUFR\ and c\ A background error statistics file containing background error covariance currently calculated via the NMC-method\, using “gen_be” utility of WRF-Var. To run the WRF-Var system includes the following steps  1  Setup frame Reads grid dimensions from namelist.input” file and then initialize tile, memory, patch dimensions, etc 2  Read namelist Reads WRF-Var data assimilation options from “namelist.3dvar” file and perform consistency checks between Namelist options 3  Setup background The background field is read in 4  Setup background errors Components of the background error are read in 5  Setup observations Observations and metadata are read in 6  Calculate innovation vector Calculates “model equivalent” B of observation O through interpolation and change of variable and then Computes observation minus first guess \(O-B\ value 7  Minimize cost function A cost function \(as in \(1\ is defined to measure the difference between the model and observations. Through iterative solution of this cost-function an “optimal” estimate is obtained  11 11    22 TT bbo o J xxxBxx yyOyy     1 Where x is a vector of analysis x b is a vector of background \(first-guess B is the background error covariance matrix y 0  is a vector of observation y is a vector of model-derived observation transformed by the observation operator H \(y=H\(x E is the observational error covariance matrix F is the representativeness error covariance matrix 8  Compute analysis Once WRF-VAR has found a converged control variable, convert to model space analysis increments and performs consistency checks  9  Compute diagnostics Compute O-B, O-A statistics for all observation types and variables and compute A-B statistics for all model variables and levels. Then Statistics include minimum, maximum, mean and standard deviation 10  Output analysis Both analysis and analysis increments are output 11  Tidy up Dynamically allocated memory is deallocate and summary run-time data output III  A RCHITECTURE F RAMEWORK  In order to achieve the goal of automatic coupling atellite Sensor Web service with WRF model for weather decision service, the system must be interoperable with SOS, WPS, and WNS. The different services can exchange data via a common set of standard information models using the same standard protocols. At the same time, the system must be flexibility to meet the diverse services requirement. The design of the system must provide the loosely architecture, satisfy the requirement of diverse services requirement and deployment 


 A  System Architecture To satisfy the above goals, SOA has been adopted for the prototype system. As shown in Figure 1, sensor data will be served through standard OGC SOS. The data assimilation and processing algorithms are published as WPS. The result of forecast model will be sent to users through WNS. By defining WDSL description for these services, they can be easily chained and executed through BEPL Engines. The system includes three layers: data layer, business layer, and presentation layer   Figure 1. Service-oriented architecture of forecast system The data layer includes the sensors observation data. In the system, the data includes NOAA-18 observation data, JMA T213 \(Japan Meteorological Agency T213\, GTS \(Global Telecommunication System\d GFS \(Global Forecast System\The NOAA-18 satellite mostly data includes atmospheric temperature data and the data can be served by SOS; The JMA T213, GTS and GFS are download from internet and use to first guess The business Layer consists of a BPEL engine, SOS implementation, WNS implementation and WPS implementation. A uniform WSDL service description is used to expose the service, bindings, port types and operations about SOS and WPS. BEPL Engines is used to achieve service orchestration and executed. All these services follow OGC standard The presentation layer is the client of the system. The presentation layer consists of components with which users can access, view, and manipulate sensor observation data or data assimilation result B  Service Components The weather forecast model need heterogeneous data volume from various sensors. By reason of most data volume cannot direct access; the prototype system must be flexibility to meet the diverse sensor observation data. SOS allows the client to select any random number of the observation variables available from the data source, and to subset the data by spatial and temporal range. So using SOS, the sensor data and observation data can be accessed, retrieved and downloaded by respectively using the operations DescribeSensor GetCapabilities and GetObservation The data assimilation was made using WRF-Var system and the weather forecast model was made using WRF model WRF-Var system and WRF model are available as executables which can run the command in a terminal window. To enable them in the Web environment and support interoperation, they are encapsulated and managed as a geospatial process in the WPS. All the services are chained with BPEL and can be automatically executed IV  I MPLEMENTATIONS  This section details some of the service implementation sensor observation service, processing services, WSDL and BPEL workflows A  Sensor Observation Service The observation data of NOAA-18 are to be served through SOS server. The NOAA-18 satellite is described by Sensor Model Language \(SML\ the satellite observation data is stored in PostGIS database which is hosted at the SWE-WHU server and encoded in Observations and Measurements \(O&M 1  Sensor model The SensorModel tool is used to create the satellite sensor model [16   T h e t o ol use s t h e C# l a ngua ge a n d .N ET  Framework 3.5 design and implementation. The main function of the tool is to provide visual modeling method by Sensor Model Language NOAA-18 platform is build up based on the SensorModel tool. The main information is the metadata about the satellite and the file information, such as satellite orbit information sensor information, scanner type, and so on. NOAA-18 satellite include the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer/3 AVHRR/3\, High Resolution Infrared Radiation Sounder HIRS/4\dvanced Microwave Sounding Unit A \(AMSU-A Microwave Humidity Sounder \(MHS\ Solar Backscatter Ultraviolet Radiometer/2 \(SBUV-2\, Space Environment Monitor/2 \(SEM/2\, and an Advanced Data Collection System ADCS\ We describe each sensor as a component saving in a unique XML file, so there are seven components to describe the physical sensor in the NOAA-18 platform. Figure 2 shows part of the NOAA model. This part describes mostly parameters characteristics of AVHRR sensor, including number of channels, IFOV, full scan period, swath width, and so on. The record “Number of channels” means the AVHRR sensor has six spectral channels  Figure 2. AVHRR sensor description by SML 2  Observation  encoding The sensor data, which is converted from its native format to O&M, is easy to deliver as either ASCII or binary 


 attachment and in order to increase data interoperability. For example, as shown in the figure 3, the atmospheric temperature data, which obtain from NOAA-18 AVHRR sensor, is encoded by O&M. The time is between “2010-03-12T03:52:00EDT and “2010-03-15T02:52:00EDT”. The observation has seventy-two records. For the “2010-03-12T03:52:00EDT, 53 record, the time of measurement is “2010-0312T03:52:00EDT”, EDT means the USA Eastern Daylight Time, and the atmospheric temperature is 53F  Figure 3. Sample of AVHRR sensor observation data 3  Sensor observation service At last NOAA_18_SOS is developed based on J2EE. The SOS implements three operations: GetCapabilities DescribeSensor, and GetObservation. The GetCapabilities operation can obtain SOS capability file. The DescribeSensor operation can get NOAA_18_SOS sensor information which describe by SensorML. The GetObservation operation can receive NOAA_18 sensor observation data which encoded in O&M and stored in PostGIS database B  Processing Service As a geospatial process, it has a description for its inputs and outputs. The description can be retrieved through standard operation DescribeProcess. For example, the description for the WPS_WRF3DVar process can be retrieved by using the following HTTP GET request http://swe.whu.edu.cn:9000/WPS/WebProcessingService?R equest=DescribeProcess&Service=WPS&identifier=cn.edu.wh u.swe.wps.algorithms.WRF3DVar As shown in Figure 4, from the response result, the WRF3DVar process need three input parameters include the background field \(Grib format\, Background Errors \(Grib format\, and Observations \(ASCII format\ The output is assimilation result \(Grib format\. The result can be converted to binary format using the wrftograds tools and then be visualizing using grads tools  Figure 4. The response result of DescribeProcess  C  Defining the WSDLs for SOS and WPS The WSDL is an XML-based language that provides a model for describing Web services T h e W S D L d e fi ne s  services as collections of network endpoints, or ports. The abstract definitions of ports and messages are separated from their concrete use or instance, such as “how” and “where” that functionality is offered. As a rule, a WSDL instance is divided into four parts: Operations, Prototypes, Bindings, and Services In the forecast use case, we have defined the WSDL for SOS and WPS, and set up services such as NOAA SOS, MODIS SOS, WRFVAR WPS and WRF WPS Figure 5 shows the components of the SOS WSDL:  two kinds of Prototypes \(HTTP Get and Post\, three mandatory operations \(GetCapabilities, DescribeSensor, and GetObservation\ two kinds of bindings SOS_HTTP_POST_Binding and SOS_HTTP_GET_Binding and NOAA_18_SOS Service components  Figure 5. SOS WSDL Figure 6 shows the components of the WPS WSDL. The WPS WSDL has two transportation port types \(HTTP GET and POST\hree mandatory operations \(GetCapabilities DescribeProcess, and Execute\ two kinds of bindings WPS_HTTP_POST_Binding and WPS_HTTP_GET_Binding\nd two WPS Service components \(WPS_WRFVAR and WPS_WRF  Figure 6. WPS WSDL  D  BPEL Workflow The workflow technology is used in order to achieve interoperable automation processing framework. With visual BPEL designer tools Oracle JDeveloper BPEL designer, the 


 concrete BPEL workflow was described and created. It enables enterprises to orchestrate and execute Web services and business processes. A BPEL script file and an unbound WSDL file are generated using the designer tools For the forecast model, the overall workflow sequence has four steps. As shown in Figure 7, first, all the data required to start the forecast model need to be retrieved from SOS, and fed into a pre-processing service to complete the data format normalization. Second, a data assimilation service organizes the data and observations into the simulation model. Third, the forecast model is started. Fourth, the outputs are retrieved, the result sends through a notification service The BPEL engine acts as a client; the four partner links represent the SOS, WPS_WRFVAR, WPS_WRF and WNS after one web service finishes its work, it will call-back invoking the engine so the next step of the workflow can be directed by the engine. In the figure 7, the orange squares represent the assigning activity, the blue circle squares receive the input, and the blue squares are actual partners or component Web services operations. The first blue squares represent the SOS invoke. This step invokes a SOS to get the observation data. The SOS provides atmospheric temperature data from NOAA-18 AVHRR sensor. After the data acquisition is completed, the second blue squares represent the WPS_WRFVAR can be invoked. The assimilation algorithm is encapsulated as WPS. The assimilation result and Namelist file are supply to forecast algorithm. The third blue squares represent the WPS_WRF invoke. This step invokes WRF model, which is encapsulated as WPS, to compute forecast result from the assimilation result. After finish compute, the fourth blue squares invoke WNS service to send a notification  Figure 7. Weather forecast workflow  V  C ONCLUSIONS A ND O UTLOOK  This prototype system study represents SWE in a useful application. By applying SWE to forecast model for weather support decision service, this paper demonstrate the usefulness and feasibility of a more timely and efficient satellite data access and process. The prototype framework is distributed interoperable, plug-and-play and automatically. The next step is to study how to development of abstract model workflow to support the flexibility and reliability of composite service and how to implement multi-satellite sensors near real-time data assimilation in service level R EFERENCES  1  J. Evans and E. Ducot, “The Integrated Terminal Weather System ITWS\,” Lincoln. Laboratory Journal, Vol. 7, No. 2, 1994, p.449 2  L. Di, “Geospatial Sensor Web and Self-adaptive Earth. Predictive Systems \(SEPS\,” San Diego, California, USA, NASA, 2007, p.4 3  M. Botts and A. Robin, 2007, OpenGIS® Sensor Model Language SensorML\ Implementation Specification, OGC 07-000 ed: Open Geospatial Consortium, p. 180 4  S. Cox, 2007, OpenGIS® Observations and Measurements \(O&M Part 1 - Observation schema, OGC 07-022r1 ed: Open Geospatial Consortium, p. 84 5  S. Cox, 2007, OpenGIS® Observations and Measurements \(O&M Part 2 - Sampling Features, OGC 07-022r3 ed: Open Geospatial Consortium, p. 46 6  S. Havens, 2007, OpenGIS® Transducer Markup Language \(TML Implementation Specification, OGC 06-010r6 ed: Open Geospatial Consortium, p. 258 7  I. Simonis, 2007, OpenGIS® Sensor Planning Service \(SPS Implementation Specification, OGC 07-014r3 ed: Open Geospatial Consortium, p. 186 8  A. Na, M. Priest, 2007, OpenGIS® Sensor Observation Service \(SOS implementation specification, OGC 06-009r6 ed: Open Geospatial Consortium , p. 104 9  I. Simonis, 2006, OpenGIS® Sensor Alert Service \(SAS Implementation Specification, OGC 06-028r5 ed: Open Geospatial Consortium, p. 144   I. Simonis, A. Wytzisk, 2003, OpenGIS® Web Notification Service WNS\ Implementation Specification, OGC 03-008r2 ed: Open Geospatial Consortium, p. 46   J. Michalakes, S. Chen, J. Dudhia, L. Hart, J. Klemp, J.Middlecoff and W. Skamarock, “Development of a nextgeneration regional weather research and forecast model,” Developments in Teracomputing Proceedings of the Ninth ECMWF Workshop on the Use of High Performance Computing in Meteorology, 2001, pp269–276   M. Botts, G. Percivall, C. Reed and J. Davidson, “OGC Sensor Web enablement: Overview and high level architecture,” the 2nd International GeoSensor Networks Conference, Boston, MA, 2006, pp372-380   P. Schut, 2007, OpenGIS® Web Processing Service \(WPS\ OGC 05007r7, ed: Open Geospatial Consortium, p. 87   M. Juric, B. Mathew, P. Sarang, Business Process Execution Language for Web Services: BPEL and BPEL4WS. Packt Publishing Ltd Birmingham, 2006, p. 292   D. Barker, W. Huang, Y. Guo, A. Bourgeois, “A Three-Dimensional Variational \(3DVAR\ta Assimilation System for Use with MM5 NCAR Technical Note, 2003, p. 73   J. Chen, N. Chen, W. Wang, C. Hu, Z. Zheng, “Remote satellite sensor modeling design and implementation based on the sensor modeling language,” International Symposium on Spatial Analysis, SpatialTemporal Data Modeling, and Data Mining, 2009, Proc. of SPIE Vol 7492 74922V1-10   E. Christensen, F. Curbera, G. Meredith, S. Weerawarana. Web Services Description Language \(WSDL\ 1.1. http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl. 2001  


861-891  Hugh D S Assessing the inter ve ntion ef fectivenes s of business  incubation programs on new busi ness start-ups. Journal of Developmental Entrepreneurship, 1999 Industrial clusters\222 upgrading and transformations 307 Venture Incubator Subjects in Industrial Clusters Venture incubation conditions in industrial clusters  ACKNOWLEDGMENT  The paper is one of the outcomes of the project \223Research on the Mutual Reaction Mechanism of Developing of Industrial Clusters and the Incubating of Entrepreneurs\224 which is supported by th e national natural science foundation of China. The project number is 70872034. It is also one of the outcomes of the project which supported by the national natural science foundation of China \(NO 71072030\ the project which supported by Ministry of Education of China NO. 09YJA630045   REFERENCES   Krug m a n. .Increas ing Returns and Economic Geography The Journal of Political Economy, 1991, 99\(3  H.Bahra m i, S.Ev ans. Flexible Recy cling and Hig h Technology   Understanding Silicon Valley: the anato m y of an entrepreneurial re gion, 2000. 165-189  Zhao Jiang m ing Liu Jinhon g The Development of Entrepreneurs and Industrial Clusters: Ventur e, Innovation and Social Capital [J Rural Economy,2004\(6  Mai Yiy uan, Peng Yiling, Qiao Junjie. The Correlat ions between Venture Activities and Industrial Clusters in Different Developm ent of S T, 2007\(4\:161-164  Saxenian A. Regional Advantage Culture and Com p etition in Silicon Valle Ca m b ridge: Ha rva rd University Press. 1994.68-72  Zhang Hui. The inner Ec onomic Mechanism of Industrial Cluster Comp ft Scien ce, 2003\(1  Hu Jianji, Chen Haibin. Analysis on the Critical \223 S oft Factors\224 in  Boosting the Industrial Clusters\222 Enterprises Derivation\204\204Taking the Experience of Enterprises\222 Derivation in Zhejiang\222s \223Massive Economic\224 for Exam China I ndustr ial Econom y, 2005 3  51-57  ME.Po rter. The Co m p etitive Advantage of Nations J]. Harva rd  Business Review, 1990.121 2 Scientific Research Venture implements Venture success  Venture resources 222 Strengthen of incubation effects Strengthen of incubation effects Accumulation effects of industrial clusters The Dynamics of Industrial Capitalism M].Harvard University Press 1994. 168-194  Tian Xiao m i ng  Jiang Qinfeng  W a ng Zhong m i n g  Em pir ical Research on Relationships between En terprises\222 Dynamic Capabilities and Venture Performan Studies i n Science of Science, 2008, 26 4  Bei Hu  F ang Ch en Rongzhi L i u. Research about the M a gnetic Effect of the Industrial Cluster on  International  Confer ence on Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management, Korea, 2008  NGOs Enterprise Governments Venture atmospheres 73-93  Feld m a n. The ent repreneurial event revisited: Fir m f o rm ation in a regional context [J]. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2001 10 4\(2 117-133  Z h ang W e i W a n g Z hong m i ng T h eor etical Resear ch on Ventur e Mechanism of Enterprise Incubator. Science & Technology Progress and Policy 11  Z h ang W e i Xin g Xiao Resear ch on Relationshi ps between  High-tech Enterprises\222 Ventur e Incubation Environments and Development Perform Studi es in Science of Science, 2007 25\(1\: 74-78  Alfred Dupont C h andler, Taka shi Hikino Scale and Scope  Information & Finance   Fig.2. Entrepreneurs\222\222 Incubation System in Industrial Clusters Consulting Service Venture environments Accumulations of enterprising talents Formation of entrepreneur intensions 


read operation, because clients can redirect read request to another replica immediately noticing the requested replica fails. Thus for read operations clients does not  has to wait for failure detection and service recovery.  Figure 8\(b\ shows the similar trend for different replication strategy and failure impact as PostMark. Furthermore, result of mipBLAST shows that when OSD fails, the more clients involving in processing, the worse performance becomes. There are two main reasons for this. Firstly, the more clients involving in processing, the more files are accessed, which trigger more service recovery procedures to ensure continuous service Secondly, mipBLAST running over multiply clients generates multiple threads to parallel access gene database Thus any failure of OSD will affect multiple instances of read/write operation at the same time which causes greater impact on performance eventually   a  b Figure 8  Performance of Postmark and mpiBlast with one replica, three replicas with Rc 2, and three replicas with occurrence of node failure. \(a Performance of PostMark,  \(b\mance of mpiBLAST VI  C ONCLUSION  In this paper we present a replication-based fault-tolerant mechanism for a large-scale cluster file system and its implementation in the prototype HA-DCFS3. This faulttolerant mechanism is primarily designed for high performance and high availability both under normal environment and in the presence of failures in the data path Our fault-tolerant mechanism uses an efficient and flexible replication algorithm called APCP, which optimizes existing primary copy protocol and improves performance for mutations by about 20%-60% without losing the ability of fault-tolerance. HA-DCFS3 also adopts an integrated faulttolerant framework, which transparently masks failures in data path and allows system to provide continuous service by fine-grained failure detection and a two-level data recovery strategy, which greatly reduces unnecessary data rereplication in the meantime of ensuring data availability A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The work is supported in part by the National High-Tech Research and Development Program of China under grant No. 2006AA01A102 and grand No. 2009AA01Z139. The authors would like to thank Dr. Jianfeng Zhan and Dr Yanchao Miao for their helpful suggestions. And our anonymous reviewers provided valuable feedback and suggestions that we have endeavored to incorporate into the paper R EFERENCES   1  R. Bryant, “Data-Intensive Supercomputing: The Case for DISC Technical Report, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, May 2007 2  B. Schroeder, G.A. Gibson, “The Computer Failure Data Repository CFDR\: collecting, sharing and analyzing failure data”, In Conference on High Performance Networking and Computing 2006 3  E. Pinherio, et al, “Failure trends in large disk”, In Proc. of the 5th conference on UNSENIX Conference in File and Storage Technologies 2007 4  B. Schroeder, G.A. Gibson, “Disk failures in the real world: What does an MTTF of 1,000,000 hours mean to you?”, In Proc. of the 5th conference on USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies  2007 5  J. H. Morris, et al, “Andrew: a distributed personal computing environment Commun. ACM 1986, pp.184–201 6  C. Jerian, et al, “Availability in the Echo File System”, SRC Research Report 112, Systems Research Center, Digital Co., Palo Alto CA,1993 7  B. Liskov, et al, “Replication in the Harp File System”, In Proc. of the 13th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles October, 1991 8  S. Ghemawat, H. Gobiol, “The Google  le system”.  In Proc. of the 19th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles Bolton Landing, NY, Oct. 2003. ACM 9  D. Gifford, “Weighted voting for replicated data”, In Proc. of the 7th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles Pacific Crove CA , 1979   A.El-Abbadi, et al, “An Efficient Fault-tolerant Protocol for Replicated Data Management”, In Proc. of the 4th Symposium on Principles of Database Systems ACM,1985,pp.215-229   S.A. Weil, et al, “Ceph: A scalable, high-performance  distributed  le system”, In Proc. of the 7th Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation Seattle, WA, Nov, 2006. USENIX   S.A. Weil, et al, CRUSH: Controlled, scalable, decentralized placement of replicated data. In Proc. of the 2006 ACM/IEEE Conference on Supercomputing Tampa, FL, Nov. 2006. ACM   T.D. Chandra, et al, “Paxos made live: an engineering perspective In Proc. of the 26th annual ACM Symposuim on Principles of Distributed Computing Portland, Oregon, 2007,pp.398-407 
100 
100 
100 


  F. Schneider, “Implementing fault-tolerant service using the state machine approach: a tutorial ACM Computing Surveys 1990 pp.299-319   J. Kubiatowicz, et al, “OceanStore: An architecture for global-scale persistent storage”, In Proc. of the 9th International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems Cambridge, MA, Nov. 2000. ACM   Y. Saito, et al, “FAB: Building distributed enterprise disk arrays from commodity components”, In Proc. of the 11th International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems pp. 48–58, 2004   F. Dabek, et al, “Wide-area cooperative storage with CFS”, In Proc of the 18th ACM  Symposium on Operating systems principles  October 21-24, 2001, Banff, Alberta, Canada   A. Demers, et al, “The Bayou architecture: Support for data sharing among mobile users”, In Proc. of IEEE Workshop on Mobile Computing Systems & Applications Dec. 1994   G. DeCandia et al, “Dynamo: Amazon's highly available key-value store”. In Proc. of 21st ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles 2007   B.Chun, et al, "Efficient Replica Maintenance for Distributed Storage Systems", In Proc .of the 3rd USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation May, 2006   S.Gaonkar, et al, “Scaling file systems  to  support petascale  clusters A dependability analysis to support informed design choices”. In Proc. of the 38th Annual IEEE/EFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks pp, 386-391,2008   Q. Xin, et al, “Evaluation of Distributed Recovery in Large-Scale Storage Systems”,  In Proc. of the 13th IEEE International Symposium on High Performance Distributed Computing pp.172-181 2004   J.Katcher, “PostMark: A New File System Benchmark http://www.netapp.com/, 1997    http://www.mpiblast.org   
101 
101 
101 


  9 Let 1 2 sin cos P P VC VC 212  004 004 then  22 12 1 1 2 tan P VCC C C 004    8  For all other signal frequencies present in the rectification proce ss, their values must total to zero whenever the rectificati on is not their specific frequency. The FST algorithm must preserve the property of orthogonality between the different frequencies. Additionally, any noise present even after rectifica tion will be mitigated by the summation process. Thus for this  technique, mathematically, crosstalk from adjacent frequencies will be zero and the SO S time record length can be as short as one period of the lowest fre quency. However, the FST method only works if the octave harmonic relationship holds for all frequencies in the SOS including the sample frequency. This en sures that over a period of any frequency present in the SOS there will always be an even number of samples. The implementa tion of the rectification functions with discrete signals in a manner that preserves orthogonality between different frequencies is developed within this paper  


  10 assume there is only one right answer  225  Remains objective so as not to be hinde red by irrelevant, outside influences Coaches and Mentors 225  Coaches and mentors team members and less experienced systems engineers to develop the breadth and depth of their competencies by giving specific positive and negative feedback for developmental purposes 225  Recognizes \223high potential\224 individuals by understanding and identifying the presence of skills and traits needed to be successful in the field  225  Challenges individuals to do their best work by giving assignments that build their capabilities  225  Asks questions that challenge assump tions, validate conclusions, and explore thought processes  225  Promotes a team culture that places a gr eater priority on the performance of the system than the performance of its subsystems Delegates \225  Delegates responsibility and authority to the lowest possible levels while retaining control of subsystem requireme nts and system integration functions 225  Builds confidence among team member s by delegating responsibility and decision-making authority to subsystem leads and then accepting the decisions they make without resistance or second-guessing  Ensures Resources are Available 225  Ensures that the team has the right tools, knowledge, and resources in order to get the job done 225  Keeps abreast of current analytical tools and models by knowing where to find them, when to apply them, and how to use them 225  Utilizes data archiving tools and processes to organize, simplify, and distribute information effectively.  Ensures that the information team members use to make decisions and coordinate activities is reliable and trustworthy.  Uses formal channels of communication to place reasonable limits on the number of people from whom information is gathered  Table 7 Attitudes and Attributes Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Remains Inquisitive and Curious 225  Is naturally inquisitive and curious, and is largely driven by that curiosity.  Is fearless and has an authentic and persistent desire to understand how everything works and how it relates to everything else.  Can quickly connect dots and identify weak spots 225  Seeks to understand the big picture and interrelationship of the parts.  Moves without boundaries from one topic to another, to discover what else needs to be known, what might be overlooked 225  Actively explores the technical issues, concepts, and lexicon of subsystem disciplines that are less familiar and comfortable Seeks Information and Uses the Art of Questioning 225  Asks difficult questions of discipline or subsystem experts regarding boundaries conditions, and assumptions to ensure continuity across all systems and to ensure that the proposed solution is an integrated solution and fundamentally makes sense 225  Asks questions, at appropriate times and in various ways, to ensure consistency of answers and to reveal if others unde rstand what constitutes system success Probes an area if inconsistency is revealed 225  Asks questions artfully.  Uses a series of questions that build upon each other to help identify the root of a problem or solutions 225  Asks \223Why?\224  \223Why did we decide to do it that way?\224  \223What were the alternative solutions, and did we do trade studies that helped us determine why this was the best solution?\224 225  Confident in knowing what they do know a nd willing to state it and admit what is not known; seeks specialists to fill in missing pieces 


  11 Advances Ideas 225  Restates, reframes, and clarifies others 222 questions to ensure understanding among group members by questioning and measuring an idea against system requirements 225  Fosters open two-way discussions.  Brainstorms with others to solicit various viewpoints.  Allows and encourages people to state opinions while listening for connections and disconnects in logic 225  Engages the team by explaining how th e solution or approach was reached Gains Respect Credibility, and Trust 225  Uses respectful tone, words and body language 225  Follows through on commitments and serves as an advocate for the team 225  Demonstrates understanding and appreciation of the challenges others face 225  Earns the respect of team members by demonstrating personal integrity Conducts business in an honest and tr ustworthy manner by avoiding deception and treating team members fairly 225  Sees trust of self and others as a perv asive element required to achieve success 225  Earns trust and respect of others by having a strong understanding of the system\222s technical requirements and assigns work based on the individual\222s skills and abilities.  Understands that not everyone is an \223A player\224 225  Lets team members do their job.  Tells them what has to be done, but not how to do it Possesses SelfConfidence 225  Willing to speak up, regardless of who is present to ensure the most technically sound decision is made for the good of the overall system 225  Demonstrates a positive attitude and exhibits confidence 225  Sits back and listens to group discussions while building models and connections and/or identifying disconnects Has a Comprehensive View 225  Takes responsibility for the whole life-cycle the whole system and all its parts Understands the whole job and that it is never done 225  Strikes a balance between what must happen to obtain success and what must not happen to avert failure Possesses a Positive Attitude and Dedication to Mission Success 225  Encourages a success oriented environment by displaying passion, excitement and enthusiasm about the work and th e challenges faced by the system 225  Is dedicated to mission success by worki ng until the job is successfully completed even if that means working long hours to ensure the job is done 225  Creates a \223can do\224 atmosphere by providi ng positive feedback and is empathetic toward team members.  Encourages others with their \223can do\224 attitude Is Aware of Personal Limitations 225  Seeks guidance from experts.  Knows what they know and what they don\222t know and seeks others to fill in missing data 225  Acknowledges technical limitations to others.  Does this with ease Adapts to Change and Uncertainty 225  Presses on with the project and ensures that the implications of change are addressed throughout the entire system in the face of ever-changing requirements  225  May make decisions with incomplete or imperfect data 225  Understands that change is inevitable and takes appropriate actions quickly.  May assemble other technical experts to brains torm various avenues and approaches to support the change 225  Remains calm under pressure. Looks at things pragmatically and understands what's going on. Doesn't over-react Uses Intuition Sensing 225  Uses both intuition and sensing when evaluating a problem or making a decision Does not rely solely on data.  May use of gut feeling" if data is inconclusive 225  Moves concepts and ideas easily through artificial boundaries.  Uses intuition and the senses to penetrate the system and discover or synthesize solutions to a problem Is Able to Deal  with Politics, Financial Issues, and Customer Needs 225  Is politically savvy.  Understands the larger forces at work.  Studies the political and financial issues and impacts 225  Shares and uses knowledge and expertise that shapes the political and financial environment in positive ways 


  12 225  Balances tasks and deliverables against resources and designs processes that save time and money 225  Possesses the ability to in terface with the customer and successfully lead discussions to create an understanding of system status across various levels, both up, down and across  Table 8 Communication Theme, Competencies, Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Listens Effectively and Translates Information 225  Sees the system from various perspectives Listens and acts as translator between parties \(subsystems, Project, vendors and other customers necessary information from others 225  Communicates project status to management and other key internal and external stakeholders.  Clearly communicates requirements to providers of the subsystem elements 225  Is an excellent listener.  Is keenly aware of what is being said and of omissions Listens for themes that continue to surface.  Then there comes a point where the SE will begin to penetrate by asking questions.  If questions are not adequately answered, the SE will begin to focus on the potential soft spot 225  Listens to identify critical elements or parameters of the problem.  Listens for information that leads to connections be tween system elements and information that disrupts connections 225  Clarifies and simplifies ideas under discussion by offering and/or requesting summation" statements Communicates Effectively Through Personal Interaction 225  Consistently communicates progress and gains understanding from others on what challenges and successes are faced by the systems design.  May meet face to face on a daily, sometimes hourly basis to ensure everyone is in the loop understand the systems requirements 225  Prefers personal interaction over e-mail Uses face-to-face interaction as a primary communication channel to hear concerns, share information, build rapport, create buy-in and create relationships within a team 225  Communicates in a clear and concise manner 225  Facilitates effective communication in t eam meetings and throughout the project by regularly interacting with people on the team and getting them together to ensure everyone is up-to-date  Facilitates an Environment of Open and Honest Communication 225  Welcomes divergent opinions by creating an atmosphere where team members feel the freedom to openly express their opinions.  Encourages and respects differing opinions in order to drive convergence on decisions 225  Promotes open, honest communication by asking questions, protecting proprietary information, protecting minority opinions, and incorporating valuable ideas that are shared in the system design Identifies and takes steps to remove communication barriers that are unique to particular individuals or groups 225  Patiently listens to each of the team memb ers/discipline experts in order to assure that everyone gets heard--that all divers e and dissenting opinions are considered Listens to all who want to speak, does not communicate irritation and does not shut people down 225  Effectively facilitate teams, meetings and disagreements.  Asks clarifying probing and penetrating questions to ensure all information is out on the table 225  Demonstrates accessibility and approach ability by having an open door policy  Uses Visuals to Communicate Complex Interactions 225  Graphically pulls together ideas, issues and observations to better understand and explain all systems and interfaces and to solve complex problems.  Uses visuals such as Venn diagrams, models, pictures, charts, metaphors, archetypes, and other relevant representations, to communicate complex problems or to display the 


  13 interconnections of sub-elements 225  Keeps everyone involved by keeping accurate records of big and small picture aspects affecting the system and distributing information in advance Communicates Through Story Telling and Analogies 225  Uses personnel experiences to build conn ections and provide explanations by using engineering and non-engineering stories and analogies.  For example creates analogies from histor ical events, everyday experiences and \223life lessons\224 to better explain concepts and ideas to others 225  Shares experiences and \223lessons learned\224 with others to support future systems design Is Comfortable with Making Decisions 225  Makes decisions in a confident and timely manner when appropriate \226 with or without complete or optimal information \226 allowing team members to maintain forward progress on their assigned tasks 225  Carefully monitors the impact of deci sions on system performance, backtracking and changing direction if necessary.  When the team's forward progress is not at stake, the SE may choose to postpone decision-making and engage in more detailed analysis 225  Stays on point until ideas are heard, rec ognizes when enough data is gathered to make a decision, and then moves on. Willing to revisit decision if new data warrants it 225  Makes difficult or unpopular decisions, keeping the best interest of the system in mind, weighing the potential risks to team cohesion and interpersonal relationships against system performance  Table 9 Problem Solving and Systems Thi nking Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Identifies the Real Problem 225  Identifies the critical problem to be solved by asking questions and identifying the key requirements 225  Recognizes what is technically right among many good ideas by viewing a problem across system boundaries and co mparing each design to the other 225  Frames the problem in a logical way and identifies resources required to solve the problem efficiently 225  Solves problems with the team by listening for the issue, pinpoints problem areas makes recommendations, and then steps out.  Avoids side trips and unnecessary minutiae and focuses on important issues Assimilates Analyzes, and Synthesizes Data 225  Assimilates and distills large quantities of data and ensures all of the data is on the table to solve a problem or make a decision.  Ensures decisions made are supported with data 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters, prioritizes the parameters, then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution 225  Has the ability to rapidly recall data 225  Approaches and solves problems in a systematic manner by using tools processes, procedures in order to find solutions Thinks Systemically 225  Looks across the entire system and facilita tes trades and compromises to get a balanced design.  Ensures that the integrity of the system as a whole does not suffer because of over optimizing any of the smaller pieces 225  Sees multi-view representations of sy stems to understand how the pieces fit together and interact. Visualizes systems in 3-D. Draws a picture in his or her mind, or on paper 225  Is able to look deep enough into a problem without losing focus on the big picture.  Sees the big picture while at the same time demonstrating an overall awareness of the details 225  Breaks the problem down into smaller manageable parts 225  Understands how the system works, what it was designed to do, its functions and 


  14 requirements. Is able to analyze the systems data. Traces implications of a problem in a step-by-step manner across the system Has the Ability to Find Connections and Patterns Across the System 225  Integrates and provides a connection between the various engineering segments of the project.  Is able to identify c onnections from separate elements of the project that others would not notice and brings these connections to the team's attention as a means to assist in solving underlying issues 225  Examines and explores the implications of how technical decisions being made affect the bigger system architecture Sees the ripple effect of changing requirements or making changes to any element of the system 225  Able to see system interfaces. Identifie s the impact that changes to one subsystem are having--or might have--on other sub-systems.  Locates and corrects sub-system 'disconnects' or 'inconsistencies' that are having a negative impact on system performance Sets Priorities 225  Sets technical priorities in order to maintain the balance for the problems at hand while achieving system requirements Keeps the Focus on Mission Requirements 225  Is focused on developing a system that meets the end-item product objectives and does not lose sight of this while integr ating the pieces of the system into the whole system 225  Studies, understands, and articulates the project\222s overall objectives.  Knows what the system must do and be in order to accomplish its objectives 225  Sets technical priorities with principal investigator and subsystem engineers to achieve system requirements Possesses Creativity and Problem Solving Abilities 225  Enjoys and is energized by fully concentrating on a problem for long stretches until solutions are formed and implemented. Possesses passion for problem solving 225  Takes the initiative to solve the problems 225  Solves problems with the team by listening to the issues, pinpointing problem areas, making technical recommendations; may help implement the solution 225  Does not adhere to rigid rules or formulas for system design, but may create new ideas and approaches that are necessary to deal successfully with system constraints Validates Facts Information and Assumptions 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters.  Prioritizes the parameters then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution by examin ing system and subsystem operations in minute detail.  Recognizing that seemingly minor miscalculations can lead to signifi cant problems in system performance 225  Questions all assumptions that go into the design 225  Looks for, and anticipates, problems or issu es in the system in places that may not be covered with the right kind of data to make a decision 225  Looks for answers that may not be readily apparent from just looking at the data alone.  Does not rely solely on data Remains Open Minded and Objective 225  Receptive to hearing diverse varying opinions.  Is willi ng to re-think/re-work an issue or to change direction when new information or a better idea is presented 225  Evaluates decisions objectively.  Maintains flexibility by avoiding 'ownership' of a particular strategy or point of view Draws on Past Experiences 225  Draws from his or her hands-on experiences to develop the proper feel for succeeding on future projects, knowing when something looks "ri ght" versus "not even close\223 from past successes and failures 225  Solves problems with a balance of innovative developments and proven heritage products.  May rely on experience and ex isting design as guides, but sees each opportunity as a canvas to design new solutions 225  Uses experience, history, intuition, and se nsing in order to assess the situation and develop a solution Manages Risk 225  Uses past experiences to anticipate pot ential problems that may impact system performance 225  Identifies the key indicators and methods of testing for each type of problem 


  15 225  Develops mitigation strategi es for addressing the problems, should they arise 225  Is risk savvy. Understands that risk is perpetual and needs to be managed  Table 10 Technical Acumen Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Possesses Technical Competence and Has Comprehensive Previous Experience 225  Shares his or her project experience, a nd acts as a reliable resource to the team and serves as the \221go to\222 person 225  Demonstrates the depth of technical knowledge and expertise necessary to perform, manage, and coordinate work-related activities 225  Possesses a strong, fundamental understanding of engineering principles along with a cross-disciplinary background 225  Engages specialists for their t echnical knowledge and abilities 225  Demonstrates ability to focus on details while keeping the big picture in mind.  Is able to shift focus between the two with ease 225  Uses an iterative process to refine the design to accomplish the system requirements Learns from Successes and Failures 225  Shares with others lessons learned.  Lessons come from a strong base of engineering experiences acr oss the full life-cycle 225  Documents and studies the successes and failures of both the current and previously developed systems.  Uses this information to make decisions that reduce risk and maximize the probability of success 225  Is willing to learn from past failures as well as successes.  Understands both are important  


  16 Table 11 Myers-Briggs Type Indicator \(MBTI Mental Processes and Orientations [25 Natural energy orientation   Extraverted \(E Face is directed towards the OUTER world of activities, excitements, people, and things 200  Instinctively search for facts and logic in a decision situation 200  Act first, think/reflect later 200  Feel deprived when cutoff from interaction with the outside world 200  Usually open to and motivated by outside world of people and things 200  Enjoy wide variety and change in people relationships Intraverted \(I Face is directed inward to the INNER world of thoughts, interests, ideas, and imagination 200  Think/reflect first, then act 200  Regularly require an amount of "private time" to recharge batteries 200  Motivated internally, mind is sometimes so active it is "closed" to outside world 200  Prefer one-to-one communication and relationships Way of perceiving or understanding and taking in information  Sensing \(S The Sensing side of our brain notices the sights sounds, smells and all the sensory details of the PRESENT It categorizes, organizes, records and stores the specifics from the here and now. It is REALITY based, dealing with "what is." It also provides the specific details of memory and recollections from PAST events 200  Mentally live in the Now, attending to present opportunities 200  Using common sense and creating practical solutions is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall is rich in detail of facts and past events 200  Best improvise from past experience 200  Like clear and concrete information; dislike guessing when facts are "fuzzy Intuitive \(N The Intuitive side of our brain seeks to understand interpret and form OVERALL patterns of all the information that is collected and records these patterns and relationships. It speculates on POSSIBILITIES  including looking into and forecasting the FUTURE  It is imaginative and conceptual 200  Mentally live in the Future, attending to future possibilities 200  Using imagination and creating/inventing new possibilities is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall emphasizes patterns, contexts and connections 200  Best improvise from theoretical understanding 200  Comfortable with ambiguous, fuzzy data and with guessing its meaning Way of forming judgments and making choices and decisions  Thinking \(T The Thinking side of our brain analyzes information in a DETACHED objective fashion. It operates from factual principles, deduces and forms conclusions systematically. It is our logical nature  200  Naturally notices tasks and work to be accomplished 200  Easily able to provide an objective and critical analysis 200  Accept conflict as a natural, normal part of relationships with people Feeling \(F The Feeling side of our brain forms conclusions in an ATTACHED and somewhat global manner, based on likes/dislikes, impact on others, and human and aesthetic values. It is our subjective nature 200  Instinctively employ personal feelings and impact on people in decision situations 200  Naturally sensitive to people\222s needs and reactions 200  Naturally seek consensus and popular opinions 200  Unsettled by conflict; have almost a toxic reaction to disharmony Action orientation towards the outside world     Judging \(J A Judging style approaches the outside world WITH A PLAN and is oriented towards organizing one's surroundings, being prepared, making decisions and reaching closure and completion 200  Plan many of the details in advance before moving into action 200  Focus on task-related action; complete meaningful segments before moving on 200  Work best and avoid stress when keep ahead of deadlines 200  Naturally use targets, dates and standard routines to manage life Perceiving \(P A Perceiving style takes the outside world AS IT COMES and is adopting and adapting, flexible, openended and receptive to new opportunities and changing game plans 200  Comfortable moving into action without a plan plan on-the-go 200  Like to multitask, have variety, mix work and play 200  Naturally tolerant of time pressure; work best close to the deadlines 200  Instinctively avoid commitments which interfere with flexibility, freedom and variety 


  17 Figure 1 MBTI Types Occurring in SEs Studied Across the Agency                                    Figure 2 Preliminary MBTI Results for JPL\222s Highly Regarded Systems E\ngineers   ESFP Performer/Entertainer   ESTP Maneuverer/Promoter   ENTP Inventor/Improvisor    ENTJ Director/Commandant   ISFP Performer/Composer   ISTP Maneuverer/Operator  INTP Inventor/Designer   INTJ Foreseer/Mobilizer   ESFJ Provider/Caretaker   ESTJ Overseer/Supervisor   ENFP Proponent/Messenger   ENFJ Foreseer/Mobilizer  ISFJ Provider/Nourisher   ISTJ Overseer/Inspector   INFP Proponent/Advocate  INFJ Foreseer/Developer NF 3 NT 56 SJ 15 SP 26 SE MBTI types represented across the agency 


Investigator with the Ohio University Avionics Engineering Center.  He earned his Ph.D. from Ohio University and holds a B.S.E.E. and M.S.E.E from Delft University of Technology located in the Netherlands.  He has been involved with GPS landing systems  research, advanced signal processing techniques for GPS receivers, GPS/INS integrated systems, and terrain-referenced navigation systems.  The latter includes the development of terrain data base integrity monitors as an enabling technology for Synthetic Vision Systems and autonomous aircraft operation      pre></body></html 


           7 C ur re nt ly n ot w or ki ng 2  0 0 5  0 0 8 0 04 0 04 0 0 1 0 16  0 16             8 C ur re nt ly in e du ca tio n2   0 6 


6 7  0 01 0 1 9 0 08  0 03 0 6 8 0 0 7 0 3 2           9 C ur re nt ly w or ki ng 2  0 2 8  0 03 0 18  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 64  0 00 0 1 4 0 8 9   


        10 E du ca tio n ac hi ev ed 3  3 5 7 1 5 2  0 04 0 02 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 16  0 02 0 1 6 0 13  0 0 6         11 D is pe ns ab le in co m e   


  21 0 9 2 72 7  0 14  0 0 1 0 09  0 08  0 2 0 0 00 0 0 4 0 18  0 1 6 0 0 1        In te rn et u sa ge                     


  12 A ct iv e in te rn et u sa ge 1  0 0 2 0 9 6 0 2 1 0 25  0 11  0 12  0 10  0 0 4 0 05  0 0 8 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 12        13 H ou rs o nl in e h ou rs 


rs   2 6 5 3 0 3  0 04 0 12  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 40  0 0 7 0 0 7 0 4 7 0 5 3 0 07  0 1 1 0 07       14 W illi ng ne ss to p ay 1  1 8 3 0 6 3  0 03 0 10 


10  0 07  0 08  0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 01  0 00 0 0 5 0 14  0 04 0 05      G am e sp ec ifi c va ria bl es                      15 T en 


ur e w ee ks   2 8 2 3 5 2 0 2 6 0 31  0 0 9 0 01 0 12  0 0 4 0 02 0 0 9 0 0 9 0 07  0 02 0 13  0 08  0 0 4    16 C ro ss o ve r on o ffl in e 4  0 1 5 


5 1 1 1 0 1 9 0 11  0 13  0 18  0 2 0 0 1 4 0 0 7 0 14  0 1 1 0 0 4 0 08  0 15  0 0 5 0 01 0 07    17 S at is fa ct io n1   18 7 5 1 3 16  0 18  0 00 


00 0 44  0 52  0 1 4 0 0 3 0 02 0 07  0 0 9 0 1 4 0 10  0 08  0 0 6 0 09  0 0 1 0 13   18 C om m itm en t1  0 6 2 0 8 3 0 3 1 0 13  0 37  0 39  0 0 7 


7 0 0 6 0 02 0 03  0 0 4 0 1 3 0 14  0 17  0 0 5 0 09  0 07  0 19  0 58  S ou rc e O w n ca lc ul at io n N ot e N  1 3 89 o bs er va tio ns S ig ni fic an ce le ve ls 


ls  p  0 05 S D  S ta nd ar d de vi at io n 1 5 po in t L ik er t s ca le ra ng in g fro m 2 to 2  2 du m m y va ria bl e 3 o rd in al v ar ia bl e ra ng in g fro m v oc at io na l e du ca 


tio n to P h D 4 n um be r o f c on ta ct s   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


