html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Geo-event  association rule discovery model based on rough set with marine fishery application Fenzhen Su   Chenghu Zhou MGIS Center, LREIS Institute of Geography Sciences and Natural Resources Research, CAS Beijing,China sufz@lreis.ac.cn Wenzhoung Shi Department of Land-Surveying and Geo-Informatics The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Hong Kong,China lswzshi@polyu.edu.hk   Abstract  Vector-based association rule discovery models have been provided to look for spatial knowledge in terrestrial applications recently. Most of them just consider the attribution relationship of local space or the topological relationship between parcels or objects. And they are difficulty to consider the temporal change, distance relationship or direction relationship In this presentation, an geo-event association rule discovery model\(GEARDM spatiotemporal grid and rough set, and the experiment in marine fishery application is provided in support of the model. In GEARDM, the continuous spatiotemporal process is discretized by fuzzy pre-knowledge as spatiotemporal assignment and will be assigned into a decision table. The mining algorithm based on rough set results from the decision table in the geo-event association rules, which shows what kind of pattern of spatiotemporal assignment of environmental factors determine the happen or attribution of the geo_events. After the mined rules being analyzed by knowledge, the refined knowledge is obtained and the spatiotemporal assignment will be renewed Then the flow of GEARDM feeds back to the phase of discretization and iterates until the final rules are reasonable These knowledge-based rules also can be used in the expert system to predict the happen or the scale of geo-event as the experiments show Keywords- Spatial data mining?Spatiotemporal association rule, MGIS, rough set, Marine Fishery  I. INTRODUCTION In the early, association rule was provided and used to look for the association rule among items in business database Agrawal, 1993; Fayyad, 1996 domain \(Lu et al, 1993; Han, 1996 mined from the environmental database, it can be divided into three categories, spatial characteristic rule, spatial discriminating rule and spatial association rule. For example city, on coastline citizen, high income association The characteristic or discriminating rule is generalized from the nonspatial attributions, which associate the spatial position Lu et al,1993; Han and Fu 1996 The third kind of rule focuses on the dependency between attributions of one parcel and other parcels, which have topologic relationship \(Koperski, 1996 complex when judging the topologic relationship through the vector database and the data type of the attribution in these models has to be limited as category. Except the topologic relationship, it is difficulty to take other spatial relationships into account, i.e. spatial position, spatial distance relationship spatial direction relationship, and the relative value of attribution. And it is based on the spatial status, which will not be changed with time and has the static topologic relationship Additionally, it is based on the terrestrial application, in which the land can be usually divided as parcels by determinate boundaries.  But in the environment research, the continue field also is important research content, especially in meteorology 


also is important research content, especially in meteorology and oceanography. \(Miller and Han,2001 Once some attributions at a position or in an area get their values at one time, we may say a geographic event \(geo-event happens. Besides the local attributions, geo-event often depends on the condition around the position Ester,1999;Miller,2000 attribution, the position of the objects, topological relationship spatial distance relationship, spatial direction relationship and the attribution value with the relative values among these objects. We define this condition as spatiotemporal assignment Su et al, 2001 spatiotemporal assignment will change with time In the recent years, the oceanography and marine fishery has been benefiting from GIS technology and also the GIS has been benefiting from oceanography and marine fishery \(Wright and Goodchild, 1997; Meaden, 2000 based spatial model has not been integrated with marine till now In this work, we developed the Geo-event Association Rule Discovery Model\(GEARDM spatiotemporal assignment, and finished an experiment for marine fishery. The continuous spatiotemporal process will be discretized as spatiotemporal assignment and will be assigned into a decision table. From the table, the geo-event association rule will be mined by the algorithm, which base on the  rough set. These rules also can be used in the expert system to predict the happen or the scale of geo-event as the experiments show Sponsors:2003AA604040/637030; 2002AA639400; 1.34.9709; 3-ZB40 0-7803-8742-2/04/$20.00 \(C II. GEARDM In this section, we will describe the flow to set up the GEARDM \(figure 1 Firstly, the spatiotemporal process will be discretized as a time serial of space state or geo-event. Secondly, according to the pre-knowledge, a neighborhood will be constructed to obtain the parameter of each geo-event and a decision table will be filled, which can describe the serial of geo-event. Then some original rules will be mined from the table by the method of rough set. Finally, some real rules will be chosen from these original rules by analysis with knowledge. All these steps can feed back. For example, after analyzing the original rules, we get new knowledge, we can re-constructe the neighborhood to obtain more suitable parameter of geo-event to mine more reasonable rules The detail technology will be described as follows 2.1. Spatiotemporal assignment In order to express the spatial assignment, we divide the 2dimension space as grid. And set the cell in which the geoevent happens as focus. According to the qualitative or fuzzy knowledge, some factors in some areas or points around focus will affect the happen of the geo-event. These areas or points are defined as neighbor. The focus with the neighbor make up of the neighborhood The shape of neighborhoods can be a rectangle, a circle, an annulus or a slice of a circle. According to different geo-events or different themes in a same geo-event, the neighborhood may be defined as different shape, director with distance or resolution 2.2. Describing the geo-event association rule Definition: A geo-event association rule contains in the form of X?Y    X?I, Y?I,  X?Y Where X or Y is an associated event, or X and Y compose one associated geo-event. I={i1, i2  im} denotes the attribution aggregate of X and Y, item im denotes one of the attributions of spatiotemporal assignment, which may be the temporal attributions, or the attributions to describe spatial topological relationships, spatial distance relationships, spatial direction relationships, nonspatial attributions or their relative values. X or Y is a subset of I and X or Y is a sub-event of I. For presentation easily, we also call X and Y as geo-event. Once 


presentation easily, we also call X and Y as geo-event. Once the attribution aggregate of I gets its value, we call it one realization of an associated geo-event \(GE identify it. The aggregate of GE will be arranged as a geoevent table. The formula of \(1 result in geo-event Y 2.3. From geo-event to decision table In order to reduce the rule for geo-event, a decision table should be constructed. According to the definition above, one record in the table includes the attributions of X and that of Y It means that one record is an geo-event with its attributions 2.4.  Discretization for the numeric attribution In general, if attribute is numeric value and its domain of values is large, it will enlarge the search time and make the rule mined too thin to be ignored. So it should be partitioned into different intervals firstly, then it can be mapped each \(attribute interval two algorithms above.  For example, the domain of value of A is [l, r]. The domain can be divided into ranges [lk, rk] and \(A value A, K 2.5. Mining algorithm In this presentation, we adopt the algorithm which based on rough set for it can find firstly the most important factor In section 2.3, the geo-event has been transformed to the decision table. The decision table describes a subset of the reality world, which includes some geo-events. Let the aggregation of geo-events as U, the condition attributions as C and the decision attributions as D. let C?D =A. That means A denotes the attribution set.  The table can be identified as \(U C?D, V, f function f: U?C ? D ? V defines the value of the spatiotemporal assignment If B ? A, there is a related duality relationship, i.e indiscernibility relation, as following IND \(B x, y x y That means the attribution set B cannot distinguish some geo-events, such as x and y.   a \(x y of attribution a is the same for geo-event x and y For example, there is a reality world k={U, {p, q, r where U =={x1, x2, x3, x4, x5, x6, x7, x8}, IND \(p Spatiotemporal process Serial of spatial state of event Pre-knowledge Neighborhood Decision table Final rule set Original rule set Spatial discretization Temporal discretization Parameter obtaining Reduced with Rough Set Analysis by knowledge Fig.1. Flow chart of GEARDM 0-7803-8742-2/04/$20.00 \(C x5} , {x2, x4, x8}, {x3, x7}, {x6}}, IND \(q x3}, {x4, x6, x8}}, IND\(r x4, x8}}, that means [X1] p={x1, x5} , [X1] q ={x1, x2, x5 x7 if R={p, q}, then IND\(R x6}, {x7}} and [X1]R={x1, x5}. Here x1 and x5 is indiscernibility relation depending on R If there is a category X, X? U and X??, R can divide the U as Xi, i=1, 2  n, where Xi ? Xj= ?. Xi  is called as Rbasic set. R-basic set can be used to describe the category X as R-lower, R-upper approximation and R-boundary region of X R_\(X  R-- \(X  BND \(X X X In order to extract the core spatiotemporal assignment which decides the happen of geo-event, we should apply some concepts below If a ?A, and IND \(A A- {a a is dispensable in A. Otherwise it is indispensable. If each 


a is dispensable in A. Otherwise it is indispensable. If each attribution or their composing is indispensable, we say A is independent. Otherwise A is dependency Further more, if B? C, where C is the condition attribution set, we say that D depends on B in a degree k \(0?k?1 k=?B\(D POSB\(D U Where POSB\(D X D region of the partition IND \(D all geo-events that can be uniquely classified to blocks of the partition IND \(D U table The rough set can be used to search the indispensable attribution in the spatiotemporal assignment. Then the model can continue to find the more item sets, such as 2-item sets, 3item sets and so on, till the value of k is larger than a certain value III. EXPERIMENT In this section we will try to find the rule which could show what kind of pattern of sea surface temperature will make the fish assembling 3.1Research area and the data The study area \(fig.2 Yellow Sea. This model will be used to study why and when the fishing ground will come into being. Firstly the area is discretized as grid cells \(fig.2 corner points identified by T1,T2  T9. When the catch per net is larger than 500 boxes, we look this position as fishing ground or fish assembling As figure 2 shows, we set the cell of T6T7TaTb as the focus cell and set the positions of T1, T2  T9.Tg as its neighborhood. We extract the temperature structure of the neighborhood and the fish density at the focus cell as table1 where 8801 denotes the first week in the year of 1988. T1 T2  Tf, Tg denotes the temperature at the position. Tg-T1, TgT2  Td-T3, Td-T4 is the relative value of SST between each other. Density is the catch per net in the focus cell. According to the fuzzy pri-knowledge that the fish assembling relates to the grads of temperature in the direction of northwest and in order to show the computing process clear, we only select the Tg-T1 among the relative values of SST The SST is derived from NOAA image and the pelagic fish density is calculated by fishing catch data. Let temperature as condition attributes and density as decision attribute TABLE 1.  FISHING GROUND IN THE SPECIAL FISHING CELL ID Week T1 T6 T7 tb ta Tg Tgt1 Density 888 8801 11.5 14.2 14.1 17 15.1 18 6.5 0 888 8901 11.7 11.2 12.1 12.3 11.3 13.8 2.1 4170 888 9001 13.3 14 12 15 14.7 16 2.7 1275 888 9101 13 13.1 13 13.8 14.8 15 2.0 2650 888 9201 14.2 13.7 13.7 14.3 14.6 15.2 1 0 888 9301 13 13.9 12.9 14 14 17 4 1112 888 9401 12.3 14.8 15 14 13.4 17.1 4.8 740 888 9501 12.5 12.7 12.3 13 14 16.4 3.9 0 888 9601 12.7 12.6 11.6 13.5 13.1 14.6 1.9 0 888 9701 11.5 13 13.9 13.9 11.7 16.5 5 0  3.2 Appling the GEARDM For the model in this presentation, we partitioned the values into intervals as following and table2 is constructed Intervals for temperature: A: ~12.9; B: 13.0~15.0; C: 15.1 Intervals for the density: Yes: density &gt;500 boxes/net; No density&lt;=500 boxes/casting Ta T9 Tb Td Tc SST point Target cell Legend 


Legend T1 Figure2. The neighbourhood definition Te Tf Tg T2 T1 T3 T5 T4 T6 T7 T8 31  N 32  N 33  N 34  N 35  N 36  N 122  E 124  E 126  E 0-7803-8742-2/04/$20.00 \(C Intervals for the relative temperature: Y: Tg-T1 &gt;=2; N Tg-T1 &lt; 2 TABLE 2.  DISCRETE VALUE IN FISHING CELL NO.888 ID Week t1 T6 T7 tb ta tg Tg-t1 Density 888 8801 A B B c c c Y No 888 8901 A A A a a b Y Yes 888 9001 B B A b b c Y Yes 888 9101 B B B b b b Y Yes 888 9201 B B B b b c N No 888 9301 B B A b b c Y Yes 888 9401 A B B b b c Y Yes 888 9501 A A A b b c N No 888 9601 A A A b b b Y No 888 9701 A B B b a c Y No  Each record in the decision is a geo-event, which has the property of spatiotemporal assignment, i.e. t1, t6, T7, Tb, Ta Tg, Tg-T1, density. We name the geo-events as e1, e2, e3, e4 e5, e6, e7, e8, e9, e10. Set C={t1  t7} as condition attributions, density as decision attribution, i.e. D={Density Using the method of rough set to search the rule, the best rule has been mined as following ID, 888 WEEK, 1 T6, b Ta, b Density, Yes The result shows the density depends on the {ta?t6?tgt1} in a degree 100%. That means, for the target cell in the first week, there will be a fishing ground if the temperature of its left-upper position point lies in the range of 13?15  C and that of its left-lower is in the range of 13?15  C and there is a special difference of temperature in the direction of southeastnorthwest. The difference of temperature in the direction of southeast-northwest makes the fish concentrate in a relative small area then the density of fish is high IV. CONCLUSION The model is based on the discretization of geo-event which makes it convenient to take the time, location, topologic relation, direction relation, distance relation, and attribution value with the relative value. That means it can reveal the spatiotemporal assignment that makes the geo-event happen The calculation of the model is relative simple and can be realized easily. The reduce method of rough set can find the dependency between the condition attributions and the decision attribution What the data type of previous association rule model is category. This model can process all data types in scalar, for example, nominal, ordinal, interval, and ratio. For the vector field, it may be expressed as two scalar fields. One identifies its value. Another denotes the direction. If so, it can be regarded as two themes in the model The model based on grid is suitable for the temporal change frequently and is suitable to process the continue field with the fuzzy boundary, especially in the Oceanography and the Meteorology. And it can use the data directly in the model which derived from the Remote Sensing with the grid format natively 


The experiment shows that this model can refine the priknowledge, which is fuzzy or uncertain ACKNOWLEDGMENT The Authors would like to deeply thank Prof. Quanqin Shao for her some advices on setting up the database. We would also like to extend our gratitude to Prof. Shixin Han prof. Yanhong Cheng and Dr Wei Fan for providing the fishery knowledge and data REFERENCES  1] Agrawal, R. and Imielinski,T.,1993, A Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases [A], Proc of ACM SIGMOD, 1993: 207?216 2] Ester M., Kriegel, H.P.,and Sander J.,1999. Knowledge Discovery in Spatial Databases. 23rd German Conf. On Artificial Intelligence\(KI  99 3] Fayyad,U. M., Piatetsky-Shapiro G.,and P Smyth., 1996, From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery: An Overview [A]. In Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, edited by U.M.Fayyad, G Piatetsky-Shapiro, P. Smyth,and R. U. Uthurusamy\(AAAI/MIT Press 4] HAN J and Fu, Y., 1996, Exploration of the power of attribute-oriented induction in data mining. In Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, edited by U.M.Fayyad, G. Piatetsky-Shapiro, P. Smyth and R. Authurusamy, \( Menlo Park, CA: AAAI/MIT Press 5] Koperski K. and Han J.,1996?Discovery of Spatial Association Rules in Geographic Information Databases. In Advances in Spatial Databases Proceedings of 4th Symposium, SSD  95. \(Aug. 6-9, Portland, Maine Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1995, pp. 47  66 6] Lu, W., Han, J., and Ooi, B. C. Discovery of General Knowledge in Large Spatial Databases [A]. In Proceedings of Far East Workshop on Geographic Information Systems. Singapore: World Scientific. 1993 275-289 7] Meaden,G.J., 2000, Application of GIS to fisheries management. In Marine and Coastal Geographical Information System, edited by D.J.Wright and D. J. Bartlett \(Londo: Taylor&amp; Francis 8] Miller, H.J. and Han, J., 2001, Geographic data mining and Knowledge discovery: An overview. In Geographic data mining and knowledge discovery, edited by Harvey J.Miller and Jiawei Han\(London and New York:Taylor&amp;Grancis 9] Su Fenzhen, 2001, Spatiotemporal Analysis for Marine Fishery Resources. \(Ph.D., Chinese Academy of Science, Beijing 10] Fenzhen Su, Chenghu Zhou,Vincent Lyne, Yunyan Du ,Wenzhong Shi A data mining approach to determine the spatio-temporal relationship between environmental factors and fish distribution. Ecological Modelling. 174 \(2004  431 11] Wright, D.J. and Goodchild, M.F.1997. Data form the deep Implications for the GIS Community. The International Journal of Geographical Information Science, 11\(6  0-7803-8742-2/04/$20.00 \(C pre></body></html 


        


     


nature of a k-ary predicate is a k-tuple of types. The signature of a k-ary function is a k + 1-tuple of types involving the types of the parameters and the result of the function. The set of terms of the language is the smallest set that contains the atomic constants and variables, and it is closed under the application of functions. Simple formulae consist of predicates applied to terms and formulae are combinations of atomic formulae through the combination of the connectives   and the quanti?ers Functions and Predicates. Functions and predicates are quite important in the PBMS setting, since the approximation of the data to patterns mapping, usually needs complex functions to be expressed. Functions and predicates can possibly appear both in the formula ?eld and in queries, associating relation names with the pattern structure. We believe that having interpreted functions is the best approach for the PBMS since we would like the formula to be informative to the user and we would like to be able to reason on it Safety andRangeRestriction. The formula is a predicate that we would ideally like to be true for all the data that are mapped to a pattern. Notice that the formula by itself does not contain a logical expression involving the pattern structure schema and the data schema i.e., it is not a query on the relations of the raw data The formula is merely a predicate to be used in queries We would like for example to use it in queries that navigate between the data and the pattern space like the following x | fp\(x where fp is a formula predicate and R is a relation appearing in the Data component. We require that fp is de?ned in such a way that we can construct queries like the previous, which are  safe  Safety is considered in terms of domain independence. Still, we cannot adopt the classical notion of domain independence \(which restricts values to the active domain of the database since even the simple functions can create new values not belonging to the domain of the database fore, we should consider a broader sense of domain independence similar to the one presented in [5, 17, 8 which allows the ?nite application of functions. For example, the n-depth domain independence as suggested in [5] considers domain independence with respect to the active domain closed under n application of functions. This includes the active domain and all the values that can be produced by applying the database functions n times, where n some ?nite integer The easiest way to ensure safety in these terms is to range restrict all variables appearing in a query. To this end, we introduce the where keyword in the formula which facilitates the mapping of the formula predicate free variables to the relation schema that appears in the DataSchema or Data component. More speci?Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE cally, we require that there are no free variables in the fp that are not mapped to the relation of the Data component by the use of thewhere keyword. This restriction guarantees that all the variables appearing in fp are either range restricted or that the system knows how to range restrict them to a ?nite set of values when fp is used in a query Now we can formally de?ne the well-formed formula for the pattern-type De?nition 13 A pattern type formula is of the form fp\(dv, pv 1 where fp \(formula predicate variable names mapped by the where keyword to the rela 


variable names mapped by the where keyword to the relation in DataSchema and pv are variable names that appear in the StructureSchema At instantiation time pv is assigned values of the Structure component and dv is mapped to the relation appearing in Data component. The de?nition for the pattern well-formed formula is now straightforward De?nition 14 A pattern formula is of the form fp\(dv 2 where fp \(formula predicate variablesmapped by thewhere keyword to the relation appearing in Data component From the previous de?nitions the semantics of the where keyword become evident: we impose that the variables of the formula will take values from speci?c relations when the formula predicate is employed in queries Example 2 Let us consider the following formulas 1. f\(x x 2. f\(g\(x x In the ?rst formula variable x is mapped to R using the where keyword, thus the formula is well formed. Keep in mind that the formula predicate by itself is just the part f\(x is not well-formed since y is not mapped via where to any relation, or otherwise range restricted 5. Querying the Pattern Warehouse We de?ne queries to be posed over the pattern warehouse and not individually over its data- or patternbase components. Through this approach, we are able to sustain queries traversing from the pattern to the data space and vice-versa. At the same time, the consistency of the results is guaranteed by the pattern-data mapping De?nition 15 Let PW the set of all possible Pattern Warehouses. A query is a function with signature PW ? PW. Given a query q and a pattern warehouse pw = \(DB,PB D?B, P?B q\(pw DB?, PB   P?B? = ?[D?1, ..., D?m], [P?C1:PT1]?. We assume that tr, tp\(tr ? R1 ? tp ? PC1 tr, tp Note that, similarly to the relational case, the result of a query is always a pattern warehouse containing just one relation and one pattern class. It is also important to point out that, in practice, even if a query always involve both the data and pattern space, operations over patterns are executed in isolation, locally at the PBMS. The reference to the underlying data is activated only on-demand \(whenever the user speci?cally requests so stored intermediate mappings or the formula approximation 5.1. Query operators In this section we introduce query operators that allow basic queries over the the PW . Assuming that DB denotes the set of all possible database instances and PB the set of all possible pattern bases, we consider the following groups of operators  Database operators: they can be applied locally to the DBMS. op : DB ? DB. We denote the set of database operators with OD  Pattern base operators: they can be applied locally to the PBMS. op : PB ? PB. We denote the set of database operators with OP  Cross-over database operators: they involve evaluation on both the DBMS and the PBMS, the result is a database. op : DB  PB ? DB. We denote the set of database operators with OCD  Cross-over pattern base operators: they involve evaluation on both the DBMS and the PBMS, the 


evaluation on both the DBMS and the PBMS, the result is a pattern base. op : DB  PB ? PB. We denote the set of database operators with OCP In the following, we present examples of the last three classes of operators \(database operators coincide with usual relational operators operators, we introduce some examples of predicates de?ned over patterns Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE 5.1.1. Pattern predicates We identify two main classes of atomic predicates: predicates over patterns and predicates over pattern components. From those atomic predicates we can then construct complex predicates. In the following, we denote pattern components by using the dot notation. For example, the measure component of a pattern p is denoted by p.Measure Predicates over pattern components. They check properties of speci?c pattern components. Let p1 and p2 be two patterns, possibly selected by some queries. The general form of a predicate over pattern components is t1?t2, where t1 and t2 are path expressions that must de?ne components of patterns p1 and p2, of compatible type and ? must be an operator, de?ned for the type of t1 and t2. For example, if t1 and t2 are integer expressions, then ? can be a disequality operator e.g. one of &lt;,&gt cases  If t1 and t2 are pattern data for patterns p1 and p2, then ? ? {=,?}. t1 = t2 is true if and only if x x ?? p1 ? x ?? p2 and t1 ? t2 is true if and only if ?x x ?? p1 ? x ?? p2  If t1 and t2 are pattern formulas for patterns p1 a n d  p 2   t h e n             t 1    t 2  i s  t r u e  i f  a n d o n l y  i f  t 1    t 2  a n d  t 1    t 2  i s  t r u e  i f  a n d  o n l y  i f  t 1 logically implies t2 Predicates over patterns. We consider the following set of predicates  Identity if they have the same PID, i.e. p1.P ID = p2.P ID  Shallow equality \(=s are shallow equal if their corresponding components \(except for the PID component i.e. p1.Structure = p2.Structure, p1.Source p2.Source, p1.Measure = p2.Measure, and p1.formula = p2.formula. Note that, to check the equality for each component pair, the basic equality operator for the speci?c component type is used  Deep equality \(=d deep equal if their corresponding data are identical, i.e., ?x x ?? p1 ? x ?? p2   S u b s u m p t i o n       A  p a t t e r n  p 1  s u b s u m e s  a  p a t t e r n  p 2   p 1    p 2   i f  t h e y  h a v e  t h e  s a m e  s t r u c ture but p2 represents a smaller set of raw data i.e. p1.Structure = p2.Structure, p1.Source p 2  S o u r c e  a n d  p 1  f o r m u l a    p 2  f o r m u l a  Complex predicates. They are de?ned by applying usual logical connectives to atomic predicates. Thus, if F1 and F2 are predicates, then F1 ? F2,F1 ? F2  F1 are predicates. We make a closed world assumption, thus the calculation of  F is always ?nite 5.1.2. Pattern base operators OP In this subsection, we introduce several operators de?ned over patterns. Some of them, like set-based operators, renaming and selection are quite close to their relational counterparts; nevertheless, some others, like join and projection have signi?cant di?erences Set-based operators. Since classes are sets, usual operators such as union, di?erence and intersection are de 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


