The Modern Approach to Planning and Implementation of Enterprise Data Warehouse M L EVCHENKO V.G OPEYENKO Information Systems Management Institute Department of Natural Sciences and Computer Technologies Ludzas 91, LV-1003, Riga, Latvia e-mail maksims.email@gmail.com  viktors.gopejenko@isma.lv Abstract  Nowadays the importance of information exchange, accumulation and processing is increasing in modern business. It is hard to imagine a big company not having tens, hundreds or even thousands terabytes of accumulated data. The serv er systems of the large multinational corporations de mand significant costs to maintain and apply the huge amounts of the accumulated data. How these amounts of data are formed, are they really necessary, and how can th ey be disposed? Sooner or later any company’s manageme nt faces these questions because the storage of information requires certain expenses, which increase depending on the growing amount of data Keywords OLTP \(online transaction processing DWH \(data warehouse\, BI \(business intelligence\ data mining, systems analyst DSS decision support system OLAP \(online analytical processing\ ROLAP \(relational multidimensional online analytical processing SQL \(structured query language\BI \(OBI  Microsoft SQL Server I NTRODUCTION To answer these questions it is essential to understand the nature of information and its content. Everything is simple concerning emails, working papers and files: if they are relevant and valuable, they are stored, otherwise they are deleted. In turn, OLTP \(online transaction processing\ystems contain data on completed transactions and directories necessary for the formation of these transactions. From the point of view of OLTP system the concept of transaction includes any information, generated by any system used by an enterprise for its daily activ ities. As an example we can consider the situation with the sale of wares in a shop. The system captures the information on each item of goods passing through checkout counter. Thus, the huge amount of transactions is recorded in OLTP data storage, which accumulates information from all the supermarkets of the chain. Having clarified the source of the formation of data, it is necessary to consider its content. As a rule, initially any sale contains the minimum of information which is useful for analysts. For example, such minimum information may be: the date and the place of purchase, the name of the product, the amount of the sale and tax, the number of wares sold Having minimum information, it is worth considering how beneficial its systematization and processing can be. A quite serious analytical system can be designed on the base of the aforementioned example. This analytical system could reflect the dynamics of sales concerning the items of wares compare the current amounts of sales with the amounts of sales of the previous periods, calculate the average purchase amount, the amount of tax paid, and other useful information In practice, the OLTP systems of big enterprises store much more useful information, which lets monitoring warehouse stocks, logistics, perform fina ncial analysis and accounting develop marketing activities, etc M ETHODS The data is transformed in information after its representation in ordered, comprehended and focused on BI business intelligence\form As a rule, in the majority of the organisations, there are several different groups of users that need various representation of the information. Report readers prefer to receive answers to the questions in the form of the same report that is well familiar to them. Their approaches to the analysis and to the information requirements are usually the same Usually the individual help is required to this group of users to start work. The other group of users which can be defined as information browsers needs a little bit longer training to developm the means to work with data, however having the corresponding means they are able to prepare simple reports independently Generally they do not require the powerful 978-1-4244-6904-8/10/$26.00 ©2010 IEEE 


   tools for the construction of the reports. Advanced users prefer to build their own queries and re ports. The possibilities of the aggregated values search are important to them, as in this case they may quickly prepare reports without deepening into the details of the data model. Power users constantly put forward new demands for the data stor age. They make considerable impact on all aspects of DWH \(d ata warehouse\vity and aspire to have the information concerning data units. This group is distinguished by the most intense usage of the metadata repository and is the most interested in data mining One of the errors made by the developers of many DWH projects is an attempt to select the only software as a standard to all users. Usually it is better to select several instruments for different DWH users. As a result, the price of these programs will be significantly lower than time costs of system analysts The means of data access might also be concerned to various groups. These might be the general purpose means to manipulate the multidimensional data arrays or more complex DSS \(decision support system mining means are used to find the regularities in data. Data visualization means represent data in such a way, that will help to reveal these regularities Applications that use data from DWH and represent information to end-users are concerned to the means of OLAP online analytical processing\roup. The main reason of OLAP usage for the query processing is the working speed OLAP creates a DWH relation snapshot and restructures it into multidimensional model for queries. The declared time for query processing in OLAP is approximately 0.1% from similar queries in the relational database. The means that use data from the relational databases are classified as ROLAP relational online analytical processing\struments. ROLAP is an alternative to the MOLAP technology. While both ROLAP and MOLAP analytic tools are designed to allow the analysis of data through the use of a multidimensional data model, ROLAP differs significantly as it does not require the pre-computation and storage of information. Instead, ROLAP tools access the data in a relational database and generate SQL structured query language\eries to calculate information at an appropriate level when the end-user requests it. The access means that use multidimensional databases are concerned to MOLAP \(multidimensional online analytical processing group. MOLAP is an alternative to the ROLAP technology While both MOLAP and ROLAP analytic tools are designed to allow data analysis through the use of multidimensional data model, MOLAP differs significantly as it requires the precomputation and storage of information in the cube To create an analytical system an idea is needed as an integral part of a final product. The correct selection of BI instrument is the other integral part of the successful development of the project. In the modern world various analytical solutions are available from multiple vendors, the most recognized among them are Oracle, Microsoft, SA P, SAS, IBM. Globally they can be divided into off-the shelf solutions \(which are installed on clients servers and adjusted to their needs\pment kits \(which only provide a development environment and make it possible to create custom solutions\I EE Oracle Business Intelligence Enterpise Edition\ve as an example of a off-the-shelf solution, which is necessary to integrate in the existing software environment and to adjust to the requirements of each client. Oracle BI is a business intelligence platform that delivers a full range of analytic and reporting capabilities. Designed for scalability, reliability, and performance, Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition delivers contextual, relevant and actionable insight to everyone in an organization, resulting in improved decision-making better-informed actions, and efficient business processes Microsoft’s SQL Server 2008 \(including SSAS, SSIS SSRS\ be considered as an example of the development instrument, which is a quite powerful tool to create customized solutions. It is a powerful and reliable data management system that delivers a rich set of features, data protection, and performance for embedded application clients, light Web applications, and local data stores It is designed for easy deployment and rapid prototyping The data storage creation is a long-term and quite expensive enterprise. Buying th e data storage, analytical system or any other project, the customer wants to buy not a set of algorithms and ready procedures, but a product that allows minimizing its expenses by optimizing working processes and the quantity of workplaces. Correctly adjusted system is capable to substitute a large number of workers freeing human and financial resources. In such a way we get to the first and, probably, the most important stage in the creation of any system The first stage of any system creation is its projecting The customer will not pay anyone for unnecessary options that do not satisfy his requirements. The system must be carefully planned and organized, thereby responding to the requests of the customer. At this stage a pl an is created that is a logical structure of the system. This plan is coordinated with the customer and sooner or later after a number of long and painful negotiations is approved The next stage is the definition of the necessary configuration of the hardware and software. This stage is also important as without the skil fully chosen hardware and software base the created system will not be stable. As a consequence the periodic unforeseen faults in the system are possible. As a result the custom er will bear losses which might be addressed to the developer of the system. Usually the contracts accompanying such projects clearly specify such nuances Then when everything is approved, we have the action plan; it is time to realize it. At first it is necessary to choose the team of developers, selecting the specialists with appropriate skills. In practice, the necessary number of specialists with certain \(someti mes, specific\ skills is not always available. Large companies with a large number of employees in different branches organize multinational groups Smaller companies which, as a rule, have smaller capabilities either search for corresponding personal on the labour-market or join with other developers. As large companies have enough 


  financial resources for their project realization they, usually cooperate with other large companies When the team of develope rs is created and the responsibilities between them ar e distributed, it is possible to start the creation of the projec t. If the customer already possesses any data set, a part of array that is enough to develop software and to perform the test operations is taken from this data set. Then, as a rule, the en d product is created as modules This is a long-term process that can take a long period of time depending on the desired results. Usually, the average duration of the project is defined by the time period of one or two years A large project may take two years or even more Of course, that after the creation of the system it should be tested. This is an important step in its creation as poorly working project is useless to anyone. During testing the system is checked according to many parameters. The main testing parameters are the correct operation of mechanisms that form the system as well as the tolerance to stress loads Correctness of the mechanisms operations means that they should work without faults. Tolerance to stress loads is a relative concept, although it might be clearly measured Initially the system tolerance is checked at the stress level defined by the customer \(e.g. the number of transactions or connections\hen its working capabilities are checked at double load. And finally, the testing is performed at the maximum load level in order to understand when the system becomes inoperative The last and the final stage is system support Usually, after the creation of lar ge-scale project, the customer desires to get not only the warranty of its operability but also to get its support. Generally it is a longterm cooperation which is specified for several years ahead Special attention should be devoted to the security question during the project develo pment. The best approach to such question is: “The confidential information is the information that is not defined as non-confidential information”. Developer company should thoroughly protect clients  data preventing any possib ilities of the information leak. Usually, there is a set of clear instructions, the main idea of which is that in order to evade the problems it is better not to create them initially  C ONCLUSION  The choice of the software is one of the key features during the planning of the analytical system, as the functionality, licence costs, development and support costs development perspectives depe nd exactly on the software choice The implementation of an analytical system at an enterprise is rather expensive activity that requires involvement of significant financial and human resources. If the approach is correct, the return on investment is high and fast. A correctly adjusted system is able to perform a large set of different operations repeatedly, the fulfilment of which could require the work of several departments Due to the automation of the calculations the cost of data processing is significantly reduced. Other advantages are as follows  significant increase in calculation speed  increase in the availability of data \(the portal of reports can be available through the Internet  opportunity to obtain information in the real time during the report formation  improvement of security \(the data is available only to those staff members who have access The presence of the data array and the lack its usage strategy are a good reason for the OLAP solution planning In the modern world, where in order to be successful in business it is necessary to be faster, wiser and more flexible than your competitors, exactly OLAP is capable to help to achieve success   R EFERENCES  1 John M. Coe The Fundamentals of Business-to-Business Sales Marketing   New York.: McGraw-Hill, 2003 2 Daniel Amor The E-Business \(R\evolution, 1 st edition   New York Prentice Hall, 1999 3 Hanson Ward A Principles of internet-marketing Cincinnati.: SouthWestern College Publishing , 2001 4 Eric Sperley Enterprise Data Warehouse: Planning, Building, and Implementation, volume 1 Upper Saddle River.: Hewlett-Packard Company, 1999  


  4 layer contains the Media A ccess Control \(MAC\nd the Logical Link Control \(LLC\ It ensures that an initial connection has been set up, divides output data into data frames, and handles the ackno wledgements from a receiver that the data arrived successf ully. It also ensures that incoming data has been receiv ed successfully by analyzing bit patterns at special places in the frames.  Some examples of data links include Ethernet, HDLC, and CCSDS Space Packet Protocol For space-systems, the data-link is often secured using bulk encryption immediately before entering the radio and bulk decryption immediately after exiting the radio.  Special wrapping techniques exist wh ere this encryption may occur at the mission operation center and the encrypted data sent over the network The Network Layer is responsible for source to destination 223packet\224 delivery. The network layer is where addressing occurs and where routing is performed.   For IP networks the addressing occurs at the network layer and is hierarchical.  IP networks are secured using IP security protocols \(IPsec\urity is tied to the interface address Since IP security is address-based and the address can be hierarchical, IPsec can be hi erarchical thereby enabling aggregation of addresses into sets to which security policies can be applied The Transport Layer is responsible for delivering data between appropriate application processes on two or more separate end systems via the underlying network \(or datalink if no network exists\me examples of transport protocols include the TransMission Operations Protocols TCP\nd the User Datagram Protocol \(UDP\n IP networks, and the Licklider Protocol for long-delay space links. The Licklider protocol is intended to interface directly to the data-link layer in space-based implementations In IP networks, the transport layer is often secured using the Transport Layer Security \(TLS protocol.  TLS provides security and data integrity across IP networks. It allows client/server applications to communicate across a network in a way designed to prevent eavesdropping, tampering, and message forgery. TLS requires low-delay control loops and continuous or nearly continuous connectivity and therefore is of little utility in many, if not most, DTNs The Licklider Transport Protocol \(LTP is intended to serve as a reliable convergence layer over single-hop deep-space radio frequency \(RF\ links. LTP does Automatic Repeat reQuest \(ARQ\f data transmissions by soliciting selectiveacknowledgment reception reports It is stateful and has no initial negotiation or handshakes.  Hence, LTP is designed for use in and favored as the transport protocol of choice for deep space communications. There is a security specification for LTP [4 d e fi n e s secu rity ex ten s i o ns for LTP generally intended to help thwart DoS attacks However, such attacks in a space-based network are highly unlikely In general, a DTN is any delay-tolerant network; however this term has been appropriated to mean a store-and-forward network overlay using the Bundle Protocol. The overall DTN is responsible for source to destination \223bundle\224 delivery.  Since data is at rest and can live for very long periods of time, this data is more vulnerable than data that simply passes through a system in the form of packets.  An end-to-end control loop for resends of data may be absent due to the disconnected nature of the underlying network A DTN as described in RFC 4838 [1 be th ou gh t of as a network of application-layer gateways.  This type of DTN does not really have an addressing scheme per se.  Rather, it operates over Convergence Layers which are underlying protocols that accomplish communication between DTN entities using the Bundle Protocol \(BP\mmunications.  A DTN resides above the transport layer, whereas an IP network generally resides below the transport layer.  A DTN can bridge between dissimilar lower-layer networks and can operate simultaneously over heterogeneous networks \(i.e CCSDS, IPv4, IPv6 and Bluetooth\or even directly over a datalink protocol.   DTNs can be attacked via any networks and links they reside on at any layer DTNs as specified in RFC\222s 4 838 and 5050 are name-based To date, DTN naming is an open issue and a difficult one How names are to be used in routing, and how this will be mapped to the underlying routing of each convergence layer network, is unclear.  A naming system that allows for aggregation has the potential to greatly simplify both routing and security.  For s ecurity reasons and resource allocation, one would like to be able to uniquely identify a source as well as be able to determine which group or groups this source may belong to.  A properly constructed naming scheme will help considerably with this The Application Layer c ont ains all protocols and methods that fall into the realm of process-to-process communications.  The application layer sits on top of the DTN network layer and above the IP transport layer 4  P RACTICAL E XPLOITATIONS  Past history has shown that fo ur areas are generally most likely to be attacked the network, transport and application layers, and imperfections in the code Network Layer Exploits One can attack a network to eith er attempt to redirect traffic or to create denial of services \(DOS\or disrupt the network The implications of this regarding military networks is obvious.  DOS attacks may also cause great economic impact on private enterprise, or nations.  Another exploit is to simply be able to ente r a closed network and cause problems elsewhere The DTN Bundle Security Specification defines a Bundle Authentication Block \(BAB\load Integrity Block 


  5 PIB\d a Payload Confidentiality Block \(PCB\ help thwart network layer exploits Transport Layer Exploits The transport layer has been exploited in the Internet to create denial of services or connection hijacking.  Example include: TCP SYN-flood attacks, man-in-the-middle attacks and UDP flooding The Licklider Transport Protocol defines security extensions for LTP generally intended to help thwart DoS attacks.  These include options for implementing cookies and /or cryptographic auth entication of a segment Application Layer Exploits The Application Layer appears to be the layer of choice to exploit a system \226 at least within the internet \226 as evidenced by the vast amount of anti-virus and anti-spyware software Most likely this is because it provides the biggest monetary payoff \(e.g. identity theft, information theft\ermore it may be the easiest area to attack due to the vast number of applications and ease in exploiting human behavior.  One should anticipate similar exploits in DTNs Code Implementation Exploits History has shown that it is often possible to exploit code implementations.  The nature of the bundle protocol adds additional potential vulnerabilities that should be addressed Due to many variable-length fields, text-field parsing, and other bundle-processing operati ons, there may be risk due to implementation bugs \(e.g. buffer overflows\at don't exist with fixed-width fields and bi nary formats \(e.g. IP\re may be possibly attacks on host, CPU and memory by sending maliciously-crafted bundles and administrative records Implementations need to carefully consider the resources they expose and the algorithms for managing them including local storage, link access, and memory for management of contacts, in-memory bundle-metadata timers, etc.  Internet expe rience shows that it's often possible to exploit implementation decisions about these things if the protocol doesn't protect them \(witness TCP SYN-flood attacks which Internet community learned from and corrected in SCTP by deploying a 4-way handshake instead of a 3-way 5  S ECURITY A SSESSMENT FOR S PACE B ASED DTN S  Closed versus Open Networks In general, space networks are closed networks.  Closed networks, in theory, eliminate many of the exploits above from ever getting an opportunity to entering the system However, once one starts interconnecting networks as would be the case for international interoperability, then one enters a gray area somewher e between closed and open Architectures and Security It is generally agreed upon by security experts that the simpler the network architecture the better.  The notion is that one can better understand the flow of data and the potential places the network can be exploited.  One can then put security mechanisms in pl ace to shore up any weakness Internet or Intranet DTN Bundle Agent Application DTN Bundle Agent Datalink Encryptor Space Link Extension \226 Transfer Layer Application  Figure 1 - DTN over Encrypted Datalink using SLE-Transfer Services 


  6 Three simple architectures are sh own in figures 1, 2 and 3 An analysis of the pros and cons of each is provided.  Two have a DTN bundle agent at Mission Operations and the next hop bundle agent on the spacecraft.  The third has a DTN bundle agent at each grou nd station.  For these architectures, we assume that one would be operating via an international internetworked system as this is the most general case.  Thus, assume that the Mission Operations center is sending data through a third-party ground station In such a case, it would be unlikely that one would be encrypting the uplink at the ground station.  Therefore case 1 and 2 have the datalink encrypted at the Mission Operations center and decryp ted at the spacecraft.  These scenarios also assume that one has to, at a minimum encrypt the uplink at the datalink layer or network layer \226 here, the DTN layer.  For these scenarios we assume Internet Protocols stop at the ground and CCSDS protocols are used for the space/ground communication link.  One could run DTN over an IP network and use IPsec or a combination of IPsec and DTN security to secure the system Figure 1 illustrates a scenario where a DTN node is at Mission Operations and the next hop DTN node is on the spacecraft.  We assume that encryption is required and that a third party ground station is used.  Thus, the datalink must be encrypted/decrypted between Mission Operations and the spacecraft.  In order to synchr onize bit-stream data, special datalink encryptor/decryptor is required at Mission Operations 3 The encrypted data passes through the Space  3 For extremely high-rate downlink data, an additional bitstream multiplexer \(not shown in figure 1 may be required at each receiving ground station to multiplex and ti me-stamp the encrypted downlink bitstream prior to sending back to Mission Operations.  This can become quite expensive as such equipment has to be duplicated at each receiving ground station.  In addition, it ma kes international interoperability problematic due to concerns of shari ng cryptographic related technology Link Extension \226 Transfer Services Application and an application-layer tunnel and control loop are established The data is forwarded from Mission Operations to the appropriate ground station via a secure IPsec tunnel established between the Mission Operations and ground station firewalls.  At the ground station, the datalink data is extracted from the SLE-TS tu nnel and forwarded to the spacecraft.  At the spacecraft the DTN bundles can be extracted and forwarded on to the next appropriate bundle agent \(here, the moon Figure 2 is similar to Figure 1 in that it illustrates a scenario where a DTN node is at Mission Operations and the next hop DTN node is on the spacecraft.  However, here DTN bundle security replaces the s ecure datalink \(albeit both can be utilized\ain, we assume that encryption is required and that a third party ground station is used.  Here, the 223bundles\224 are secured between Mission Operations and the appropriate endpoint \226 be it the spacecraft of the lunar node The encrypted bundles pa ss through the Space Link Extension \226 Transfer Services Application and an application-layer tunnel and control loop are established The data is forwarded from Mission Operations to the appropriate ground station via a secure IPsec tunnel which has been established between the Mission Operations and ground station firewalls.  At the ground station, the datalink data is extracted from the S LE-TS tunnel and forwarded to the spacecraft.  At the spacecr aft, the DTN bundles can be extracted from the datalink str eam and forwarded on to the next appropriate bundle agent Internet or Intranet DTN Bundle Agent Application Space Link Extension \226 Transfer Layer Application DTN Bundle Agent Implementing Security  Figure 2 - Secure DTN using SLE-Transfer Services 


  7 In figure 3 a DTN bundle ag ent is placed at each ground station.  Since communication is hop-by-hop, there is no need to extend the space-lin k. Thus, the SLE-Transport Service Application gateways can be removed Furthermore, the links can be optimized between each bundle node via the proper choi ce of convergence layers For example, instead of running LTP between the lunar relay satellite and Mission Operations and one might have to do for scenarios 1 and 2, one can run TCP convergence layer between Mission Operations and the ground station and LTP between the ground station and the relay, thereby optimizing  the transport protocol for each DTN link Two important items to note from the three scenarios 1  The complexity of the architecture goes down dramatically if one is willing to allow DTN to handle the security.  Simplifying architecture allows one to better understand and address weaknesses in the network and results in less areas that can be exploited and a more secure system 2  The number of control loops is dramatically reduced Each security mechanism has to be able to function within the characteristics of the underlying transport protocol and tunneling m echanism and each transport protocol has to be able to handle the idiosyncrasies of the embedded control loops.  The interactions between transport protocols and security mechanism can be quite subtle.  Thus, reducing the number of encapsulations is highly beneficial 6  C ONTACT G RAPH R OUTING AND S ECURITY  Contact graph routing \(CGR\s a method for routing that applies to scheduled networks such as a space backbone CGR is currently the routing method of choice for the space backbone.  For space-based networks, CGR requires contact start/stop times and data rates, together with the distances in light second bet w e e n t h e n ode s.  F o r t h e communication paths to physically exist, the antenna systems must be pointed accordingly and all modulation and coding must also match on both ends of the communication link.   If CGR is to be used between systems owned and operated by different organizations \(e.g. NASA, ESA and JAXA\en the contact information, orbital information modulation and coding must be shared.  Thus, a reasonably strong trust relationship is required between organizations \226 almost to the point where th e network looks like a closed network, open only to trusted parties Currently, a specific routing protocol has not been developed to distribute the information that is required to configure contact graph routing.  Furthermore, this information is likely to be sourced from a central location such as a Mission Operations or network control center, not from the next neighbor.  Such information is likely to be delivered over the network management system The bundle security protocol \(BSP\le Authentication Block \(BAB\s used to thwart DOS and to ensure routing information exchange between 223neighboring\224 DTN nodes is authenticated.  However, with the pre-established trust relationship required for CGR, there appears to be little need to implement the BAB in a space-backbone running CGR as it adds overhead and processing while providing little or no additional protection Internet or Intranet DTN Bundle Agent Application DTN Bundle Agent Implementing Security   Figure 3 \226 Secure DTN without the need for SLE-Transfer Services 


  8 On the other hand, routing information for CGR will likely be sourced from a DTN node many hops away.  In order to validate such information, one could utilize the Payload Integrity Block \(PIB\or a pplication-layer security Furthermore, if one wishes to hide routing information residing in the payload, one could utilize the Payload Confidentiality Block \(PCB 7  N ETWORK M ANAGEMENT  Network Management consists of configuring bundle agents and monitoring network performance in order to both optimize performance and determine when something has failed either entirely or partially Network management can be performed out-of-channel for some DTNs.  However, out-of-channel network management requires a direct link to the bundle agent and is therefore limiting.  For mult i-hop DTNs where some bundle agents are only reachable via DTN technology, DTN protocols will be required to perform network management Configurations may include the following:  distribution of contact graph routing information, configuration of radios e.g. modulation, coding, data rates\ecurity policy security keys, and reporting.  If the network management system were compromised, it could lead to serious performance issues relative to the entire DTN network \226 even if only a single critical node where compromised 8  IRTF  DTN  S ECURITY P ROTOCOLS  The following section addresses security issues related to specific RFC and internet drafts As of November 2009, there are currently two documents specifically related to DTN secu rity \(e.g. the DTN Security Overview and the Bundle S ecurity Protocol\one additional document that utilizes the Bundle Security Protocol \(Reliability-only Ciphersuites for the Bundle Protocol\e additional document specifying Bundle-in-Bundle Encapsulation that will likely be used in conjunction with the Bundle Security protocol to perform secure tunneling \226 the equivale nt of \223tunnel mode\224 in IP security.  RFC 5050 and the DTN URI Scheme have some security related issues although they do not specify security protocols Bundling Protocol RFC 5050 The Bundle Protocol, RFC 5050, requires that all communicating bundle nodes share a common simultaneous, synchronized, conception of Universal Time Coordinated \(UTC\.  When a bundle is generated, an 223absolute\224 creation time is included in the header.  This creation time is user as a time to live counter to keep bundle from continuously looping in a network and to allow bundle to expire and be removed from the network.  In addition this timestamp is used to uniquely identify the bundle For network-centric operations involving diverse organizations, it may not be possible from a security standpoint to accept time reference data from nodes operated by a different organization, even though data communications with that organization are deemed acceptable [7 Because this timestamp is abso lute time, it may be possible to cause inadvertent or intentional problems in the network by sending improper timestamps such as to make bundles look like they came from the future. Of course, if your system is not properly synchronized you may be living in the past and the bundles are actually OK.  This is likely a network policy configuration option to determine what to do with such a bundle One can also send legitimate, extremely long-lived bundles that may not have a legitimate destination.  This could quickly consume system resour ces \(storage\.  What one does with such bundles is a local or organizational policy issue.  Implementations should be able to react to such policy The DTN Universal Resource Identifier Scheme The DTN Universal Resource Identifier \(URI\eme draft-irtf-dtnrg-dtn-uri-schemexx, represents early thinking on this naming syntax. The scheme described is very likely to change in many respects as additional input is received from the Internet community.     In general, the proposed scheme-specific part \(SSP\f a "dtn" URI is comprised of one or more dtn URI elements, each of which comprises an optional operation name followed by a URI.  The operational name enables flexibility to the point of perhaps actually specifying code to be run.  The proposed opnames identified in this document \(e.g. next, push, pop, flood exec\purely notional at this point 223DTN URIs whose URI elements lack operation names or are confined to operation names "push" and "next" raise no security considerations beyond those addressed in RFC 5050 The "pop" operation could be used to circumvent firewall rules that accept Bundle Protocol traffic but reject traffic destined for endpoints of the popped Internet application protocol Attacks built on the "flood" operation could exploit the possible side effects of evaluating selection expressions Attacks built on the "exec" operation could modify bundle node state in a limitless variety of ways Bundle protocol implementations that support these more dangerous operations will need to exercise extreme care  224 


  9 Delay-Tolerant Networking Security Overview The \223Delay-Tolerant Networking Security Overview\224 draft-irtf-dtnrg-sec-overview-xx, provides an overview of the security requirements and mechanisms considered for delay tolerant networking security for general DTNs.  It discusses the options for protecting such networks and describes reasons why specific security mechanisms were or were not\ chosen for the relevant protocols.  The entire document is informative, given its purpose is mainly to document design decisions.  Many of the threats identified in the DTN Security Overview document can be mitigated in space-based backbones.  Most have been address in the preceding  \223Threats\224 section, section 3 One of the most critical threats for space-base DTNs is unauthorized use of resources \226 particularly storage and battery power This document includes a good explanation of policy-based routing.  \223It is a requirement that DTN protocols and implementations support mechanisms for policy-based routing.  In other words each DTN protocol specpolification should state the security-relevant policy variables upon which routing and forwarding decisions can be made In particular, since forwarding even a single bundle will consume some network resources, every DTN node must implicitly incorporate some element of policy-based routing   224  Bundle Security Protocol Specification The \223Bundle Security Protocol Specification\224, draft-irtfdtnrg-bundle-security-xx, defines the bundle security protocol, which provides data integrity and confidentiality services.  Note, this is a very complex document and has gone through a number of revisions.  The latest have been related to adding multi-layer security to meta-data blocks    There are four basic secu rity blocks: the bundle authentication block \(BAB\e Payload Integrity Block PIB\he Payload Confidentiality Block \(PCB\d the Extensions Security Block \(ESB Bundle Authentication Block The bundle authentication block \(BAB\ed to assure the authenticity and integrity of the bundle along a single hop from forwarder to intermedia te receiver. The BAB protects a bundle on a "hop-by-hop" basis while other security blocks may provide protection over several hops or end-toend.  Thus, whenever both ar e present the BAB must form the "outer" layer of protection Currently \(as of November 2009\only a share-key Hash Message Authentication Code \(HMAC\ is defined for the BAB, HMAC-SHA1.  This ciphersuite could be used for group keying.  The key is not required to be one-to-one unique, just shared between the nodes that need it. If it is one-to-one unique then it can serve as additional validation of the node, but that's not required for bundle authentication Note, there is no requirement to do bundle authentication using HMAC. One could create a new ciphersuite and define it to use a different keying scheme. For example, one could use an ephemeral key for HMACing and then encrypt that with the public key of the intended recipient. Only the recipient can decrypt the key a nd then verify the bundle One could also establish short-term shared keys for HMACSHA1 similar to a session key in IPsec.  However, exactly how to do that is not addressed in any current specification \226 that is, key management and distribution is yet to be defined Payload Integrity Block 223The Payload Integrity Block \(PIB\s used to assure the authenticity and integrity of the payload from the PIB security-source, which creates the PIB, to the PIB securitydestination, which verifies the PIB     authenticator.  The authentication information in the PIB may \(if the ciphersuite allows\be verified by any node in between the PIB securitysource and the PIB security-d estination that has access to the cryptographic keys and re vocation status information required to do so.\224 The PIB may be of greatest use in space-based networks as operationally one may not care what the previous hop source\222s unique identity is \(that is probably known or implied via scheduling information\ather, one needs to know if the bundle originates from a trusted community as this is likely to be the filter for policy-based routing.  Policy may state that one is willing to store and forward bundles from various communities, but not from others For contact graph routing, where distribution of contract graph information originates from a central source, the Payload Integrity Block \(and perhaps the payload confidentiality block\ are the pr oper security mechanisms to use if security is to be performed at the bundle layer Payload Confidentiality Block 223The Payload Confidentiality Block \(PCB\ndicates that the payload has been encrypted, in whole or  in part, at the PCB security-source in order to protect the bundle content while in transit to the PCB security-destination It is STRONGLY RECOMMENDED that a data integrity mechanism be used in conjunction with confidentiality, and that encryption-only ciph ersuites NOT be used.\224 Extensions Security Block 223The Extension security block \(ESB\ provides protection for non-payload-related portions of a bundle.  They MUST NOT be used for the primary block or payload, including payload-related security blocks \(PIBs and PCBs 


  10 The ESB is placed in the bundle in the same position as the block being protected.  That is, the entire original block is processed \(encrypted etc\ and encapsulated in a "replacing ESB-type block, and this appears in the bundle at the same sequential position as the original block.  The processed data is placed in the security-result field.\224 The ESB is likely to be used to protect Meta-data blocks Meta-data blocks are described in the internet draft entitle 223Delay-Tolerant Networking Metadata Extension Block.\224 1 The M e t a dat a Ext e nsi o n B l ock i s desi gne d t o  be use d  to carry application-level information that DTN nodes can use to make DTN-level processing decisions regarding bundles, such as deciding whether to store a bundle or determining to which nodes to forward a bundle General Notes Concerning the Bundle Security Protocols 227 PIB and PCB protect the payload and are regarded as payload-related".   Other blocks are regarded as "nonpayload" blocks The ESB provides security for non-payload blocks in a bundle.  ESB therefore is not a pplied to PIB or PCBs, and of course is not appropriate for either the payload block or primary block Bundles protected using PCB must be processed in order Great care must be taken to ensure that security zones do not overlap.  One may have nested security zones \(DTN tunneling\, but one may not have overlapping security zones.  A detailed discussion on security zones is provided in the bundle security specification [9 The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA\significant resear ch effort in DTN directed toward military applications.  Much of the complexities of the security protocol appear to be related to the potential to utilize DTN bundling as a method to perform secure content storage and delivery which is applicable to content-base routing or content-based distribution.  Items continue to be developed and added to the bundle specification such as meta-data blocks and the corresponding Extension Security Block.  Indications are that these items can be combined to enable a type of multi-layer security for content storage discovery and distribution Implementing security with fragmentation is quite complex Implementing reactive fragmentation is often not possible depending on the security policies and ciphersuites used Thus, it is highly recommended that one avoid fragmentation if at all possible.   A detailed discussion is provided in the bundle security specification [9 DTN Bundle-in-Bundle Encapsulation The Delay-Tolerant Networking Bundle-in-Bundle Encapsulation draft, draft-ir tf-dtnrg-bundle-encapsulationxx, defines an encapsulatio n-specific application agent capability and a bundle payload format for use with the Bundle Protocol.  It defines the capability and format for placing one or more bundles inside of the payload field of an encapsulating bundle's Bundle Payload Block   Bundle-in-Bundle encapsulation can be used for security purposes.   One or more bundles can be placed inside of the payload of another bundle and then the payload of the encapsulating bundle can be en crypted.  The encapsulating bundle is then sent from the encapsulating security gateway to the de-encapsulating security gateway forming a security tunnel.  This security tunnel protects the entire contents of the encapsulated bundle\(s\from being disclosed, so that even the confidentiality of each bundle\222s source EID and destination EID are maintained on the portion of the network that is spanned by the tunnel.  One may anticipate that this technique will be applied in a similar manner to IPsec tunnel-mode to effectively hide traffic from one DTN network inside another Reliability-only Ciphersuites for the Bundle Protocol The Reliability-only Ciphersuites for the Bundle Protocol draft-irtf-dtnrg-bundle-checksum-05, defines new ciphersuites for use within the existing Bundle Security Protocol's Payload Integrity Block to provide error-detection functions.  The reliability ciphersuites do not require support for other, more complex, security-providing ciphersuites that protect integrity against deliberate modifications.  This creates the checksum servi ce needed for error-free reliability, and does so by separating security concerns from the few new reliability-only ciphersuite definitions.  The reliability-only ciphersuites are intended to protect only against errors and accidental modification; not against deliberate integrity violations 223The Delay-Tolerant Networking Bundle Protocol includes a custody transfer mechanism to provide acknowledgements of receipt for particular bundle s.  However no checksum is included in the basic DTN Bundle Protocol. Therefore, at intermediate hops, it is not possible to verify that bundles have been either forwarded or passed through convergence layers without error.  Without assurance that a bundle has been received withou t errors, the custody transfer receipt cannot guarantee that a correct copy of the bundle has been transferred, and errored bund les are forwarded when the destination cannot use the errored content, and discarding the errored bundle early would have been better for performance and throughput r easons.  The reliability-only ciphersuites provide the checksum function required to alleviate this problem [12 224  There are two negatives regarding using the BSP to implement checksums.  The first is that the complex bundle security protocol must be implemented by all nodes wishing to perform reliability checks.  This may be a rather extreme processing requirement for a low-end DTN node such as simple sensor webs.  The second is purely a human factors issue.  One may be implementing reliability and believe that 


  11 they are also secure because they are implementing a portion of the security specification 9  O PERATIONS C ONSIDERATIONS  There are four basic security tools currently developed for DTN bundle security, all are defined in the Bundle Security Protocol document.   These are: authentication of neighbors BAB\tegrity \(PIB\nfidentiality of the payload \(PCB and confidentiality of other bundles such as meta-data ESB  For space-based DTNs which are highly scheduled such that contact times, modulation, coding, media access, antenna pointing , etcetera are know, the usefulness of the BAB is questionable as there is already a strong trust relationship in order to establish communication at the physical layer.  The added complexity, added key distribution and management and potential for lockout versus the risk of not authenticating you neighbor must be considered Furthermore, if one is operating across organizational domains, a shared key \(HMAC\bly not acceptable Rather, asymmetric keys based on certificates are likely to be acceptable as this is easier to control and validate across organizational boundaries  One will likely have security policies in place that control and limit the use of system resources.  This policy should require one to identify the source of data and determine what organization that source belongs to.  The PIB would likely be used here.  If the keys are certificate-based, one could validate the certificate against an organizational certificate that has been cros s certified thereby identifying the source as belonging to a particular organization.  For DTNs this requires cross-organizational certification of signing certificates and sharing of public certificates Certificates would also have to be cached locally as one must assume that the DTN Bundle Agent cannot reach a certificate server and revocation list in a timely manner except for DTN where the \221D\222 implies short term disruption a very specific case of DTN  Common practice today is that the network is run by one group and the applications are run by another.   For example, in NASA Mission Operations does not run the ground infrastructure or radio and ground stations.  That is the responsibility of th e Space Communication and Navigation \(SCaN\rogram, the IP Operation Network IONET\group, the Space Netw ork group and the Deep Space Network group.  Mission Operations is responsible for the spacecraft control and the applications.  The management of security of the mission systems and the communication infrastructure is currently separate and likely to continue \226 particularly if one considers tying communication networks together with international partners.  Thus, one should anticipate the key and policy management of applications will be performed and controlled by a different group than that which controls key and policy for the communication network  An example of Mission Operations managing application security can be seen in the NASA Constellation program Here, the Constellation Communication Framework structure has a security element very similar to bundling to enable authentication, integrity and confidentiality.    Here authentication may be used to authenticate commands and confidentiality may be utilized to encrypt crew medical data This application layer security most certainly is managed by Mission Operations, not by network security  From the above observations, for space-based networks or any DTN network, encrypting bundles is probably only useful for bundles related to networking and not bundle related to application.  The application data should be protected by those responsible for the applications.  Such an approach should make secu rity management easier Applications are protected en d-to-end whereas the network is protected at all points of the communication chain using a variety of tools.  This may be contrary to what DARPA is considering where they mix Bundle Security, a network layer, with secure content storage, distribution and delivery an application  One area that needs specia l consideration regarding encryptions is DTN network management.  Who will control this security layer is not clear.  Network Management is an application, but it is also likely to be managed by the communication network group.  Thus, it may be appropriate to allow bundle security to be used to protect the network management application data  The need to protect metadata versus the complexity of key and policy management is and open issue for space-based networks as is how one might use meta-data blocks for space-based applications 10  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The author wishes to thank the many people who have responded to questions via direct conversation of via DTN email lists to clarify documents and concepts and provided feedback on the draft of this paper  The information regarding the Internet Request for Comments of the Internet Dr afts has been summarized paraphrased or, in some cases, taken verbatim. In such cases, an attempt was made to quote that information. The authors and research commun ity responsible for these documents are commended for the time and effort taken to develop and document their work    


  12 R EFERENCES    V. Ce rf e t al., \223 D elay-Tolera n t Network Architecture,\224 IETF RFC 483 8, informational, April 2007 2  CCSDS File Deliv ery Pro t ocol \(CFDP\ Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems Blue Book, Issue 4, January 2007 3  S. Sc ot t B u rl e i gh Li ckl i d e r Tra n sm i ssi on Pr ot oc ol  LTP\Overview, IETF 69 Transport Area Meeting, July 2007 http://www.ietf.org/proceed ings/69/slides/tsvarea0/sld1.htm   K Scot t a n d S B u rl ei gh 223B un dl e Pr ot oc ol  Specification,\224 IETF RF C5050, experimental November 2007     Space Li nk Extensi o n\227Application Program Interface for Transfer Services\227Summary of Concept and Rationale. Green Book. Issue 1. January 2006. CCSDS 914.1-G-1 6  S. Farrell, M  Ram ad as: \223 L ick lid er Tran sm issio n  Protocol - Security Extensions,\224 RFC 5327 Category: Experimental, September 2008 7  L Wo od  W. Ed d y P Ho lid ay: \223A Bu nd le of Problems,\224 IEEE Aerospace conference, Big Sky Montana, March 2009   K Fall, S Burleig h  A  D o ria J Ott D Y o u n g    223The DTN URI Scheme,\224 draft-irtf-dtnrg-dtn-urischeme-00, Expired: September 29, 2009, work-maybe-in-progress    S Farrell, S F. Sym i ngton H  W e iss  P  L ovell  223Delay-Tolerant Networking Security Overview,\224 draft-irtf-dtnrg-sec-overview-06, Expired: September 9, 2009, work-may-be-in-progress 10  Sy m i n g t o n S., Farrell, S Weiss, H., and P. Lov ell Bundle Security Protocol Specification",  draft-irtfdtnrg-bundle-security-09.txt,  October 2009, work-inprogress   S. Sy m i ngt on 223Del ay Tol e rant  Ne t w o rki ng  Metadata Extension Block,\224draft-irtf-dtnrg-bundlemetadata-block-04, Expires: April 11, 2010, work-inprogress 11  S. Sym i n g t o n R Durst K. Sco tt: \223Delay-To l eran t  Networking Bundle-in-Bundle Encapsulation,\224 draftirtf-dtnrg-bundle-encapsulation-06, Experimental Expires: February 13, 2010 , work-in-progress 12  W. Edd y  L. Wood W Ivan cic 223Reliab ilit y-o n l y  Ciphersuites for the Bundle Protocol,\224  draft-irtf-dtnrg-bundle-checksum-06,  experimental Expires: April 28, 2010, work-in-progress B IOGRAPHY  William Ivancic has over twenty-five years of experience in network and system engineering for communication applications communication networking research state-of-the-art digital, analog and RF hardware design and testing.  He currently is a senior research engineer at NASA\222s Glenn Research Center where he directs the hybrid satellite/terrestrial networking, spacebased Internet, and aeronautical Internet research.  He has lead research efforts to deploy commercial-off-the-shelf COTS\logy into NASA missions including the International Space Station and Shuttle.  Mr. Ivancic has recently performing  research on advance routing research for space-based and aeronautic-based networks.   Of particular interest is large scale, secure deployment of mobile networks including mobile-ip and mobile router technology  Mr. Ivancic is also principle of Syzygy Engineering, a small consulting company specializing in communications systems and networking as well as advanced technology risk assessment.   Mr. Ivancic is currently performing research and development on Identity-based security and key and policy management and distribution for tactical networks particularly mobile networks   


sharing rewards 0.15 t=1.38 0.42 t=4.06 Organizational benefits  R2=0.69 0.72 t=8.95 0.24 t=2.60 0.28 t=2.95 Figure 2: Path Analysis Diagram Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 balanced approach \(codification and personalization is often recommended  6. Conclusion  Very few quantitative studies had been conducted to demonstrate the influence of organizational trust on the usage level of various KM approaches as well as on the success of a KM initiative and on the emerging benefits for organizations. This initial study is a first attempt to do so. The theoretical model presented seems to have an acceptable fit with the data collected but will greatly benefit from further validations with larger data sets.  Not all organizations have realized the beneficial influence that trust could bring to their environment and the impact it could have on facilitating knowledge sharing and knowledge acquisition.  A culture and/or leadership change will often be required for organizations to increase their level of trust. Williams 49] provides some guidelines on how to build or repair trust  References  1. Cohen, D. and L. Prusak, In Good Company How Social Capital Makes Organizations Work 2001: Harvard Business School Press 2. Kramer, R.M., Organizational Trust: A Reader 2007: Oxford University Press, USA 3. Schoorman, D.F., R.C. Mayer, and J.H. Davis An integrative model of organizational trust Past, Present and Future. Academy of Management Review, 2007. 32\(2 4. Renzl, B., Trust in management and knowledge sharing: The mediating effects of fear and knowledge documentation. Omega, 2008. 36: p 206-220 5. Griffin, K., The contribution of studies of source credibility to a theory of interpersonal trust in the communication process. Psychological Bulletin 1967. 68: p. 104-120 6. Culbert, S.A. and J.J. McDonough, The politics of trust and organizational empowerment. Public Administration Quaterly, 1986. 10: p. 171-188 7. Matthai, J.M., Employee perceptions of trust satisfaction, and commitment as predictors of turnover intentions in a mental health setting,, in Peabody College. 1989, Vanderbilt University 8. Carnevale, D.G. and B. Wechsler, Trust in the public sector. Administration and Society, 1992 23: p. 471-494 9. Luhmann, N., Trust and Power. 1979, New York John Wiley 


John Wiley 10. McKnight, H.D. and N.L. Chervany. What is Trust? A Conceptual Analysis and an Inderdisciplinary Model. in Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS Beach California 11. Zand, D.E., The leadership Triad - Knowledge Trust, and Power. 1997: Oxford University Press 12. Shaw, R.B., Trust in the Balance. Building Successful Organizations on Results, Integrity and Concern. 1997, San Francisco: Jossey-Bass 13. McAllister, D.J., Affect and cognition-based trust as foundations for interpersonal cooperation in organizations. Academy of Management Journal 1995. 38\(1 14. Levin, D.Z., R. Cross, and L.C. Abrams, Trust and knowledge sharing: a critical combination 2002, IBM Institute for Knowledge-Based Organizations 15. Levin, D.Z., R. Cross, and L.C. Abrams, Why should I trust you? 2002 16. Cook, J. and T. Wall, New work attitude measures of trust, organizational commitment and personal need non-fulfillment. Journal of Occupational Psychology, 1980. 53: p. 39-52 17. De Furia, G.L., A Behavioral Model of Interpersonal Trust. 1996, St. John's University Springfield, LA 18. De Furia, G.L., Facilitator's guide to the interpersonal trust surveys. 1997: Pfeiffer &amp; Co 19. Bakker, M., et al., Is trust really social capital Knowledge sharing in product development projects. The Learning Organization, 2006 13\(6 20. Binney, D., The knowledge management spectrum - understanding the KM landscape Journal of Knowledge Management, 2001. 5\(1 p. 33-42 21. Hansen, M.T., N. Nohria, and T. Tierney, What's your strategy for managing knowledge? Harvard Business Review, 1999. 77\(2 22. Dennis, A.R. and I. Vessey, Three knowledge management strategies: knowledge hierarchies knowledge markets, and knowledge communities MIS Quaterly Executive, 2005. 4\(4 23. Swan, J., et al., Knowledge Management and innovation:networks and networking. Journal of Knowledge Management, 1999. 3\(4 24. Denning, S. What is knowledge management 1998  [cited; Available from http://www.worldbank.org/ks/index.html  or 25. Know-Net. The approach. [Web site] 2000 cited; Available from: http://www.know-net.org 26. Natarajan, G. and S. Shekhar, Knowledge management: Enabling Business growth. 2000 New Delhi: Tata McGraw-Hill 27. Zack, M.H. and S. Michael. Knowledge Management and Collaboration Technologies 1998  [cited; Available from http://www.lotus.com/services/institute.nsf/55013 7bfe37d25a18525653a005e8462/000021ca 28. Wick, C., Knowledge management and leadership opportunities for technical communicators. Technical Communications 2000. 47\(4 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 29. Ribi  re, V., Assessing Knowledge Management Initiative Successes as a Function of Organizational Culture, in Engineering Management and Systems Engineering Department. 2001, The George Washington 


Department. 2001, The George Washington University: Washington DC. p. 158 30. Jennex, M.E. and L. Olfman. Assessing Knowledge Management Success/Effectiveness Models. in 37th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences. 2004: IEEE 31. Delone, W.H. and E.R. McLean, Information Systems Success: The Quest for the Dependent Variable. Information Systems Research, 1992 3: p. 60-95 32. Bots, P.W.G. and h. Bruiin. Effective Knowledge Management in Professional Organizations Going by the rules. in 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences. 2002: IEEE Computer Society Press 33. Massey, A.P., M.-W. M.M., and T.M. O'Driscoll Knowledge Management in Pursuit of Performance: Insights from Nortel Networks MIS Quaterly, 2002. 26\(3 34. Lindsey, K. Measuring Knowledge Management Effectiveness: A Task-Contingent Organizational Capabilities Perspective. in Eighth Americas Conference on Information Systems. 2002 35. Jennex, M.E. and L. Olfman. A Knowledge Management Success Model: An Extension of DeLone and McLean's IS Success Model. in Ninth Americas Conference on Information Systems. 2003 36. Davenport, T., D.W. De Long, and B.M. C Successful Knowledge Management Projects Sloan Management Review, 1998. 39\(2 57 37. KPMG Consulting, Knowledge Management Research Report. 2000 38. Nelson, K.M. and J.G. Cooprider, The Contribution of Shared Knowledge to IS Group Performance. MIS Quaterly, 1996. 20\(4 432 39. Politis, J.D., The connection between trust and knowledge management: what are its implications for team performance. Journal of Knowledge Management, 2003. 7\(5 40. Teoh, K.K. and M. Avvari, Integration of TAM Based Electronic Commerce Models for Trust Journal of American Academy of Business, 2004 5\(1/2 41. Davis, F.D., Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease Of Use, And User Acceptance of Information Technology. MIS Quaterly, 1989 13\(3 42. McKnight, D.H., V. Choudhury, and C. Kacmar Developing and Validating Trust Measures for eCommerce: An Integrative Typology. Information Systems Research, 2002. 13\(3 43. Bahmanziari, T., J.M. Pearson, and L. Crosby, Is trust important in technology adoption? A policy capturing approach. The Journal of Computer Information Systems, 2003. 43\(4 44. Welch, J., Jack Welch's lessons for success, in Fortune. 1993. p. 86-91 45. Delmonte, A.J. and J.E. Aronson, The Relationship Between Social Interaction And Knowledge Management System Success. Journal of Knowledge Management Practice, 2004. 5 46. Choi, B. and H. Lee, An empirical investigation of KM styles and their effect on corporate performance. Information &amp; Management, 2002 40\(5 47. McDermott, R., Why Information Technology Inspired but Cannot Deliver Knowledge Management. California Management Review 


1999. 41\(4 48. Ribi  re, V., Le r  le primordial de la confiance dans les d  marches de gestion du savoir, in GREFI. 2005, Universit  Paul C  zanne: Aix en Provence \(France 297 49. Williams, S. Building and repairing trust.  2004 cited May 2005]; Available from http://www.wright.edu/~scott.williams/LeaderLet ter/trust.htm   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


21] N. M. Dixon, Common knowledge : how companies thrive by sharing what they know. Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2000 22] K. Knorr Cetina, The Manufacture of Knowledge: An essay on the constructivist and contexutal nature of science. Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1981 23] R. J. J. Boland, "An Ecology of Distributed Practice Involving Knowledge Work," in The Social Study of Information and Communication Technology: Innovation Actors, and Contexts C. Avgerou, C. Ciborra, and F. Land Eds. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004 24] M. Agar, Speaking of Ethnography. Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1986 25] J. Van Maanen, "The Fact of Fiction in Organizational Ethnography," ASQ, vol. 24, pp. 539-550, 1979 26] M. B. Miles and A. M. Huberman, Qualitative Data Analysis: A Sourcebook of New Methods. Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1984 27] S. R. Barley, "Technology as an Occasion for Structuring: Evidence from Observation of CT Scanners and the Social Order of Radiology Departments," ASQ, vol 31, pp. 78-108, 1986 28] M. L. Markus, "Toward a Theory of Knowledge Reuse: Types of Knowledge Reuse Situations and Factors in Reuse Success," Journal of Management Information Systems, vol. 18, pp. 57 - 94, 2001 29] W. J. Orlikowski, "Knowing in practice:  Enacting a collective capability in distributed organizing Organization Science, vol. 13, pp. 249?273, 2002 30] C  sterlund and P. Carlile, "Relations in Practice Sorting through practice theories on knowledge sharing in complex organizations," The Information Society, vol. 21 pp. 91-107, 2005 31] L. A. Suchman, Plans and Situated Actions: The problem of human-machine communication. Cambridge Cambridge University Press, 1987 32] M. S. Ackerman and C. Halverson, "Organizational Memory: Processes, Boundary Objects, &amp; Trajectories CSCW, vol. 13, pp. 155-189, 2004 33] R. J. Boland, "Information System Use as a hermeneutic process," in Information Systems Research Contemporary Approaches and Emergent Traditions, H.-E Nissen, H. K. Klein, and R. A. Hirchheim, Eds Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1991, pp. 439-464  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207–216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Int’l Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Int’l Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





