A Novel Communication Strategy between PE and NI in NoC-based MPSoC   Fu Fangfa, Hu Xin’an, Wang Jinxiang, Yu Mingyan Micro-electronic center Harbin Institute of Technology Harbin, China fff1984292@163.com, huxinan2008@163.com, jxwang@hit.edu.cn, myyu@hit.edu.cn   Abstract More and more computing cores will be integrated in the future SoC to deal with the growing application requirement. For such Multi-Processor System-on-Chip MPSoC\with high integration and large complexity, one key issue is the on-chip communication among various cores. By the way of analyzing the communication process, this paper 
proves that the bottleneck of inter-core communication is the interaction between computing and communicating element Targeting high efficiency of such interaction, a novel interaction strategy which combines a Lookup Table \(LUT mechanism and DMA mode, is proposed.  In this strategy, a hardware message address table is created in the network interface \(NI\ and NI can transfer the data from the network to local memory directly by looking up this table. It can remarkably reduce the usage of CPU interruption during communication, which is significant to improve the communication performance. The experimental results show that the proposed strategy brings better performance than the 
traditional buffer pool strategy when the message size is big and performs the same when the message size is small Keywords MPSoC; NoC; NI; Transfer Mode; LUT I   I NTRODUCTION  It has been widely accepted that Multiprocessor Systemon-Chip \(MPSoC\ is the most promising way to keep on exploiting the high level of integration provided by the semiconductor technology and on matching the constraints imposed by the embedded system market in terms of performance and power consumption [1 F o r suc h M u l t i Processor System-on-Chip \(MPSoC\ with high integration and large complexity, one key issue is the on-chip 
communication among various cores. Network-on-Chip NoC\ [2  w h i c h i s pro pose d  a s a n e w i n t e r c o nnec t i o n  architecture in MPSoC, bears better scalability, reliability compatibility, and flexibility. Nowadays, more and more NoC-based MPSoC architectures are proposed and implemented [4  N o C b a s e d MPS o C  i s com pos e d  of PEs   Router-Network and Network Interfaces \(NIs\ basically. As an important component, NI is in charge of data translation between routers and PEs, hiding architecture dependant aspects. Hence, the implementation of the NI is an important part to get high communication throughput and good performance Some previous works have discussed the design of NI 
Praveen Bhojwani[5 pr opo s e d a  C o re  N e t w o r k I n t e r f ace  CNI\ architecture to bound on-chip communication latency jitter so as to provide for predictable end-to-end latency but not guarantee least possible end-to-end latency. In order to achieve low latency packet processing, Daewook Kim[6  presented a novel NI architecture that utilizes a Gray code based packet reordering methodology. Heikki Kariniemi presented a Network Interface  called Micronswitch Interface MSI\hich provides mechanisms for efficient buffer management and fault-tolerant communication besides basic functionalities. However, they only consider NI as a 
component of NoC and focus on designing NI structure targeting specific routing strategies or higher pack/unpack efficiency In fact, NI is the key component that decouples processors from communication. The interaction mechanism between NI and processors will affect the communication performance and efficiency significantly. It hasn’t been well studied till now. In this paper, through evaluating and analyzing the communication process in NoC-based MPSoC the bottleneck of communication is identified and the importance of interaction mechanism between NI and processors is proved. Based on the analysis of different interaction mechanisms, a novel approach called LookUp 
Table \(LUT\ is proposed. This mechanism can not only guarantee high transmission rate, but also induce few interacts between CPU and NI, which is significant to improve the communication performance II  A NALYSE OF C OMMUNICATION C OST  A  NoC-based MPSoC The basis of this paper stands on a NoC-based distributed-memory MPSoC, and this MPSoC is based on a full-system co-simulation MPSoC platform which is presented in details in [8   Fig  1 s h ow s  a s y s t em l ev el overview of this system. As illustrated in this figure, the hardware subsystem is composed of a matrix of PE. Each PE 
which includes a CPU, physical memory and some peripherals, is connected to the network through Network Interface \(NI\. NI communicates with CPU through DMA mechanism, which can free up CPU cycles. The software subsystem consists of the target parallel application, message passing library and the operating system. The parallel programming model of this system is MPI [9 w h ich is n o w  actively developed. The parallel application with MPI format is accomplished by several parallel tasks which can communicate with each other by calling the API of MPI library. And the operating system capsules the details of 


different hardware and provides the same interface to MPI library       Figure 1  A NoC-based distributed-memory MPSoC system From the hardware point of view, NI is in charge of data translation between routers and PEs \(to pack/unpack data packets\, hiding architecture dependant aspects, and from the software point of view, the NI is the manager to inject messages from SW MPI API, through the NI driver, to the interconnection network. Hence, the implementation of the NI together with the NI driver is an important piece to get high communication throughput and good performance B  Communication process There are two kinds of inter-task communication in the MPSoC system above: communication between tasks in the same PE which is accomplished by shared memory mechanism, and communication between tasks on different PEs which is accomplished by the message passing mechanism and is the issue we concern. Fig. 2 shows a layered view of the process of communication between tasks in different PEs      Figure 2  Process of inter-task communication As illustrated in this figure, the communication process can be divided into three stages Sending preparation: MPI_Send\(\PI of MPI library should be called when task i need to send a message to task j After finishing the work of error checking and data pretreatment, MPI_Send\(\ill call the driver of NI which will configure the NI and start the data transfer process Data transfer: the data will be pushed to the FIFO of NI from the sending buffer firstly, which is called NI-SEND process. Then it will be transferred through the network to the target node, which is called NET-TRAN process. And at last, it will be written into the receiving buffer from the FIFO of target NI, which is called NI-RECV process Receiving return: when the data is ready in the receiving buffer, the target task j will be woken up if it has called MPI_Recv\(\. And MPI_Recv\(\ will check the message and return finally C  Analysze of commnication cost The cost of each communication stage is evaluated and analyzed using PingPong benchmarks [10 und er  d i ffer e n t  data length and the results are shown in Fig.3 0 50000 100000 150000 200000 250000 300000 350000 400000 450000 500000 Latency\(cycle  Sending Preparation Data Transfer Recving Return 1 packet 4 packets 16 p ackets  Figure 3  Cost of each communication stage From the results, it can be seen that the latency of sending preparation stage, where only some configuration work is done, is short. And the latency of receiving return stage, which is used to wake up the task, is constant under different data length, because this part of work is independent of the data length. But the latency of data transfer stage increases with the increasing of data length And it occupies a large proportion in total latency: 45 under data of 1 packet length; 59% under data of 4 packet length; 79% under data of 16 packet length. Therefore the performance and efficiency of data transfer stage will affect the communication cost and performance of MPSoC significantly The process of data transfer stage is further analyzed Experience data shows that the latency of NET-TRAN is only 40-50 cycles which is less than 1% of total latency in Fig3, even if the network is saturated [11  In th e p r o cess o f  NI-SEND the work of data transfer from memory to FIFO of NI is fully completed by hardware, while in the process of NI-RECV additional interaction between NI and CPU is needed to transfer the data from FIFO of NI to receive buffer This kind of interaction, which demands interruption as the HW/SW interface, costs huge and will also induce network congestion. Therefore NI-RECV process is the performance bottleneck of the communication, and its efficiency mainly depends on the interaction mechanism between CPU and NI NI-RECV process will be well studied in the following paragraph 


III  D ESIGN S TRATEGY OF NI-RECV A  Strategy of transfer mode When the data has been pushed into the FIFO of NI in the destination node, the strategy of how to transfer the data to the receiving buffer in local memory is the key to improve the communication performance, and it is determined by the interaction mechanism between NI and CPU. Commonly there are two kinds of such mechanisms:  I/O access and DMA mode. In the I/O access mode, CPU reads data from FIFO of NI and then writes data to the memory directly through searching the address according to the tag of the data. Although this mechanism can guarantee low hardware and control cost, it will also induce low transfer rate and cost huge CPU resource. On the contrary, DMA can separate computation from communication on the cost of additional hardware. When in the process of NI-RECV, DMA pops the data from FIFO of NI and write them to the memory.  DMA mode can guarantee high data transfer rate without occupying additional CPU resource. Transfer strategy based on DMA mode will be discussed as follows In DMA mode, although CPU is freed up from communication, NI cannot identify the destination task of the data which is necessary for finding out the address of receiving buffer. When NI receives data from the network, it should trigger an interruption to request CPU to find out the destination task and configure DMA. It will not cost too much for once. However, when lots of message arrives NI at the same time, interruption will be sent frequently and CPU should configure DMA repeatedly, which will affect the communication performance significantly In traditional parallel computer network domain, buffer pool mechanism is proposed to solve this problem. In buffer pool mechanism, a specific memory block is allocated to NI as a software FIFO. When a message arrives at NI, NI will unpack it and write it to the buffer pool with the message tag After enough data accumulating in the buffer or after fixed length of time, an interrupt will be triggered and CPU will deal with the data stored in the buffer pool. According to the message tag, CPU will store each message to it receive buffer Buffer pool mechanism can effectively reduce the usage of interruption and improve the communication performance However, it is not fit for on-chip system. It is because: \(1\a mass of additional memory are required by buffer pool which result in high on-chip memory cost; \(2\ when a message is too long to be stored in the buffer pool wholly the message will be divided into several short ones and CPU needs to deal with these messages one by one, which will reduce the efficiency of DMA and affect the performance A LTU-based NI structure combined with the DMA mode is proposed in this paper. Just like buffer pool, this mechanism can reduce the usage of interruption and guarantee high DMA efficiency with hardly any additional cost of on-chip memory B  Solutions of LUT-NI     Figure 4  Solutions diagram of LUT-NI The solution diagram proposed in this paper is shown in Fig.4. There is a LookUp Table \(LUT\n the NI and one Swap Table maintained in the local memory. Each item in the LUT contains a valid bit, a tag segment and address information. The valid bit, used to indicate whether the information in this LUT item is available currently, is set to valid whenever a LUT item is create or swapped in, when a transmission is completed, it will be cleared, and then this LUT item can be re-filled. The tag segment is compared with the tag information in the packet, if matches, the address stored in the item can be brought to configure and start the DMA transfer directly. The address segment holds where the data should be stored in the local memory  Figure 5  Flow of swapping LUT item When the LUT in the NI has a lack of empty item, the item not used temporarily will be swapped out to the Swap Table so as to get space in the LUT. The swap strategy is 


First IN First OUT in this paper and can be developed on the application characteristics. Fig.5 is the flow char of process to swap item in the LUT to the Swap Table when NI get a request to use LUT item IV  E VALUATION OF  LUT-NI To evaluate the performance and the overhead of LUTNI, a testcase in which multiple messages may arrive at the receive end simultaneity, is implemented. The result is shown in Fig.6         0 2000000 4000000 6000000 8000000 10000000 12000000 14000000 16000000 1248163264128 Length of Message\(packet Latency\(cycle Buffer Pool LUT-NI I/O Access  Figure 6  Communication performance of different transfer modes The performance of three transfer modes is approximate when the data amount is small, and the latency of data transmission all increases with the increasing of data length but the I/O access mode has a much higher growth rate than the other two modes. Compared with the Buffer pool, LUTNI has a slower growth in latency. The communication overhead of LUT-NI is only 30% of Buffer pool mode, and according to the previous description, the benefit will increase as the length of message grows 150000 50150000 100150000 150150000 200150000 250150000 300150000 1 2 4 8 16 32 64 128 256 512 Length of Message\(packet Latency\(cycle 2 LUT items 3 LUT items 4 LUT items  Figure 7  Impact of various LUT items on communication performace LUT in the NI will bring in overhead in hardware design Each LUT item consist of 65 bits registers, so the number of LUT items will affect the cost of hardware subsystems. Fig.7 shows the impact on the performance when the number of LUT items changed in the scenario 5 messages arrive at the receive end at the same time. The latency of 2 LUT items increases rapidly when the message is long. Especially, the latency of 3 items is almost the same as that of 4 items, so there is adequate trade-off between the amount of LUT items and the communication performance. LUT works similarly with Cache in the CPU, so the future work is to achieve trade-off between performance and overhead through computation under determined application V  C ONCLUSION  The on-chip communication among various cores is a key issue for MPSoC. This paper proves that the bottleneck of inter-core communication is the interaction between computing and communicating element through analyzing the communication process. And a novel strategy combining a Lookup Table \(LUT\ mechanism and DMA mode is proposed. LUT NI reduces the usage of CPU interruption and improves the communication performance through a hardware message address table. The proposed strategy has same performance when the message size is small, and brings better performance than the traditional buffer pool strategy when the message size is big R EFERENCE   1  J. Ceng et al., “MAPS: An Integrated Framework for MPSoC Application Parallelization,” DAC 2008, Anaheim, California USA,pp.754–759.2008 2  L. Benini, G. De Micheli, “Networks on Chips: A New SoC Paradigm,”Computer, Vol. 35, Iss. 1, pp: 70-78, Jan. 2002 3  P. Pande, C. Grecu, A. Ivanov, R. Saleh, G. De Micheli Design,Synthesis and Test of Networks on Chip”, IEEE Design and Test of Computers, Vol. 22, No. 5, pp: 404-413, 2005 4  Tyrone Tai-On Kwok, Yu-Kwong Kwok. On the Design, Control and Use of a Reconfigurable Heterogeneous Multi-Core System-on-aChip. IEEE International Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Processing, Miami, FL, pp.1-11,April 2008 5  Praveen Bhojwani and Rabi N. Mahapatra. “Core Network Interface Architecture and Latency Constrained On-Chip Communication ISQED  2006, pp. 358-363, 2006 6  Daewook Kim, Manho Kim and Gerald E. Sobelman. “NIUGAP Low Latency Network Interface Architecture with Gray Code for Networks-on-Chip,”ISCAS 2006,pp.3902-3905.2006 7  Heikki Kariniemi and Jari Nurmi. “NoC Interface for Fault-Tolerant Message-Passing  Communication on Multiprocessor SoC Platform NORCHIP 2009,pp.1-6.2009 8  Mingyan Yu, Junjie Song, Fangfa Fu, Siyue Sun, and Bo Liu. “A Fast Timing-Accurate MPSoC HW/SW Co-Simulation Platform based on a Novel Synchronization Scheme,” IMECS 2010,  HongKong Volume II, pp.1396-1400. March 2010 9  D. Walker, and J. Dongarra. MPI: A standard message passing interface. Supercomputer, Jan 1996   Pallas MPI Benchmarks - PMB, Part MPI-1, 2000   Cheng Liu, Liyi Xiao, Fangfa Fu. “Design and analysis of on-chip router,” ICSICT 2008 ,9th International Conference, Oct  20-23 BeiJing, pp.1835-1838.Oct. 2008  


               a               b  Figure 5. The actual and forecasted values of 500 Set A Data using adaptive and non-adaptive approaches: \(a recasting \(b\ 5 steps ahead forecasting  R EFERENCES    E Montañés, J. R. Quevedo, M. M  Prieto, and C. O Menéndez  Forecasting Time Series Combining Machine Learning and Box-Jenkins Time Series   Advances in Artificial Intelligence  IBERAMIA  2002, vol. 2527, Jan 2002, pp. 491-499, doi 10.1007/3-540-36131-6_50   K. Lin, Q. Lin C. Zhou, and J. Yao  Time Series Prediction Based on Linear Regression and SVR  Proc. of the Third International Conference on Natural Computation, Nov 2007 pp. 688-691, doi: 10.1109/ICNC.2007.780   M. Boznar, M. Les jak, and P. Mlakar  A Neural NetworkBased Method for Short-Term Pr edictions of Ambient SO2 Concentrations in Highly Polluted Industrial Areas of Complex Terrain  Atmospheric Environment, vol. 27\(2 Jun 1993, pp. 221-230, do i: 10.1016/0957-1272\(93 S  S. M. Ch en, and N. Y. C hung  Forecasting Enrollments using High-Order Fuzzy T ime Series and Genetic Algorithms  International Journal of Intelligent Systems vol. 21\(5\, May 2006, pp. 485-501, doi: 10.1002/int.v21:5  Q.S. Li, D.K. Liu, J.Q. Fa ng, A.P. Jeary and C.K. Wong  Damping in buildings: its neural network model and AR model  Engineering Structures, vol 22, May 2000, pp 1216  1223, doi: 10.1016/S0141-0296\(99  H.H. Ngu y en and C.W. Ch an  Multiple neural networks for a long term time series forecast  Neural Computing Applications  vol 13,  April 2004, pp. 90  98, doi 10.1007/s00521-003-0390-z   K. Kalaitzakis, G.S. St avra kakis and E.M. Anagnostakis  Short-term load forecasting based on artificial neural networks parallel implementation  Electric Power System Research, vol 63, October 2002, pp. 185  196, doi 10.1016/S0378-7796\(02  Y  Mashor, “Modification of the RBF Network Architecture ASEAN Journal of Sciences Technol. Dev vol 17\(1  M.Y. Mashor A daptive Fuzzy C-Means Clustering Algorithm for A Radial Basis Function Network   International Journal System Sc iences, vol 32\(1\, 2001, pp 53-63  J. A. Karl and W. Bjorm Computer Controlled Systems Theory & Design, 3 rd edn. New Jersey : Prentice Hall 1997   C F Gao  T. L Ch en and T S  Nan    Discussion of Some Problems About Nonlinear Time-Series Prediction Using vSupport vector Machine  Communication Theory Physics vol 48, July 2007, pp. 117-124  K. R. Muller, A. J  Sm ola G. Ratsch, B. Scholkopf, and J Kohlmorgen  Using Support Vector Machines for Time series Prediction  in  Advances in kernel methods: support vector learning  MA, USA. MIT Press Cambridge, 1999  
821 


familiarize them with the Center and this particular research being done Invitation letters are a common component of any survey research project.  However, delivering them online via e-mail is a major difference between other methods and creates additional challenges.  An individual who receives an unwanted piece of printed mail can throw it out.  Similarly, unwanted e-mail  spam be deleted after its read, deleted prior to being read, or deleted ever before it reaches a user s inbox.  Thus it was essential that we take steps to ensure that members of our sample actually received our initial invitation e-mail and entice them to read it and choose to participate. We also sent all contact emails from an academic server \(.edu domain\ it would be less likely to be deleted by government spam filters than e-mails coming from a .com or .net address  4.5. Survey administration process  We were very cognizant of the importance of both thoroughly testing the instrument and the administration process prio r to releasing the full survey.  As such, the survey went through three complete stages from start to finish: pre-testing, pilot testing, and full administration.  These three stages took approximately seven months \(October 2007  April 2008\rom start to finish; this does not count the time spent on sampling, instrument design invitation letter design, and building the survey into the online tool  4.5.1. Pre-test The goal of our pre-testing process was to get early feedback about the first implementation of the web-based instrument  The survey was sent to 23 individuals to pre-test including 3 members of the research team, and we received comments back from 9 of them. We discussed the comments and made some revisions to the survey questionnaire  4.5.2. Pilot Pilot tests are primarily used to ensure that survey questions operate well but also that the instrument as a whole is functioning as design we also wanted to examine, using a small group of government employees, if the full administration process planned would be feasible with a large sample.   The survey was piloted using 80 contacts approximately 10% of our sample at the time of pilot administration.  After eliminating individuals whom we were unable to contact \(mainly due to missing or incorrect e-mail addresses, or because they left their position during the course of the pilot administration period\, we had 70 contacts remaining.  Five chose to opt-out between the time of sending out the initial survey link and sending the final reminder 5/70=7.1%\eople completed the survey in full for a response rate of 28.6%.  We also had 3 partial responses, so our rate for any responses was 32.9% or almost one-third.  This became our goal for the full administration.  Unfortunately our n from the pilot testing was too low to do any kind of statistical analysis, but we did use descriptive statistics to examine these results for basic trends. Again, our communication with public health and justice professional associations throughout the survey design and sampling processes was critical. This relationship helped us to refine our message to appeal to the government professionals we were surveying One of the major determinations made from this was that the Likert item questions were generally skewed towards the right \(i.e., the higher end\ On a strongly agree we consistently had means of 5 or 6.  We thought that the wording used for the scale itself might be causing a response bias that would make respondents answer favorably and so we modified it during the post-pilot tweak period to being 1 \(not at all\ 7 \(to a great extent\his decision allowed us to retain the wording on nearly all of the individual question items and still use a single measurement scale for the entire instrument.  Similarly, there seemed to be a selfselection bias, as respondents were mostly choosing initiatives that had succeeded, and this could also skew scale responses.  To remedy this, we revised some of the language in the survey instruction text to encourage participants to think about ALL kinds of initiatives in which they were involved and not only ones with positive outcomes  4.5.3. Full administration The full administration of the survey began by e-mailing invitations to 815 contacts, 361 individuals in criminal justice agencies and 454 individuals in public health agencies. It contained a description of the survey project and background about the previous research leading up to the survey.   Members of our sample were informed that the link to the survey itself would be mailed the following week and gave them the opportunity to opt-out if they so chose; similarly they could offer names of contacts who would replace them or suggest additional contacts to add. Thus this invitation e-mail served two purposes 1  Provide the opportunity for sampled individuals to opt-out of the survey prior to receiving the link Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


2  Check for working e-mail addresses: if the initial e-mail message delivery failed, we searched for an updated address and resent the invitation A follow-up e-mail containing an individual s unique survey link was sent approximately one week later.  This ensured that a single survey would be tied to a single respondent.  Reminders were e-mailed to non-completers two weeks, four weeks, five weeks and six weeks after the survey link was first sent. In total, our final sample size was 617 government professionals. We had 71 opt-outs without replacements, for a rate of 11.5%.  We had 173 completed surveys, for a rate of 28.0%. The remaining 373 individuals did not complete the survey, for a 60.5% non-response rate; this also included four individuals who started the survey but did not finish/submit it for whatever reason We were also generally satisfied with the final representation concerning the sample make-up \(see Figure 1\omparing the respondents who completed the survey with the non-respondents, the percentages were very similar by policy domain; this was also true when we compared the respondents who completed the survey with the entire sample However, for both comparisons, we found that the percentages were very different by level of government.  Accordingly, we can say that our final results will be representative among our sample as a whole, but not necessarily for the entire population of public health and criminal justice government employees at the state and local levels   Sample Statistics by Policy Domain and Level of Government 0 20 40 60 80 100 Health-Local Health-State Justice-Local Justice-State Non-Respondents Completes Opt-Outs  Figure 1. Respondents by Policy Domain  4.6. Increasing survey response rate  A challenge with any survey is finding ways to increase the response rate as much as possible.  With the MIII survey, as with many other digital government projects, this was especially necessary given that we were essentially cold calling our potential respondents.  At every contact point beginning with the initial invitation letter, to the letter sent with the survey link, to the letter sent with each survey reminder, as well as to the instruction text for the survey itself our goals were to draw these individuals further into the survey process by convincing them not to opt-out and to have them move deeper into the instrument itself once they clicked on a survey link.  Ultimately we wanted them complete the survey and contribute to high response rates As part of our early survey planning, we had looked at published journal articles to see what other researchers were reporting by way of their response rates and survey techniques.  This allowed us to have our own internal target for what we hoped the response rate would be, for both the pilot and then the full administration.  We used four major steps prior to and during the administration of the full survey to maximize the number of completed responses 1  Pre-test After the initial survey instrument was created, a small group of University at Albany faculty, Center for Technology in Government staff members, and public health/criminal justice practitioners reviewed \(pre-tested\or content and clarity.  Recommendations from these participants were used to revise the instrument This included making edits to our wording for clarification purposes, breaking single questions into multiple questions, and changing response options 2  Pilot test Next, we engaged in pilot test administration. We selected 10% of individuals n=80\rom the contact list available in midOctober 2007 to develop our pilot sample.  This was done by sorting our contact list in alphabetical order by first name, then selecting every 10 th person from both the criminal justice and public health lists.  The administration process was designed to mimic what we planned to do for the full survey.  Invitations were sent out asking these individuals if they wished to participate.  The following week a survey link was e-mailed.  Reminders were sent at the start of weeks 3 and 4, then a final reminder the day before the survey was set to close.  The survey instrument was revised based on comments from respondents, as well as on results from basic survey analysis that was done. We also learned that reminders were very useful 3  Full administration This was begun by sending out 815 invitations asking sampled individuals to complete the survey.  The use of a survey invitation allowed us to eliminate members of the sample who wanted to opt-out and not complete the survey, as well as update our Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


contact list with either replacements \(if someone else from an agency would be completing it instead\mendations for new contacts We were also able to remove individuals we were unable to contact \(i.e., non-contacts 4  Reminders Finally, the use of reminders was key in increasing response rate.  Reminders were sent at the start of weeks 2, 4, and 5, then a final reminder sent two days before the official survey close date.  \(However we kept the survey open one extra week since a number of agencies were closed on the end date; this produced four additional completes.\After each point of contact with sampled individuals \(the initial survey link plus the four reminders\, we had a spike in the number of completed surveys on either the day of contact itself or on the following day \(see Figure 2   Number of Completes by Day 0 5 10 15 20 25 2  7 20 0 8 2  1 4  2 00 8 2  2 1  2 008 2  2 8 2008 3 6 2008 3/13/20 0 8 3  2 0/2 00 8 3  2 7  2 008  Figure 2. Effect of Reminders  4.7. Academic-Practitioner Collaboration  For our entire project, the partnership between academic researchers and government practitioners was critical.  Engaging practitioners at the early project stages, from design onwards, ensured that key pieces were not missed when developing the models or in designing the survey items and companion text Both parties have expertise and viewpoints that can be shared with each other and that each other can learn from  Buy in from top government practitioners in a certain domain is important for encouraging the participation of others, both in survey research and in research projects more generally.  As highlighted earlier in this paper, we spoke with the directors or heads of various national-level criminal justice and public health professional associations, some of whom agreed to pre-test the survey.  Our hope was to obtain names and contact information for their members \(to add to our sample list\nd to have them publicize the survey through their channels \(e.g mailing lists, national conferences, etc.\his also took away some of the cold calling aspect once the invitations went out, since many potential respondents did have some advance knowledge These organizational leaders played a role in legitimizing the survey.  If they did not feel that it was an effort worthy of their time, they would not have agreed to offer pre-test feedback or to share its existence with the members of their organization Therefore it was critical to obtain their support However, like with any collaborative endeavor, there were also some costs [6    5. Conclusions  As the area of digital government grows, it becomes incumbent upon academics and practitioners to work together to empirically examine this complex and multifaceted phenomenon.  Surveys are excellent ways to gather essential data for empirical analysis and Web-based surveys in particular are powerful alternatives to mail or telephone ones. However, in order to overcome the challenges of conducting Webbased surveys, researchers should consider the disadvantages of Web-based surveys mentioned above when designing and administering their own surveys. There are several general recommendations to maintain the quality of Web-based surveys in the literature \(see, for exam  2 4 all the target population of a survey should be analyzed carefully in order to assess their ability to access and participate in online surveys d th e desig n  of a Web survey should be respondent-friendly  This includes considering participants technological competencies and the congruence between the logic of how computers operate and respondents  expectations for completing survey T h ird, in  order to increase the response rate, personalized email cover letters, pre-notification to invite participating a survey, and follow-up reminders are importan a st b u t n o t least, to e n s u re confidentiality and privacy of respondents and to have less sampling error the survey should not be open to the general public and passwords and PIN numbers are highly suggested  The MIII project, although extensive and timeconsuming from start to finish, was an extremely worthwhile and unique initiative.  We can pave the way for future digital government studies through our demonstration of how Web-based surveys using an unbounded population of government employees can be conducted in this field of research.  Below, we offer a list of five lessons learned specifically from this digital government project Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


1\inate with professional organizations and government agencies This is one of our most important lessons learned. Given the growth of email communication, problems with spam and the resulting fact that government practitioners are less inclined to read \(let alone respond to\mail from unknown senders, being able to get support from professional associations and government agencies is critical. These organizations do not need to endorse the survey, as none of them did for our project However, if they feel the survey is relevant to their members or employees and that results will provide value to them as well, they are more willing to communicate the existence and purpose of your survey  2\ interdisciplinary and diverse research team Since digital government is an interdisciplinary field, it is extremely valuable to have a project staff with a wide variety of disciplinary backgrounds and skills.  Include individuals with strengths in research methods statistics, IT, project management, and writing for wide audiences.  Even if practitioners are not on the team itself, get their feedback starting at early stages of the research process was very positive.  Our work would not have been as successful as it was without having a varied mix of people involved  3\a flexible plan and timeline Although we created a timeline of work very early in the research process, doing Web-based surveys with government practitioners continually modified our initial timeline It is important to be aware of both internal and external factors that may cause you to need extra time. For our project, at certain steps we needed more time to tweak our survey instrument or handle feedback from practitioners.  Once we began building the instrument in the online tool, sometimes we hit technical difficulties.  During pilot testing we ran into both Thanksgiving and Christmas on the calendar which influenced our administration period Although we had hoped to start the full administration by early to mid-January 2008, it was not until the end of January/early February 2008 that we could begin 4\ Have patience and understand the government context Similarly, it s important to recognize that this is a long process.  It takes time to engage in new research that involves primary data collection with government practitioners.  Team members may come and go, or other projects may pull resources away Members of the sample may be in their position during one point of contact and gone to another government agency the next. Surveys can be a slow frustrating, and often tedious line of work; while the outcome will ideally be the production of a rich data set that can provide any number of contributions to both academic and practitioner audiences, it can be hard to see the light at the end of the tunnel while you re going through it 5\ Keep backups and have a contingency plan  This is not only a good practice for digital government research, but a good IT practice in general.  You never know when the important file you need is discovered to have a mistake, been deleted, or have gotten corrupted, especially with Web-based surveys.  Having backup versions for redundancy ensures that if something goes wrong, it can be fixed quickly.  Because we handled general administration tasks manually, instead of relying solely on Survey Gizmo s invitation manager, the project consisted of numerous data \(spreadsheet\files to keep track of contacts at each stage of the process If there was an error, backup files were key to sort out corrections In conclusion, the use of online surveys offers a powerful yet risky research mechanism. The ability to survey a large population of geographically politically \(i.e., multiple levels of government\d professionally diverse government professionals within a quick turnaround timeframe and with relatively little cost provides a lot of value. The risk comes in part from the ease and prevalence of the communication method: e-mail. While a Web-based survey may be easier to administer than a paper one the fact is that the response rate and quality of responses may be significantly lower than from a paper version. Government professionals, like many others, are inundated with e-mail communication; a significant amount of it which folks consider to be spam or generally a nuisance for other reasons This forces digital government researchers first to build a relationship with key members of the relevant government professional communities. This also requires making the case for your research and why anyone should open another unsolicited e-mail and participate in another survey they do not have time for.  Therefore, if possible an e-mailed survey link should not be the first time that the government professional learns about your organization and the research for which you re collecting. Overall, Webbased surveys are valuable for digital government researchers, but potential challenges should be considered carefully  6. Acknowledgments  This work was partially supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. ITR-0205152 Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation  7. References  1 Boy e r, K  K O l s o n, J  R   J a c k s on, E. C Electronic surveys: Advantages and disadvantages over traditional print survey  Decision Line 32\(4\, 2001, 4-7 2 B ry man A  Social Research Methods \(2 nd ed Oxford University Press, New York, 2004 3 Caf f r e y  L  Ed Information Sharing Between Within Governments Commonwealth Secretariat, London 1998 4 Curra ll S C Ju dg e  T  A  Measuring trust between organizational boundary role persons  Organization Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 64 2\95 151-170 5 D a w e s  S. S Interagency Information Sharing Expected Benefits, Manageable Risks  Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, 15 3\, 1996, 377-394  6 D a w e s  S. S H e lbig N   Building a ResearchPractice Partnership: Lessons from a Government IT Workforce Study Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2007 7 D a w e s  S. S  P a rd o, T  A  200 2  Building Collaborative Digital Government Systems: Systematic Constraints and Effective Practices In W. J. McIver & A K. Elmagarmid, \(Eds Advances in Digital Government Technology, Human Factors, and Policy pp. 259-273 Kluwer Academic Publishers, Norwell, MA, 2002  8 D a w e s  S. S  P r  f onta i ne   L  Understanding New Models of Collaboration for Delivering Government Services  Communications of the ACM, 46 1\03, 4042 9 Dillm a n D.A T o rtora R.D  Bow ke r, D P r inc i ple s  for constructing web surveys. Working paper. Retrieved August 20, 2008 from http://www.sesrc.wsu.edu/dillman/papers/websurveyppr.pd f 10 Eg le ne  O D a w e s  S. S  Sc hne ide r  C. A  Authority and Leadership Patterns in Public Sector Knowledge Networks  The American Review of Public Administration, 37 1\2007, 91-113  11 G il-G a rc a J  R P a r do T  A  Multi-Method Approaches to Digital Government Research: Value Lessons and Implementation Challenges Proceedings of the 39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2006. \(Creswell, J. W Research Design Qualitative, Quantitative, and Mixed Methods Approaches  SAGE Publications, Thousand Oaks, CA, 2003 12 G il-G a rc a J  R., Che ng a l urSm ith, I D u c h e s s i  P Collaborative E-Government: Impediments and Benefits of Information Sharing Projects in the Public Sector  European Journal of Information Systems, 16 2\, 2007 121-133 13 G il-G a rc a J  R., P a r do T  A  Burk e  G  B Government Leadership in Multi-Sector IT-Enabled Networks: Lessons from the Response to the West Nile Virus Outbreak Proceedings of the Leading the Future of the Public Sector: The Third Transatlantic Dialogue Workshop \(May 31 June 2, 2007\niversity of Delaware, Newark, Delaware, USA  14 G il-G a rc a J  R., Sc hne ide r   C P a rd o, T  A   Cresswell, A. M Interorganizational Information Integration in the Criminal Justice Enterprise: Preliminary Lessons from State and County Initiatives Proceedings of the 38th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2005 15 G l a s e r B. G  Basics of Grounded Theory Analysis Emergence vs. Forcing Sociology Press, Mill Valley, CA 1992 16 G l a s e r B. G  Stra us s  A  L  Discovery of Grounded Theory: Strategies for Qualitative Research  Aldine Transaction, Chicago, IL, 1967 17 G r a n e llo, D  H   W h e a t on J  E  Online  Data Collection: Strategies for Research  Journal of Counseling Development  82 4\, 2004, 387-393 18 G un H  Web-based Surveys: Changing the Survey Process  First Monday 7\(2\, 2002 1 Jarven p aa S  L   Ives B   Executive involvement and participation in the management of information technology  MIS Quarterly, 15 2\991, 205-227 20 L a n f r e d C. W  The Paradox of Self-Management Individual and Group Autonomy in Work Groups  Journal of Organization Behavior, 21 5\, 2000, 563-585 21 L e f e v e r, S., D a l, M  Ma tt hia s d ttir, A Online Data Collection in Academic Research: Advantages and Limitations  British Journal of Educational Technology 38 4\, 2007, 574-582 22  P a r d o  T  A G ilG a rc  a J  R Burk e  G  B Sustainable Cross-Boundary Information Sharing In H Chen et al. \(Eds Digital Government: E-Government Research, Case Studies, and Implementation pp. 421-438 Springer, New York, 2008  23  Se g a rs A   G r ov e r V  Strategic Information Systems Planning and Success: An Investigation of the Construct and its Measurement  MIS Quarterly, 22 2 1998, 139-163 24 n n o n D  M J o hns on T  E Se a r c y S., L o tt, A  Using electronic surveys: Advice from survey professionals  Practical Assessment, Research Evaluation 8 \(1 25 us s  A  Cor bin  J    Basics of Qualitative Research. Techniques and Procedures for Developing Grounded Theory Sage Publications, Thousand Oaks, CA 1998 26 U m ba c h  P  D  Web surveys: Best practices  New Directions for Institutional Research 121, 2004, 23-38 27  V a n Se lm M J a nk ow s k i N  W  Conducting online surveys  Quality & Quantity 40\(3\, 2006, 435456  2 W r i g h t  K B   Researching Internet-based populations: Advantages and disadvantages of online survey research, online questionnaire authoring software packages, and web survey services  Journal of ComputerMediated Communication 10\(3\, 2005, 1-19  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


11 nI KK t nn nn nd nd nd nd X yz yz y y z z a      13 The heading estimate  can then be calculated geometrically using the relative displacement of the lateral components of the intersection line in the navigation frame x = East and y = North 14        min,max min,max,atan2  xx yy II II?  \(14 4. THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE USING SYNTHESIZED FEATURES Simulation Procedure This section will describe a simulation that was developed to assess the theoretical heading accuracy possible from ALS data and a perfect synthesized feature.  The first step of the simulation was to define the scanner parameters that reflect those likely to be used in a flight test: 30 lines per second, 10,000 pulses per second, and a  30 deg field of view.  ALS angles, times, and ranges were then simulated using these parameters.  A ground feature was synthesized by replacing the simulated ranges at the correct ground positions with those calculated according to the desired feature parameters \(i.e. plane equations synthesis and plane intersection procedure described in this section is summarized in the block diagram shown in Figure 8  Figure 8: Feature Synthesis and Plane Intersection Block Diagram Table 1: Simulation Parameters Parameter Value Aircraft Altitude 350, m Points in Surface 1 127 Points in Surface 2 248 Feature Length 25.79, m Feature Width 51.12, m The synthesized feature for this paper was based on airborne measurements of the size, location, and roof slope parameters of the AEC hangar at the Ohio University Airport.  For an aircraft at ~350m altitude in the simulation the synthesized hangar would be illuminated by 127 points 


on surface 1 and 248 points on surface 2 contained within a feature footprint with dimensions of 25.79 m long x 51.12 m wide as summarized in Table 1.  The flight profile from a January 2005 flight test [7] was used to establish the aircraft position and orientation over the two second flight duration needed to extract the simulated feature.  For the data collection phase, the hangar building was over flown while collecting GPS, INS, and ALS data.  In the synthesis phase actual GPS and INS information were used, but the ALS data was replaced with simulated data so that the ALS measurement errors could be controlled.  The heading derived from the measured ALS flight data will be compared with the simulation in the next section Two existing simulators were used to generate the ALS scan angle and ranges measurements [9].  An angle simulator was used to produce an array of angles and times that correspond to the laser scanner parameters.  A range simulator was used to produce range estimates by calculating the geometric difference between the ALS height and the terrain crossing \(simulated using a Digital Terrain Elevation Data \(DTED terrain crossing was found by increasing the range until it intersected the terrain and then iterated until the height accuracy was within some threshold \(1 ?m in this case The simulated range accuracy was determined from the height accuracy using the geometric relationship described in \(15 7 cos dHdR =  \(15 where dR = Range accuracy dH = Height accuracy ALS scan angle The top subplot of Figure 9 illustrates the range accuracy threshold used by the simulator \(determined from the height error and \(15 can be seen in the bottom subplot of Figure 9 because of the range iteration technique.  A 1 ?m height accuracy \(iteration threshold sufficiently small \(i.e. approximating true range influence the standard deviation of the final simulated range measurement \(i.e. true range + sensor noise better represent the capabilities of the true ALS, 25 mm of Additive White Gaussian Noise \(AWGN range measurement as shown in the top subplot of Figure 10 following with the Gaussian distribution function shown in the bottom subplot.  The DTED accuracy was not important for this analysis since only the range measurements to the simulated feature were required for the orientation calculations.  The range to the DTED merely provides terrain measurements for height contrast in the feature extraction algorithms  Figure 9: Range Error Distribution from the Simulator   Figure 10: Range Error + Noise Distribution with 25 mm Noise The feature was synthesized by calculating its height using the planar equations for surface 1 and surface 2 of the AEC hangar roof and the illuminated ground pulse positions as shown in \(16 2 22 11   BH BH   


 Surface Surface V V 16 where V = Vertical height H = Horizontal position vector   B = Plane parameters \(Surface 1 or Surface 2 Pulses that fall within a predetermined space \(represented by white space in Figure 11 points.  The DTED terrain heights at these positions were replaced with feature heights from a feature database prior to range simulation. The synthesized feature is shown in Figure 12  Figure 11: Synthesized Feature Footprint   Figure 12: Synthesized Feature Extraction Simulation Results for Typical System Performance Once a feature has been simulated, the feature extraction and plane intersection algorithms described in the previous section are used to determine the feature orientation.  The result of the least squares plane fit is shown in Figure 13 Notice that a gap is present near the ridgeline in Figure 13 This is due to the exclusion of the actual ridge point Because the peak of the roof contains a ridge cap, inclusion of these points in surface 1 or surface 2 would distort the results.  By using the plane intersection method, these few points \(16 hundred other points would remain in the plane.  The height residuals after subtracting the plane fit are shown in Figure 14.  As expected, these height residuals reflect the same accuracy  25 mm 1 shown previously in Figure 10.  The plane residuals shown in Figure 14 can be used to measure the range accuracy directly from the data.  The next section will describe how to use this information to predict the heading accuracy 8  Figure 13: Data Point Segregation and Plane Fit   Figure 14: Plane Fit Residuals The plane parameters, 1B  and 2B  are then used to find the equation of the intersection line as is shown in Figure 15 The intersection line contains heading information for comparison with some reference data.  In this case, the reference was derived from the same range simulation without noise  Figure 15: Plane / Plane Intersection Line Multiple repetitions of the synthesized feature extraction and plane intersection algorithm were used to determine the repeatable accuracy of the technique over 5000 Monte Carlo runs as shown by the block diagram in Figure 8.  The resulting 1? heading accuracy is shown in Figure 16 for  25 mm 1? ALS range accuracy  Figure 16: Heading Accuracy for 25 mm Range Error The error performance is summarized in Table 2.  The bias term is statistically zero \(as would be expected from the zero mean AWGN added to the simulated range heading error is better than a tenth of a degree Table 2: Heading Error Summary Error Type Magnitude Heading Error Mean 4.0778 x 10-4, deg 1? Heading Standard Deviation 0.0395, deg 0.69, mrad 


1? Heading Standard Deviation 0.0395, deg 0.69, mrad Sensitivity Analysis for Varying System Performance In order to understand how the heading error varies with parameters such as laser ranging accuracy, position accuracy, and heading bias, a sensitivity analysis was conducted.  For computational efficiency the number of repetitions at each parameter setting was reduced to 1000 For each set of 1000 repetitions of the plane intersection algorithm, the one parameter was linearly increased and its affect on the heading accuracy was assessed.  The range accuracy will be considered first, whereby the simulated range noise was increase in 46 steps from 0.001m until 0.31m.  The heading error is computed by comparing the noisy simulated feature intersection with a noise-free feature intersection.  Figure 17 shows the increase in heading standard deviation as the range standard deviation increases while Figure 18 shows the rate of change of the standard deviation per unit of range noise.  Although not shown here the heading resolution bias is zero-mean up to 15 cm and increases to almost 0.6 deg for 30 cm of range noise 9  Figure 17: Heading Error Standard Deviation  Figure 18: Heading Error Standard Deviation Growth Rate per Unit of Range Noise The results shown in Figure 17 illustrate a fairly linear increase in heading error growth for small range errors \(less than 12 cm rate of error growth is constant \(~1.53 deg/m range error.  The results shown in the previous section can be directly estimated using these figures.  If a range noise standard deviation of 25 mm is multiplied by a 1.53 deg/m error growth rate, the predicted heading accuracy would be 0.668 mrad.  This predicted accuracy is approximately the same as the accuracy found from simulation summarized in Table 2 The next parameter to be considered was a constant heading bias.  For the algorithm presented in this paper, the heading bias must be consistent with the position error as would be the case for an IMU operating in a dead reckoning mode Consequently, a heading error was simulated from 0 to 2 degrees in the inertial measurements and then the ENU position was corrupted using the erroneous heading in the direction cosines matrix.  Figure 19 illustrates the residual heading resolution error bias after the simulated heading bias has been removed.  Figure 20 illustrates the standard deviation of the heading resolution error  Figure 19: Heading Resolution Error Bias as a Function of Injected Heading Bias   Figure 20: Heading Resolution Error Standard Deviation as a Function of Injected Heading Bias Up to 2 deg of injected heading bias, there is not discernable effect on the heading resolution accuracy in either the mean or the standard deviation.  This illustrates that the algorithm can detect a constant heading bias without sensitivity to its magnitude The final parameter to be considered was position noise The position noise was varied linearly from 0 to 10 cm in 48 steps.  The response of the error mean to position noise is shown in Figure 21 while the response of the error standard deviation to position noise is shown in Figure 22 10  Figure 21: Heading Resolution Error Bias as a Function of Injected Position Noise   Figure 22: Heading Resolution Error Standard 


Figure 22: Heading Resolution Error Standard Deviation as a Function of Injected Position Noise As the injected position noise increases, the heading error bias remained nearly constant at the mm-level as would be expected since the injected position noise was AWGN Similarly, the heading error standard deviation increases as the injected position noise increases.  As with the laser range noise, the position noise will also determine the heading determination standard deviation.  Inertial positions are generally low noise \(better than 1 cm source is not felt to be as significant of a contributor \(&lt; 0.04 deg As an aside, it is interesting to note that this error will increase slightly as the aircraft height increases.  This is thought to be due to the reduced number of laser pulses that comprise each plane in the intersection equation.  For example, if the aircraft height increases from 350m to 400 m, the pulse count decreases to 68 pulses in surface 1 and 141 pulses in surface 2.  The heading accuracy will decrease by approximately 0.01 degrees 5. FLIGHT TEST PROOF OF CONCEPT  Figure 23: Flight Path over AEC Hangar The flight test data was collected in January 2005 and provided ALS measurements containing several features at the Ohio University Airport including the AEC hangar [7 The flight path over the hangar is shown in Figure 23.  The ALS settings during this flight test were more optimal for this application than for mapping since the gaps between scan lines was large compared to the gap between pulses in a line.  In September 2005, a static GPS survey was conducted \(relative to the KUNI GPS Continuously Operating Reference Station the AEC hangar.  The GPS survey provided an absolute reference to compare with the ALS measurements.  The lateral measurement accuracy of this survey was thought to be on the order of  20 cm because of antenna placement uncertainty Planes were fit to the ALS data from each side of the hangar roof as described previously as shown in Figure 24.  The plane fits are shown in lighter colors \(cyan and magenta than the measured data \(blue and red  Figure 24: Two Planes fit to the Data  Figure 24 is only intended to provide an overview since the plane fit residuals contain more information as shown in Figure 25.  The plane fit residuals indicate 9 cm of height accuracy \(1 11  Figure 25: Plane Fit Residuals The resulting plane intersection line was overlaid on the ALS measurements as shown in Figure 26.  The line was a close visual match, but when comparing the calculated line with the surveyed line, slight errors can be observed  Figure 26: Line Formed by Plane Intersection A closer examination of the two lines in the horizontal plane reveals their differences in the heading as shown in Figure 27  Figure 27: Intersection Line Comparison As mentioned previously, the measured plane-fit residuals provide an indication of the heading accuracy that could be expected from the real data if the survey was perfect.  Since the flight test residuals were within the linear region of the empirical error curves shown in Figure 17, the expected heading accuracy should be predictable.  Since the measured range accuracy is 9 cm \(from the plane-ft residuals heading accuracy is expected to be 0.1377 deg \(at 1.53 


deg/m to 2.4 mrad.  This accuracy is better than the typical heading alignment accuracy of a commercial navigation grade INS The actual heading angle of the two vectors is summarized in Table 3 Table 3: Hangar Ridge Vector Comparison Heading Survey 60.9436, deg Intersection 61.8772, deg Difference 0.9336, deg 16.29, mrad The importance of this proof of concept was to demonstrate the technique and to show that the accuracy can be predicted.  In this case there are several sources of uncertainty that might explain part of the performance degradation The reference survey introduced lateral antenna placement errors of  20cm.  The antenna placement uncertainty is expected to be the dominant error source in the measured data presented here.  Over a 25 m baseline, a  20 cm placement error will become a 0.916 deg pointing error worst case prediction using flight test data Further effort is needed to make a more accurate ground feature survey, but the concept of heading determination from ALS plane intersections has been demonstrated 6. CONCLUSIONS This paper presented results that leverage the accuracy and high number of \(i.e., oversampled measurements along with a priori surveyed features to determine airborne platform heading.  Plane fitting has the affect of averaging the oversampled measurements and can deliver mrad-level heading observations.  The ALS-derived heading information shown in this paper could be used to periodically calibrate tactical grade IMU heading biases while in flight, to perform an ALS / IMU calibration prior to a terrain aided landing, or simply to stabilize the inertial heading measurements when GPS is unavailable.  A simulation was presented to show the theoretical performance of heading determination from plane intersections using typical ALS parameters.  With a perfect survey, the heading accuracy was better than 1 mrad.  Using the same simulation software, a theoretical sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine the effect of range noise, heading bias, and position noise on the heading accuracy.  The heading standard deviation was shown to be a function of the range measurement and position standard deviations.  Inertial positions are generally low noise, so this error source was not deemed to be as significant of a contributor as the range noise.  The heading error magnitude did not change the performance in a noticeable way. This theoretical performance assessment was then compared with 12 flight test data.  While the flight test performance was not as good as expected, the error sources were justified.  Even with large survey uncertainties, the heading measurement performance was still within 1 deg.  If a better survey was available, the flight test results were expected to be accurate to within a few mrad Operationally, there are many things than can be done to improve these results.  This paper discussed flight over a single building.  Accuracy can potentially be improved by flying over multiple buildings of larger sizes and at lower altitudes or other types of features.  Additionally, the heading error growth rates could be predicted by tracking the heading change while flying over a building or between two buildings.  With careful attention to calibration and measurement accuracy, these heading alignments can potentially be made at a higher accuracy than a navigation grade INS can align its heading REFERENCES 1] Schenk, T  Modeling and recovering systematic 


1] Schenk, T  Modeling and recovering systematic errors in airborne laser scanners  Proceedings of the OEEPE workshop on Airborne Laserscanning and Interferometric SAR for Detailed Digital Elevation Models, OEEPE Publication no. 40, 2001, pp. 40-48  2] Crombaghs, M.J.E., Brugelmann, R., and d Min, E.J  On the Adjustment of Overlapping Strips of Laseraltimeter Height Data  International Archives of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 2000, 33 B3/1   3] Dickman, J., and Uijt de Haag, M  Aircraft Heading Measurement Potential from an Airborne Laser Scanner Using Edge Extraction  Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 3-10, 2007  4] Kraus, K., Pfeifer, N  Determination of Terrain Models in Wooded Areas with Airborne Laser Scanner Data  ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 1998, 53, pp. 193-203  5] Maas, H., Vosselman, G  Two Algorithms for Extracting Building Models from Raw Laser Altimetry Data  ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 1999, 54, pp. 193-203  6] Venable, D., Campbell, J., and Uijt de Haag, M  Feature Extraction and Separation in Airborne Laser Scanner Terrain Integrity Monitors  Digital Avionics Systems Conference, 2005  7] Campbell, J. L., M. Uijt de Haag, van Graas, F  Terrain Referenced Precision Approach Guidance   Proceedings of the ION National Technical Meeting 2005, San Diego, CA, January 24-26, 2005, pp. 643653  8] http://www.geom.umn.edu/software/download/COPYI NG.html, accessed May 2007  9] V. Nguyen, et. al  A Comparison of Line Extraction Algorithms Using 2D Laser Rangefinder for Indoor Mobile Robotics  Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, Aug. 2-6, 2005, pp. 1929-1934  10] Vadlamani, A  Preliminary Design and Analysis of a LIDAR Based Obstacle Detection System   Proceedings of the 24th Digital Avionics Systems Conference  13 BIOGRAPHY Jeff Dickman graduated from Ohio University in 2008 with a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering His research emphasizes navigation system integration and sensor stabilization.  He has also been involved with GPS landing system research and antenna design and measurement.  He is presently working on vision-aided navigation systems.  He is a member of the IEEE ION, AIAA, Eta Kappa Nu, and Tau Beta Pi  Maarten Uijt de Haag is an Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering at Ohio University and a Principal Investigator with the Ohio University 


Investigator with the Ohio University Avionics Engineering Center.  He earned his Ph.D. from Ohio University and holds a B.S.E.E. and M.S.E.E from Delft University of Technology located in the Netherlands.  He has been involved with GPS landing systems  research, advanced signal processing techniques for GPS receivers, GPS/INS integrated systems, and terrain-referenced navigation systems.  The latter includes the development of terrain data base integrity monitors as an enabling technology for Synthetic Vision Systems and autonomous aircraft operation      pre></body></html 


           7 C ur re nt ly n ot w or ki ng 2  0 0 5  0 0 8 0 04 0 04 0 0 1 0 16  0 16             8 C ur re nt ly in e du ca tio n2   0 6 


6 7  0 01 0 1 9 0 08  0 03 0 6 8 0 0 7 0 3 2           9 C ur re nt ly w or ki ng 2  0 2 8  0 03 0 18  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 64  0 00 0 1 4 0 8 9   


        10 E du ca tio n ac hi ev ed 3  3 5 7 1 5 2  0 04 0 02 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 16  0 02 0 1 6 0 13  0 0 6         11 D is pe ns ab le in co m e   


  21 0 9 2 72 7  0 14  0 0 1 0 09  0 08  0 2 0 0 00 0 0 4 0 18  0 1 6 0 0 1        In te rn et u sa ge                     


  12 A ct iv e in te rn et u sa ge 1  0 0 2 0 9 6 0 2 1 0 25  0 11  0 12  0 10  0 0 4 0 05  0 0 8 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 12        13 H ou rs o nl in e h ou rs 


rs   2 6 5 3 0 3  0 04 0 12  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 40  0 0 7 0 0 7 0 4 7 0 5 3 0 07  0 1 1 0 07       14 W illi ng ne ss to p ay 1  1 8 3 0 6 3  0 03 0 10 


10  0 07  0 08  0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 01  0 00 0 0 5 0 14  0 04 0 05      G am e sp ec ifi c va ria bl es                      15 T en 


ur e w ee ks   2 8 2 3 5 2 0 2 6 0 31  0 0 9 0 01 0 12  0 0 4 0 02 0 0 9 0 0 9 0 07  0 02 0 13  0 08  0 0 4    16 C ro ss o ve r on o ffl in e 4  0 1 5 


5 1 1 1 0 1 9 0 11  0 13  0 18  0 2 0 0 1 4 0 0 7 0 14  0 1 1 0 0 4 0 08  0 15  0 0 5 0 01 0 07    17 S at is fa ct io n1   18 7 5 1 3 16  0 18  0 00 


00 0 44  0 52  0 1 4 0 0 3 0 02 0 07  0 0 9 0 1 4 0 10  0 08  0 0 6 0 09  0 0 1 0 13   18 C om m itm en t1  0 6 2 0 8 3 0 3 1 0 13  0 37  0 39  0 0 7 


7 0 0 6 0 02 0 03  0 0 4 0 1 3 0 14  0 17  0 0 5 0 09  0 07  0 19  0 58  S ou rc e O w n ca lc ul at io n N ot e N  1 3 89 o bs er va tio ns S ig ni fic an ce le ve ls 


ls  p  0 05 S D  S ta nd ar d de vi at io n 1 5 po in t L ik er t s ca le ra ng in g fro m 2 to 2  2 du m m y va ria bl e 3 o rd in al v ar ia bl e ra ng in g fro m v oc at io na l e du ca 


tio n to P h D 4 n um be r o f c on ta ct s   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


