Applicability of H.264 in Telemedicine Reference Model Morsalin Uz Zoha Department of Computer Science and Engineering Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology Dhaka-1000, Bangladesh appolozoha@yahoo.com   Abstract 227 Health care is a critical social issue in all over the world nowadays, especially in small town or rural areas where expert doctors, nurses, electronic equipments and other infrastructures are not adequate. As a promising approach to address this issue, telemedicine has received much attention Telemedicine is a multimedia application where real time video audio, text, graphics and vital signs are transmitted through the 
existing telecommunication facilities. Video data is the most dominant part in terms of information contribution of telemedicine electronic signal. However it requires huge bandwidth among the other components of signals. Reducing the transmission bit rates concomitantly obtaining the acceptable video quality is still a big challenge for researchers in telemedicine applications in real-time through the band-limited wired or wireless channels, especially through the latter one which accommodates only very low-bit transmission. This paper introduces an advanced video transmission platform based on H.264 compression standard. The efficiency and effectiveness of 
the presented platform are demonstrated by experimental results   Keywords 227 H.264 standard, Medical Video, MPEG-4 Video standard, Telemedicine, Video Compression  I  I NTRODUCTION  In the decade of  90\222s of the last century the rapid growth of computer and information technology gave a rebirth of telemedicine. Innovation of new technologies enables telemedicine systems to grow up in more complex and feature-rich technological mann  In general sense where medical care relies on the face to face communication between patients and doctors, in telemedicine concept physicians treat a patient who is some 
distance away. The primary purpose of telemedicine is to reach health care service to patient who is some way isolated from specialized care. Telemedicine provides services on 24 hours a day and seven days a week basis. The patient may be living in remote place like rural area or in a ship in deep ocean and even in space craft. In countries where access to medical services is restricted by distance and poor transportation and where health care services are inadequate telemedicine offers a great opportunity and possibilities to distribute medical services by utilizing information and communication technology The necessity of the telemedicine reference model has been recognized by ITU-T/D to realize telemedicine equipment portability internationally [2 u t telem e d i ci n e  
equipment has not been standardized and the interoperability of the medical equipment is difficult because of the different interfaces. Therefore, it is necessary to have the standardization of the interface between telemedicine equipment and telecommunication systems. Though some telemedicine reference model has been proposed, yet there is no standard reference model for telemedicine. In 2005 Komiya proposed a telemedicine reference model t h i s  model the functional interfaces of a telemedicine system can be shown as in Figure 1 \226    Fig. 1 
 Telemedicine reference model  MDEQ: Medical Equipment, PROC: Processor, TPH Telecom Protocol Handling, NTI: Network Termination 
Interface M interface: Medical Equipment to Processor Interface Electrical signal from/to various medical and documentation equipment DM interface: Digitized Medical Information Interface Compressed digitized medical data \(e.g. H.264, MPEG \205 T interface: User-Network Interface U interface: Subscriber transmission Interface All these interfaces are indicating functional interfaces and not necessarily are appeared as physical interfaces. Original medical information to be sent from patients, Physicians nurses, pharmacists is the input to the medical equipment They are pulse, temperature, brain, internal organs and medical documents such as  medical records, medical data and prescriptions. All the information are sent to processor for further processing such as bandwidth reduction of various 
original data and sent to telecommunication protocol handling to be adapted to different networks and finally sent over subscriber transmission system via network termination interface \(NTI\econstructed medical information at the receiving side of this model would be wave forms, X-Ray photos, MRI photos, CT scanned photos and medical records medical data, prescriptions. Information from subscriber transmission will be terminated by various networks such as Public Switched Telephone Network, Integrated Services Digital Network, Internet, mobile networks, satellite networks and more. Mobile U-interface will be applied for ambulance car and wireless U-interface is necessary at rural areas or disaster sites. In t is s u g g e s t ed th at t h e in ter f ac e  
 M D E Q T P H  P R O C N T I  M DM T U 


 to reduce bit consumption in regions of no medical interest. Therefore, it is possible to select the best coding mode so as to achieve a compromise between high compression performance and good quality for encoding videos by accurately detecting the ROI. If H.264 is applied in medical video compression, the best coding mode that represents the characteristics of medical video contents may be selected correctly and hence high performance achieved. Thus, H.264 is expected to be effective in telemedicine applications  III  E XPERIMENT R ESULT  The evaluation of experimental result includes the comparison between MPEG-4 and H.264 for applying the better one in DM interface standardization of the telemedicine reference model proposed by Komiya MPEG-4 is implemented with MoMuSys a n d H.264 is implemented with H.264 reference model version JM6.1e [16  In o r d e r to d eter m i n e th e targ et b it rate, f i rst t h e test sequences are encoded by using a fixed QP in H.264 without rate control. After this has been done, the actual consumed number of bits is obtained and used as the target in \(1\o reduce distortion in the ROI \(Region of Interest\ and increase i 327 INTER 8 8 327 INTRA 16 16 327 mode, each block can be further divided independently into 8 8 327  4 8 327  8 4 to be standardized would be M interface or DM interface because other interfaces T and U are already standardized The digital imaging and communications in medicine DICOM\ the most commonly used stan 5 h i c h facilitates the distribution and viewing of medical images. It can be used for standardization for DM interface. DICOM allows both lossless and lossy compression for various kinds of video/image sequences. To address the needs of different applications, many video compression standards, such as ITU-T H.261, H.263, ISO/IEC MPEG-1, MPEG-2, MPEG-4 and H.264 have been ratified over the past decade. In [6  MPEG-4 has been used for the compression of ultrasound sequences. Experimental results showed that with support of object-based coding and compression efficiency, MPEG-4 is a good solution for compression of ultrasound sequences Compression ratios of up to 90:1 have been obtained with objective image quality similar to H.263. Additionally, using MPEG-4 to encode different parts of an ultrasound sequence as separate objects would benefit telemedicine applications In EG4 w a s als o  u s ed f o r t h e co m p res s i o n  of  echocardiography sequences, which can greatly reduce the bit rate of echocardiography sequences for both archiving and transmission purposes.  The above works have shown that MPEG-4 can be effectively used in telemedicine application and can be a solution for DM interface standardization A recent video compression standard Advanced Video Coding/H.264 has become the focus of research since it has emerged. H.264/AVC has achieved a significant improvement in rate-distortion efficiency relative to existing standards [8 1 2   In th is p a p e r th e ap p licab ilit y o f H.2 6 4 is examined in telemedicine reference model in DM interface standardization based on the work of Yu et al w h e r e H.264 rate control algorithm is improved with better perceptual quality. A comparison between MPEG-4 and H.264 will also be made to asses which standard performs better in telemedicine application The rest of the paper is organized as follows. The next section briefly reviews the H.264 standard. Section III presents the experimental results comparing MPEG-4 and H.264 on two typical medical videos. This paper concludes with section IV II  A  B RIEF R EVIEW OF H.264 A  H.264 Overview The recent international video coding standard H.264/AVC  a s  been approv ed by IT U T as  Recommendation H.264 and by ISO/IEC as International Standard 14 496-10 \(MPEG-4 part 10\dvanced Video Coding \(AVC\.264 aims at providing functionality similar to existing video coding standards such as H.263+ and MPEG-4 but with significantly better compression performance and improved support for reliable transmission It is not a fundamentally different method, but rather a significant refinement of well-established methods. The elements common to all video coding standards are present in the current H.264/AVC recommendation. Some new techniques, such as spatial prediction in Intra coding adaptive block size motion compensation 4 4 327 In INTER 8 8 327 or 4 4 327 subpartitions. To select the best mode for each MB, all the MB modes are tried and the one that leads to the least rate-distortion \(RD\st is selected. This is to achieve the best tradeoff between the rate and distortion performance and is called rate distortion optimization \(RDO\O is achieved by selecting the mode with the least RD cost using Lagrangian multiplier i 327 integer transformation, multiple reference pictures \(up to seven reference pictures\d content adaptive binary arithmetic coding \(CABAC\ed in this standard. The testing results   a v e sh o w n t h at H  264 h a s ac h i e v ed  substantial superiority of video quality over that of H.263 MPEG-2, and MPEG-4. It has achieved up to 50% in bit rate saving compared to H.263 or MPEG-4 coding schemes. This means that H.264 offers significantly higher coding quality with the same bit rates [12  T h eref o r e, H 2 6 4 w ill b e a  serious contender for a variety of next generation multimedia applications B  Rate Distortion Optimization One of the novel features of H.264 video coding is the use of seven different macroblock \(MB\ coding modes so that the temporal and spatial details in an MB are best presented These coding modes are SKIP, INTER 16 16 some regions that are of special interests to the doctors and the other regions are of no diagnostic significance Hence, the employment of RDO in H.264 makes it especially suitable for coding of medical images: we may decrease the Lagrangian multiplier i 002 The procedure can be defined as follows [14    Ri i Di Ji Ji 002  min 1  where J i is the RD cost of an MB coded using Mode i , R i is the data bits it consumed, and D i is the distortion it caused The mode that has the minimum RD cost is selected as the optimum coding mode for this MB In most medical images and video sequences, there exist 002 002 327   327 INTER 8 16 327 INTER 16 8 327  INTRA 4 4 


 Sequence Target Bit Rate kbps Bit  Rate \(Kbps Bit Rate Saving  MPEG-4 H.264 CT 438.19 450.93 438.19 2.83 285.03 303.56 285.03 6.10 197.55 214.89 197.55 8.07 145.10 162.38 145.10 10.64 Echocardiogr aphy 2266.14 2266.51 2266.14 0.02 1317.29 1292.83 1317.29 1.89 667.08 703.83 667.08 5.22 308.26 327.52 308.26 5.88  TABLE  V  A VERAGE PSNR  D IFFERENCE AND BIT  RATE  D IFFERENCE B ETWEEN H.264 AND MPEG-4   Sequence Average PSNR Difference over Full Range of Bit Rate \(dB Average Bit Rate Difference over Full Range of PSNR CT 4.35 100 Echocardiography 1.51 59.71 bit rate in the subsequent experiments. Considering different network conditions, the QPs used in the experiment are 28 32, 36, and 40, respectively. Thus, there are four types of target bit rate for each test sequence Table I lists the test video sequences used in the experiment. The conditions of the experiment in H.264 are listed in Table II. In the experiment, it is only considered the features enabled in the Main Profile of H.264 The test conditions of MPEG-4 are  set to match H.264 as much as possible. For example, the frame type is IPPP, the frame rate is 30 fps, and the search range is 32, etc.    Table III and IV show the results achieved from MPEG-4 and H.264 without rate control. For each sequence, four bit rates from high to low are selected as the target bit rates. To see the difference between MPEG-4 and H.264, it is shown PSNR gain and bit rate saving in the tables III and IV. PSNR gain is the PSNR difference in decibels \(dB\ween H.264 and MPEG-4. Bit rate saving is the bit rate difference in percentage between H.264 and MPEG-4 It is obvious from Table III and Table IV that H.264 performs much better than MPEG-4 when applied in the test medical video sequences. For sequence \223CT\224, H.264 obtains positive PSNR gain and bit rate saving in most cases. Even a significantly high PSNR gain of 6.95 dB is earned at high bit rate. For sequence \223Echocardiography,\224 H.264 also obtains positive PSNR gain and bit rate saving in most cases To see the overall performance comparison for the test sequences, we employ average PSNR difference and average bit rate difference as performance measur h es e measures are often used to compare RD performance between two different methods. The results are shown in Table V It can be seen from Table V that H.264 performs much better than MPEG-4 in average PSNR difference and bit rate difference. This result is in accordance with what has been described in the JVT report [8 T h i s sh o w s t h at H  264 i s  a more efficient solution than MPEG-4 for medical video compression   TABLE  II T EST C ONDITIONS I N H.264  Frame T yp e IPPP Frame Rate 30 fps Slice Mode OFF RDO ON Rate Control OFF Hardmard OFF Search Range 32 Restrict Search Range No restriction Symbol Mode CABAC Partition Mode No data partition Out File Mode Annex B   TABLE  I T EST S EQUENCE   For subjective quality evaluation here the double stimulus continuous quality scale \(DSCQS\ test method is used which is described in ITU-R BT.500-10 T h e m e an opinion score \(MOS\cales for observers to vote for the quality  after viewing are excellent, good, fair, poor and bad Correspondingly, the scores are 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Five observers were involved in the experiments, including a medical doctor. All of them have some knowledge of image processing. From the evaluation result, it shows again that H.264 performs much better than MPEG-4 for telemedicine applications 327  60 Echocardiography YUV 480 640 327  60  Sequence Format Size Frame Number CT YUV 512 512  Sequence Target Bit Rate kbps PSNR \(dB PSNR Gain dB MPEG-4 H.264 CT 438.19 36.12 43.07 6.95 285.03 35.05 40.55 5.50 197.55 35.10 37.73 2.63 145.10 35.07 34.91 0.16 Echocardiogr aphy 2266.14 35.79 38.09 2.30 1317.29 32.94 35.15 2.21 667.08 30.98 32.44 1.46 308.26 30.41 29.81 0.60   TABLE  IV R ESULTS A CHIEVED I N T ERMS OF BIT  R AT E  S AV I N G    TABLE  III R ESULTS A CHIEVED I N T ERMS OF PSNR  G AIN  


IV  C ONCLUSIONS  Unlike in some other video compression applications where quality could be compromised with compression ratio it is a very challenging task to compress medical videos as it requires both high quality and high compression ratio. On the one hand, for diagnostic purposes, it is essential that the compression process causes no tangible loss of detail and introduces no noticeable artifacts which could be otherwise misinterpreted as being pathological in nature. On the other hand, due to the limitation of storage and transmission and the huge amount of medical videos, high compression ratio is often required. As a result, to standardize DM interface of the proposed telemedicine reference model it requires an efficient rate-distortion optimized video coding standard. In this paper experiment result shows that the latest block-oriented motioncompensation-based codec standard H.264 performs excellent in rate-distortion optimization by outperforming MPEG-4 both in PSNR gain and bit rate saving. This indicates H.264 is a good solution for telemedicine application and is applicable to be used in standardization of the DM interface of the telemedicine reference model A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The author wishes to thank Dr. Safiqul Kabir Khan from Dhaka Medical College Hospital, Bangladesh for his participation in the subjective quality evaluation of reconstructed frames of \223CT\224 and \223Echocardiography\224 sequences  R EFERENCES  1  CA Thiyagarajan, M. Clarke, \223A Systemic Review of Technical Evaluation in Telemedicine Systems\224, presented at Engineering in Medical and Biology Society 2006, 28 th Annual International Conference of the IEEE, 2006 Aug 30-sept 3, New York City USA pp.6320-6323 2  ITU-T, ITU-T Final Report- ITU-T/D Workshop on standardization in E-health, 23-25 May 2003, Geneva 3  R. Komiya, \223Telemedicine Reference Model Proposal\224, Power Point Presentation Slides, APT 3 rd Telemedicine Workshop 2005, 27-28 January 2005, KL 4  NEMA, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine \(DICOM Part 1: Introduction and Overview, National Electrical Manufactures Association, 2004 5  Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine \(DICOM\rt 3 Information Object Definitions, 2004 6  C. Lau, J. E. Cabral, A. H. Rambhia, and Y. M. Kim, \223MPEG-4 coding of ultrasound sequences,\224 in Proc. SPIE vol. 3976, San Diego CA, Feb. 2000, pp. 573\226579 7  P. Barbier, M. Alimento, G. Berna, D. Cavoretto, F. Celeste, M Muratori, and M. D. Guazzi, \223Clinical validation of different echocardiographic motion pictures expert group-4 algorithms and compression levels for telemedicine,\224 in Proc. Medinfo 2004 San Francisco, CA, Sep. 2004 8  T. Wiegand, G. J. Sullivan, G. Bjontegaard, and A. Luthra, \223Over view of the H.264/AVC video coding standard\224 IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol vol. 13, no. 7, pp. 560\226576, Jul. 2003 9  Information Technology\227Coding of Audio-Visual Objects\227Part 10 Advanced Video Coding, ISO/IEC FDIS 14496-10, 2003   A. Joch, F. Kossentini, and P. Nasiopoulos, \223A performance analysis of the ITU-T draft H.26L video coding standard,\224 in Proc. 12th Int Packetvideo Workshop, Pittsburgh, PA, Apr. 2002   S. Saponara, C. Blanch, K. Denolf, and J. Bormans, \223The JVT advanced video coding standard: complexity and performance analysis on a tool-by-tool basis,\224 in Proc. 13th Int. Packetvideo Workshop Nantes, France Apr. 2003   T. Hallbach, \223H.264 video compression standard,\224 in Proceedings of 6 th Nordic Signal Processing Symposium, Bergen, Norway Oct. 2003   H. Yu, Z. Lin, F. Pan, \223Applications and Improvement of H.264 in Medical Video Compression\224 IEEE Trans  Circuits Syst. I: Regular Papers vol. 52, no. 12, pp. 2707\2262716, Dec. 2005   T. Wiegand, H. Schwarz, A. Joch, F. Lossentini, and G. J. Sullivan 223Rate-constrained coder control and comparison of video coding standards,\224 IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol vol. 13, no. 7 pp. 688\226703, Jul. 2003   Reference Model MoMuSys, MPEG. [Onlin A v a i la b l e  http://www.ganesh.org/~pmeerw/MPEG4_MoMuSys-FDIS-V1.0990 812-bugfixed.tar.gz   Reference Model JM6.1e, JVT. [Online A v ail a bl e  f t p f t p  im tcfiles.org   G. Bjontegaard, \223Calculation of average PSNR differences between RD-curves,\224 in Proc. ITU-T Q.6/SG16 VCEG 13th Meeting Austin TX, Apr. 2001, Doc. VCEG-M33   Methodology for the Subjective Assessment of the Quality of Television Pictures ITU-R Recomm. BT.500-10, Mar. 2000          


the customers, the duration of which depends on the customer and its ability to receive electronic invoices have been one reason for the increased information exchange. The pilot projects have demanded discussion, communication and exchange of information between the two parties as the person responsible for billing explained We have been discussing, sending messages, exchanging information, making customer visits, going through processes together with the customer As an example, Lindström has gone through all the invoicing processes together with its customers. After the pilot projects, the cooperation has continued, and the personnel have solved invoicing problems with the customers daily. The positive impact as a result of the more intensive information exchange is that the customers are more committed to Lindström The commitment stems from the trust that is generated through electronic invoicing. Paper invoices are sometimes lost in the mail and electronic invoicing is much safer. Trust is also generated through the common efforts in improving the functioning of the electronic invoicing practices Moreover, the greater sharing of information in problem situations improves the quality of invoicing in the future, and facilitates the development as Magnet [20 stated in  his article Contrary to the invoicing department, the implementation of electronic invoicing has not had an important effect on the sales processes. One of the minor changes has been that the sales persons have to determine whether the customer uses online invoicing, when they negotiate the terms of contract with the customers. In the customer service, the information exchange has slightly decreased due to the better updated customer information that has to be gone through when establishing new electronic invoicing customers and has to be updated regularly Also from the sales point of view, it is a significant benefit of electronic invoicing that the maintaining of customer information has become easier in electronic format   The validity of information content in invoices has not been a problem at Lindström since the implementation of electronic invoicing. Instead various data contents have caused extra work after the pilot projects because all the customers have special needs concerning data content in invoices Lindström has been forced to go through the whole invoicing material before dispatch and to check delivery addresses and the requirements of data content including customer s cost pools, e-invoicing address, account numbers and contact persons. The maintaining of the required information requires continuous cooperation In addition, there are other laborious effects in the information exchange caused by the implementation of electronic invoicing Our invoicing system allows us to determine the accounts according to each customer s book-keeping: in a way, we perform tasks on the behalf of our customers Furthermore, if a customer has placed an additional order and this has not been taken into account in the total sum of the quota, the invoicing department has to make a manual adjustment. In the ideal scenario, the system would be integrated with the customer s system and an electronic message would be forwarded to the very end in order to minimize manual work Instead, the time spent for information exchange due to reclamations caused by defects, such as a wrong invoicing price or quantity, has not decreased or increased in the customer service. Thus, the personnel still spends plenty of time going through the reclamations. However, there is one exception that the receiver s address has not been a reason for reclamation as often as earlier A significant part of the reclamations is incurred due to false e-invoicing address. Controlling the address is a real challenge for the sender organization still today. The addresses are formed according to the standard SFS5748 with a maximum length of 17 characters containing the Finnish Tax Administration code 0037 according to the standard ISO6523, the Ycode \(8 marks\d additional 5 marks freely chosen for example a cost pool or a sub-level of organization. The structure of the e-invoicing address is officially defined but they are not certified by any official organization, and, therefore, they are freely formed by each individual organization  T h e address is established only once for each new customer but they are usually changed afterwards Especially larger customers tend to alter their einvoicing addresses as they have several business units Furthermore, the speed of information exchange has changed due to the e-invoicing. The speed of invoicing and payment transactions has increased due to the electronic invoicing and due to the outsourced encashment service.  The handling process of invoices has been improved and invoices reach customers three days earlier than before implementing electronic invoicing. Since the implementation of electronic invoicing in 2003 invoices have been paid three days earlier on the average, and thus the period of circulation of invoices within the company is three days shorter. One notable reason for shortening of payment times is the externalized collection of charges and therefore a realistic estimate for shortening due to electronic invoicing is only one day. In order to improve the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


circle time in the future, the customers  miscellaneous payment terms should be unified From the sales point of view, transparency of information exchange has not improved because the sales personnel are not able to see invoicing information via the current information system. The reporting has also remained the same because the internal reports meant for sales management have been in use both before and after the implementation of electronic invoicing, and all transactions are entered to the ledger according to the same cycle and invoiced every fourth week as earlier From the invoicing department s point of view transparency of information exchange has improved and the exact dispatch time of invoices is easily available. Also, errors in dispatching are automatically reported. In addition, one positive change has been the better control in collecting overdue payments because the ledger is integrated with invoicing; for example, due dates of invoices can be easily changed. From the customer s point of view, if the invoice does not match with the original order they have to correct this manually For the time being, there are not ongoing development projects relating to the information exchange. The next project will relate to a transfer of customer s order reference into an invoice. Another project will relate to the form of invoicing material because the Finvoice standard is insufficient to the purposes of Lindström \(data is not transferred clearly to the customers\.  According to the research conducted by the Euro Banking Association \(EBA and Innopay [22, p th e s t an dardization of th e  electronic invoice as an exchangeable message is clearly needed and there must be flexibility to meet the industry specific and individual requirements One single standard for all invoices may be hard to achieve. Therefore, the invoice needs to be divided into \(1\ a generic part containing information about the trading entities and information relevant for a tax settlement, accounting and payment initiation, and 2\ industry specific part with details about the underlying trade and requirements of the authorities which also require proper definition. The electronic invoice not only contains information relevant to the invoice, but also information relevant to the exchange of the invoice  4.2.2. Operational linkages The first of the two significant changes in the operational linkages, due to the electronic invoicing has been the existence of operators between the seller and the buyer. The operator s core role is to operate between the seller and the buyer, and to convert material established by different invoicing systems into the form that is according to the receiver s requirements. The existence of operators is necessary because it would be too expensive for the sellers to convert all material to the different forms by themselves The operators have a significant role in the information exchange between the seller and the buyer, and therefore they should be able to discuss with each other and cooperate successfully in order to avoid unnecessary problems, such as disappearing invoices. The checking system between the operators could be one solution to avoid disappearing invoices and to secure seamless information flow from the beginning to the end. According to Lindström operators have a huge challenge to improve their cooperation because it has not been seamless so far  One problem has been the conversion wall between the operators because circling systems of operators interpret invoices in different ways In addition, according to Lindström, the transition from one operator to another will be a real challenge and a significant obstacle if competition between operators will increase and customers will want to switch operators more often The problem for us is that Lindström should be aware of all switches in their customers operators in order to avoid transition problems The change of operator codes could be accomplished without problems and extra manual work avoided by using consistent standard of all operators in the EU area. The standardization between operators has been a problem since the beginning of electronic invoicing because all operators have their own requirements and codes Furthermore, sometimes operators make changes in their software without informing other parties and then the invoices get stuck somewhere along the way The extra time and work spent due to the switches of operators is a remarkable change compared to the previous invoicing system According to Lindström, the seller produces invoicing material and it should be the operators  responsibility to solve the problems during the distribution process. Sometimes operators make changes to their software without informing about the changes to their partners. This causes delays in the invoice flow and possibly false payment requests to customers. When changes have been done by an operator, the testing should be performed properly. In a case of several operators between the buyer and the seller, it is difficult to investigate where the problem has been originated, for example, if large invoicing material disappears on the way  The cooperation with the Finnish operators has been good compared to the operators in Europe. The European operators operate in a different way and require contract directly with an invoice sender. The Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


European model causes a lot of extra costs in the case where the seller has to pay twice for invoice sending In the near future, Lindström s main focus is on internationalization and since summer 2007 Lindström has struggled with this problematic issue Lindström finds that the operators in Finland should be capable to find common policy with the operators in Europe because a single company in Finland has no possibilities to affect the cooperation between the European operators. For the time being, Lindström sends paper invoices via intermediaries to Europe, for example to Denmark and Hungary. The aim for the future is to send the online invoices abroad because customers there are willing to accept them The second main change in the operational linkages due to the e-invoicing is a broader contact surface between the buyer and the seller. Different parts in the organization have discussed with each other more than before. The contact surface of each customer contains one sales representative, several persons in the customer service department and the personnel responsible for invoicing. The sales persons, responsible for certain products and customers, negotiate contracts and manage customer relationships. The customer service supports the sales representatives in sales and marketing. It is divided into two teams: an active team providing service through the telephone and a team responsible for contracts and the sales ledger. Customers contact person in issues relating to an invoice belongs to the active customer service team. When customers have complaints or questions about invoicing, their calls can be occasionally connected to several available persons. Usually new customers call to the sales representative if there are some defects in the first invoice. The sales persons are not allowed to log into the invoicing system, and therefore they are not capable to see the invoicing data; for example the delivery time of invoice. In principle, the sales department only sells, and in invoicing issues both the sales representatives and the customer service contact invoicing personnel in order to solve problems. Some customers contact directly the invoicing department in order to discuss about their invoices, and this has been a change compared to the previous invoicing system. Thus, the negative impact has been that new electronic invoicing customers have caused extra work to the invoicing department Fortunately, this effect was predicted beforehand and Lindström had employed more resources in order to serve new electronic invoicing customers. The positive impact is that the broadened contact surface has increased commitment of the buyer These both main changes in operational linkages the existence of operators and the broader contact surface, have created dependence and therefore switching costs for both parties  4.2.3. Legal bonds Legal bonds between the seller and the buyers have not changed due to the einvoicing. Customers have not made any new contracts with Lindström They have made agreements with their banks and possibly with the operators However, some minor actions have been made in the seller s side due to the e-invoicing: the customer s readiness to receive electronic invoices has to be defined in the contract. Secondly, the contract information of electronic invoicing customers has been inserted and updated when the customers have implemented electronic invoicing The contract terms, such as terms of payment and pricing, have also been standardized by Lindström when the customer has implemented online invoicing. For example, a customer may have had different terms of payment in each corporation unit and after the implementation of electronic invoicing the corporation has only one term of payment for all units Customers have not gained any contractual benefits due to the implementation of e-invoicing However, the customers have been informed about the economic benefits in the long term generated by electronic invoicing The new CRM system at Lindström will have more significant impacts on customers contracts than the implementation of the electronic invoicing because all customer information including the contracts will be saved in the database of the new CRM system. Therefore, the integration between the electronic invoicing and the contracts will be stronger in the future. For example, all the customers units can be directed to use electronic invoicing due to the improved technical properties of the new CRM system  4.2.4. Cooperative norms In the case of implementing electronic invoicing, the mutual goal before the implementation was to get the most benefits out of the implementation. The customers expected remarkable cost decreases, and those expectations were established mainly among the customers financial departments, instead of the customers purchasing departments. In addition, the customers who were involved in the pilot projects had a wish that everything would work perfectly immediately after the first distribution. Lindström s financial department expected that the cooperation with the customers would possibly increase, and therefore additional labor re sources were needed in order to serve customers properly. The customer Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


service had only one expectation that the amount of calls due to disappeared invoices would decrease. All in all, the expectations were positive and hopeful Since the first pilot project, the positive goals of both parties have been achieved Invoices have been sent successfully and the implementation schedules have been on time. Moreover, all customers have been satisfied. In the problem cases \(most of which have been caused by the customers\, the customers have been flexible  The adoption rate of online invoicing among Lindström s customers has increased at a steady rate for example, from 26% in 2006 up to 38 % in 2007 One reason for the growth has been Lindström s activity at the customer interface We have carried out marketing of electroni c invoicing by sending marketing letters to the customers twice per year In addition, the salespersons campaign the benefits of electronic invoicing during the customer visits by presenting the potential cost savings. Lindström has not even considered about giving compensation, such as discounts, to the customers because the marketing has been so successful so far. The aim for the future is to continue marketing electronic invoicing more intensively, in cooperation with the banks and the operators. Lindström aims to be a reliable supplier and, therefore, too fast growth in the adoption of electronic invoicing has not been desirable at the customer service s expense. Besides, the initiative towards electronic invoicing has come increasingly from the customers The e-invoicing has had some impacts on the connector of cooperative norms The expectations of both exchanging parties to achieve mutual goals jointly have increased, and this, in turn, characterizes higher cooperation. Based on the theory, the development of cooperative norms reflects an increased level of trust between the seller and the buyer  4.2.5. Adaptations by sellers The adaptations of Lindström, due to the implementation of electronic invoicing, have been one-time investments in their nature but not really large system investments and the benefit is remarkable In the beginning Lindström invested in the system producing a form of TEAPPSXML. The benefits due to the sending of electronic invoices have been so remarkable that the investment in question has already paid itself. The second investment was the system called Workflow relating to the purchase ledger. These two main investments have been large, but benefits have also been significant. In the future, the investment in a new system that produces the form of Finvoice, is possible Due to the electronic invoicing, Lindström has not done any investments in information systems used in the sales or in the customer service and it has presented problems during the last few years. For example, the sales personnel and the customer service are not able to check from their system whether a customer uses electronic invoicing. Many systems at Lindström have been implemented without taking into consideration the invoicing process. The ongoing projects of the new CRM system and the new production systems will solve this problem, even though electronic invoicing is not the only reason for the implementation of those systems Due to the electronic invoicing, Lindström has been forced to hire more employees in order to answer for the customers demand. The implementation process of new electronic invoicing customers is complicated, because information of each customer has to be checked and investigated in detail, for example the e-invoicing addresses addresses of various company units and the organization structure  4.2.6. Adaptations by buyers Adaptations of buyers, Lindström s customers, due to the electronic invoicing have been large among the larger customers. They have enormous amount of invoicing material, and therefore the great amount of information has to be determined in their systems The huge work and the invested money in the customer side bring more commitment to the relationship. It takes a couple of years until the investments made by the customers have repaid themselves. However, in the larger companies, this time period is shorter because volumes are bigger The electronic invoicing is an effective tool to commit the larger customers and to create stronger partnerships. This was clearly evident when interviewing the person responsible for billing at Lindström The big customers have a huge mass [of invoices a n d th ey p u t a ll th e d a t a in th eir sy stem s and become committed in that way the big customers do not easily change [processes  s i nce it requires a lot of work on their side The adaptations by the buyers, such as investments in information technology, increase commitment both toward the operator and toward Lindström because the switching process from an operator to another becomes more complicated. Furthermore, if customers wishes can be fulfilled, it produces trust toward the seller. In addition to the increased commitment and trust customers flexibility will increase Lindström s goal for the adoption rate is that all customers are online customers some day. The Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


short-term goal is that 70 % of customers will receive invoices as electronic form in 2008. The sales personnel makes active and comprehensive work in marketing and a marketing letter is sent to all customers. Since autumn 2007, the initiative for electronic invoicing has been increasingly received from the customers. Lindström interprets that the customers are better informed of electronic invoicing because the banks and the operators have been active in marketing. In addition, the customers information systems are nowadays ready to accept electronic invoices All kinds of customers in spite of their size have implemented electronic invoicing. However there are a great amount of small customers that have too high threshold to adopt electronic invoicing For example, some of these customers do not have network connections, or the number of invoices is so small that the benefits from electronic invoicing would be non-existing. The most important reason why small customers have not adopted electronic invoicing is usually their attitude. In addition, some of the larger customers use scanning and have not the readiness for electronic invoicing yet, but in the longer term they will have In the future, the possible adaptation will be related with the customers human resources systems that should be integrated with Lindström s systems For example, to get automatically information about the customer s demand for a work-wear would generate huge savings. This kind of integration requires considerable trust from the customer s part toward Lindström The both parties, Lindström and its customers have made adaptations due to the e-invoicing. As stated in the theory part adaptations contribute to building switching costs and thus the relationshipspecific adaptations reflect to calculative commitment in the business relationships. It can be concluded that due to the electronic invoicing, the switching costs and thus commitment has increased between Lindström and its customers, providing value to the both parties to the extent that these investments have reduced costs and created dependence  5. Discussion and Conclusions  In this paper, we examined six different key connectors between the buyer and the seller. The main contribution of this study is identifying the changes in these six relationship connectors. Our results indicate that one of the most significant benefits due to the e-invoicing has been the more intensive information exchange, and thus the increased cooperation and commitment between the seller and its customers. Moreover, it was stated that the greater sharing of information in problem situations improves the quality of invoicing in the future. The most significant changes in operational linkages, due to the e-invoicing, have been the entrance of operators and a broader contact surface between the buyer and the seller. Both parties, the seller and its customers, have made adaptations due to the e-invoicing, and it was concluded that the switching costs and commitment has increased between the seller and its customers. In the literature on relationship maturity, mature relationships are sustained by dependencies which are often created by increased switching costs and commitmen While the investments in electronic invoicing usually reduce costs for the buyers, the sellers benefit from the implementation of electronic invoicing in creating long-lasting relationships and even dependence. The findings are summarized in Table 1  Table 1. Key results Connector Impacts Information exchange Increased information flow and transparency of information Operational linkages The entrance of operators and the broader contact surface Legal bonds No effects observed Cooperative norms Higher expectations \(increased cooperation, increased trust customers flexibility in problem situations Adaptations by sellers Investments in information technology, possibility of added value to customers Adaptations by buyers Increased switching costs for the buyer \(increased commitment and dependence  To facilitate the widespread adoption of electronic invoicing, the work towards open data standards should be strongly encourag addition   cooperation between the service providers, including operators and banks should be encouraged as they have complementary skills and contributions to make. This work is already being done, e.g., by the European Union. The EU commission has established an expert group to discuss, to promote, and to facilitate the transition to electronic invoicing. The objective of the group is to design a European Electronic Invoicing Framework EEIF\ by 2009 This framework will promote the emergence and the development of open and interoperable e-invoicing Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


services across Europe. Further research could investigate how these improved standards in the field of electronic invoicing further affect the buyer-seller relationships The main limitation of our study is that it focuses on one single company. To extend the current study we have already conducted preliminary interviews in seven companies and two public organizations  7. References  1 Ca nn on, J   P    P e rre a u lt W  D  J r 1999 u y e rSeller Relationships in Business Markets Journal of Marketing Research Vol. 36, No 4, November 1999: 439460  2 EEI 2 0 07 Eur ope a n Ele c t ronic I n v o ic ing  http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/ict/policy/standards/einvoicin g/2007-07-eei-final-rep-3-2.pdf, accessed 28.3.2008  3 Bru n, M  2 00 7 Ele c t ronic Inv oic i ng t o the  Pu blic  Sector in Denmark, http://www.epractice.eu/cases/EID accessed 29.11.2007  4 D w y e r F. R., D a hls t rom   R D i N o v o T  1995  Buyer-Seller Relationships Theoretical Perspectives. In Möller, K. & Wilson, D. \(Eds Business Marketing: An Interaction and Network Perspective USA: Kluwer Academic Publishers, pp. 71-109  5 R i ng  P   Va n de Ve n  A   1992 Str u c t ur i n g  Cooperative Relationships Between Organizations Strategic Management Journal vol. 13, 483-498  6  P e ntt i ne n  E  P a lm e r J  20 07 prov ing Firm  Positioning Through Enhanced Offerings and Buyer-Seller Relationships Industrial Marketing Management vol. 36 552-564  7 M lle r, K W ilson, D 1 995  n e ss Ma rk e ting   an Interaction and Network Perspective. USA: Kluwer Academic Publishers   Co ase R 1 93 7 T h e n a t u r e o f t h e f i r m   Economica  IV, pp. 386 405  9 W illia m s on, O. \(19 85 The economic institutions of capitalism The Free Press, New York  1 L l ewel l y n  K 1 9 3 1   W h at P r i ce Con t r act  A n E s s a y In Perspective Yale Law Journal 40, 704-751  11 U l a g a  W  a nd Eg g e rt A  2005 e la ti ons h i p Va lue i n  Business Markets: The Construct and Its Dimensions Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing 12, 73-99  12 Heid e, Jan B. \(1 9 9 4  In tero r g a n izatio n a l G o v e rn an ce  in Marketing Channels Journal of Marketing 58 \(January 71-85  1 Beal e H an d Du gd al e  T   1 97 5   Con t r act Bet w een  Businessmen: Planning and the Use of Contractual Remedies British Journal of Law and Society 2 \(1\ 45-60  14 Macn eil I. \(1 9 8 0  The New Social Contract New Haven, CT: Yale University Press  15 A nde rs on J  a n d N a rus  J  19 90 Mo de l of  Distributor Finn and Manufacturer Firm Working Partnerships Journal of Marketing 54 \(January\2-58  1 Yin  R    1 99 4   Case Study Research: Design and Methods 2nd ed.\ge Publications Inc. Thousand Oaks CA  17 Sa n d a y P  19 83 T h e e t hnog ra phic pa ra dig m s  J. Maanen, \(Ed Qualitative methodology Sage Publications  18 H a rv ey  L   J  M y e r s  M D  199 5 ho la rs hip a n d  practice: The contribution of ethnographic research methods to bridging the gap Information Technology and People 8 \(3\, pp. 13 27  19 P e ttig re w  A  1985 C ont e x tua lis t re s e a r c h a nd t h e  study of organizational change processes. In: E. Mumford R. Hirschheim, G. Fitzgerald and A. Wood-Harper \(Eds Research methods in information systems Amsterdam North Holland  2 M a gn et  M  19 94  T h e Ne w  G o l d en Ru l e o f  Business Fortune February 21\, 60-64  21 T i e k e  2008  Ve r k k o la s k us a n a s to T he g l os s a r y o f  electronic invoicing, in Finnish\ Available http://www.tieke.fi/mp/db/file_library/x/IMG/15715/file/V erkkolaskusanasto.pdf. Accessed 27.4.2008  22 Boe r de T Booiji nk T L i e z e nbe rg C. & N i e nhuis   J., Bryant, C. & Pruneau, A. \(2008\invoicing 2008 European market description and analysis. Euro Banking Association \(EBA\nd Innopay, February 2008. Available http://realtimeeconomy.net/wiki/show/1/business_services Accessed 18.2.2008  2 M a vo nd o F  R o d r i go  E   2 00 8   Th e e f f ect o f  relationship dimensions on interpersonal and interorganizational commitment in organizations conducting business between Australia and China Journal of Business Research 52\(2\, pp. 111-121  2 C h u  K   Kraem e r K L   Gu rb axan i   V  and  X u  S  X   2006\ Migration to Open-Standard Interorganizational Systems: Network Effects, Switching Costs, and Path Dependency MIS Quarterly 30 \(special issue\, pp. 515539 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


I = \(r? r d?\(0   2  0  1 c  If the integral is positive for all admissible r? then the recursive identification algorithm converges to r IV. REFERENCES 1. Mehra R.K. On the identification of variances and adaptive Kalman filtering. IEEE Trans. on AC. 1970. V. AC15. P. 175-184 2. Isaksson A. Identification of time varying systems through adaptive Kalman filtering. Proc. of the 10th IFAC Congress. Munich. 1987. V. 10. P. 305-310 3. Ljung L. Analysis of recursive stochastic algorithms IEEE Trans. on AC. 1977. V. AC-22. P. 551-571 4. Ljung L, Soderstrom T. Theory and practice of recursive identification. Cambridge: MIT Press. 1983 1701 pre></body></html 


  12 5  C ONCLUSIONS  The investigations in this report yield three important conclusions for improving valid ation and verification of aerospace systems\222 performance requirements, and suggest a number of investigatory extensions. The improvements should be extensible to validation and verification of any performance requirement for any aerospace system Verification Planning Usi ng Conditional Approaches Reduces Numbers of Tests Required Conditional approaches are used as the basis for applying decision theory. Veri fication for aerospace systems always supports the decision making process for acceptance of the system. Therefore, verification planning using conditional approaches is suitable and appropriate for aerospace systems As demonstrated in section 2 of this report, conditional approaches can be used with models of maximum objectivity to eliminate most, if not all, questionable assumptions. This is not possible when developing a verification plan using classical statistical methods. As observed with the Orion LAS mission assurance requirement example, the use of maximum objectivity models in verification planning did not introduce any unnecessary inherent conserva tism, producing verification plans using fewer numbers of tests, with higher probabilities of verification success than those developed using classical statistical methods. This results in more cost feasible verification plans due to the reduced numbers of tests that need to be performed Requirements Validation is Improved by Using Historical Data When considering verification planning for a stringent aerospace system requirement, hi storical surrogate systems data may be used with conditional methods to investigate actual achieved requirement performance levels in both verification and operations as a function of residual risk Surrogate systems that were fiel ded, were verified to satisfy their performance requirements at stated verification risk levels, and were cost feasible in design, manufacturing, and verification. Conditional approaches allow this validation process to be performed without any knowledge of the actual requirements levied on the surrogate systems, and without using any indefensible assumptions As was observed in this report for the proposed mission assurance requirement for the Orion LAS, 41 surrogate systems actually performed close to the Orion LAS requirement in operations considering the aggregated data However, none of these surrogate systems were verified to the level of the proposed Orion LAS mission assurance requirement with the stated residual verification risk. This suggests that the industry that produced the surrogates, and that will produce the Orion LAS, may indeed design and built such systems to perform at levels that cannot be verified at those levels at a feasible cost. Relaxing the stringency of the Orion LAS mission assurance requirement to the 0.97 level for verification purposes should be valid based on results from processing the aggregate surrogate systems data Further, consider that the Ares I rocket will be designed manufactured, and verified by the same industry that does so for the Orion LAS. A 0.97 mission assurance for the Ares I means that there is a 3% risk of failure. The Orion LAS with a mission assurance requirement of 0.97 has a 3 risk of failing, given that the Ares I fails. With these values for mission assurance requirements for both vehicles, the actual risk of loss of crew due to failure of the Orion LAS when the Ares I fails is the product of these two risks, a 0.09% risk When ground test and flight data from surrogate systems is available, conditional approaches may be used to validate both the level of required performance and required maximum acceptable verification risk for the system of interest Greater Verification Plan Achievability and Feasibility Results from Combining Conditional Approaches with Historical Data Beyond the improvements offered to verification planning when using conditional approaches, the cost feasibility can be further improved if historical surrogate system data are available. As seen for verification of the Orion LAS mission assurance requirement in Table 5, once relaxed to a validated level, a verification plan taking advantage of the historical surrogate systems\222 ground test data can be developed that can be cost feasible, with a greatly improved probability of verification success Extensions to the Investigations Conditional approaches may be used to predict future system performance based on observed data, i.e., test results 7 n s id erin g th at an ticip ated use of the Orion LAS may be limited to fewer than 100 flights, it is possible to predict the probabilities for number of failures of the Orion LAS among a fixed number of flights, given numbers of surrogate ground test and fli ght successes and failures and actual Orion LAS verification results. Factoring these results into verification planni ng, coupled with requirements validation based on processing surrogate data using conditional approaches, may yield further improvements in cost feasibility for verification of stringent requirements for aerospace systems  


  13 R EFERENCES  1 th o n y J. Hayter, Pro b ab ility an d Statistics fo r En g i n eers and Scientists, Third Edition, Belmont, CA, Duxbury 2007 2 C. J. Clo p p er  E S Pear son, \223The Use of Confidence or Fiducial Limits Illustrated in the Case of the Binomial,\224 Biometrika, 26, 404-413, 1934   Jam e s O. Berger, Statis tical Decision Theory and Bayesian Analysis, Second Edition. Springer-Verlag, New York, 1980 4 A. Po well, \223Op tim al an d  Ad ap tab l e Reliab ility Test Planning Using Conditional Methods,\224 Proceedings from the 14 th Annual International Symposium, International Council on Systems Engineering, Toulouse, FR, June 20\226 24, 2004  Harold Jeffreys, Theory of Probability. Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1939  Edward Jaynes, \223Prior Pr obabilities\224. IEEE Transactions Systems, Science and Cybernetics, 4, 227-291, 1968   Jose Bernardo and Adrian Smith, Bayesian Theory. John Wiley & Sons, LTD, New York, 1994   Howard Raifa and Robert Sc hlaifer, Applied Statistical Decision Theory. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. New York 1960 9 Brian Mu irh ead 223Co n stella tion Architecture and System Margins Strategy,\224 Proceedin gs from the International Astronautical Congress, Glasgo w, Scotland, September 29 226 October 3, 2008 10  Sco tt \223Do c\224 Ho ro witz, \223Cu rren t  Co n stellatio n  Planning,\224 presented to the House Science and Technology Committee Staff, March 13, 2007   M a rk A. Powell, Safety and M i ssion Assurance Special Assessments, CxP Orion LAS Verification Planning Evaluation Report, Repository Number: JS-2008-002 November 12, 2007      B IOGRAPHY  Mark Powell has practiced Systems Engineering for over 35 years in a wide range of technical environments including DoD, NASA, DOE, and commercial. More than 25 of those years have been in the aerospace arena. His roles in these environments have included project manager, engineering manager, chief systems engineer, and research scientist. He is currently an adjunct member of the Stevens Institute of Technology Syst ems Engineering Faculty, and of the University of Houston, Clear Lake Systems Engineering Faculty. Mr. Powell maintains an active engineering and management c onsulting practice \(currently in affiliation with SAIC\ North America, Europe, and Asia. Beyond consulting, he is sought frequently as a symposium and conference speaker and for training workshops, and tutorials on various topics in Systems Engineering, Project Management, and Risk Management Mr. Powell is an active member of AIAA, Sigma Xi, the International Society for Bayesian Analysis, and the International Council on Systems Engineering, where he serves as Assistant Direct or for Systems Engineering Processes  


  14  


2008, vol. 278/2008. Boston: Springer, July 2008, pp. 477  492 24] T. Neubauer, C. Stummer, and E. Weippl  Workshop-based Multiobjective Security Safeguard Selection  in Proceedings of the First International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security ARES IEEE Computer Society, 2006, pp. 366  373 25] T. Neubauer and C. Stummer  Interactive Decision Support for multiobjective COTS Selection  in Proceedings of the 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, no. 01, 2007 26    Extending Business Process Management to Determine Ef?cient IT Investments  in Proceedings of the 2007 ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, 2007, pp. 1250  1256 27] W3C  OWL - web ontology language  http://www.w3.org/TR/owlfeatures/, February 2004 28] J. Burtles, Principles and Practice of Business Continuity: Tools and Techniques. Rothstein Associates Inc., 2007 29] T. R. Peltier, Information Security Risk Analysis, 2nd ed. Auerbach Publications, 2005 30] S. Kairab and L. Kelly, A Practical Guide to Security Assessments Boston, MA, USA: Auerbach Publications, 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


well as from practitioners, is available, IL strategy including DWH/BI strategy IL strategies are addressed at all, either actual artifacts/documents are proposed without an integrating meta model/methodology, or the strategy making process is described without proposing specific and consistent result templates/structures Since it consumes a significant amount of resources and may constitute significant potentials for business, IL needs strategy. IL strategy must not be limited to hardware/software selection and architectural considerations, but should address the entire business scope of sourcing services, integrating acquired and self-made services into customer-oriented IL solutions, and delivering such solutions to create customer value Our survey of the state of IL strategy in practice reveals that IL sourcing, IL delivery and IL portfolio strategies are regarded as important strategy components. The larger companies are, the more international their focus is, and the more their IL is organized according to the CC model, the more components of a supply-chain oriented explicit IL strategy they are likely to have deployed The IIM model provides a suitable conceptual foundation for structuring such strategy components and also provides best practices from IT management which often can be easily adapted to IL. Regarding IL product/service development and maintenance certain functional oriented strategy sub-components are differentiated in our framework. These strategy components are adapted from an established data management functional framework in order to reflect IL specifics. While traditional, more technically oriented sub-components such as system and data architecture are covered in most companies, business oriented components like change management and project/business requirements management are covered less frequently. Additional research is necessary to develop appropriate solution components based on existing fragments and experiences Based on a more complete comprehension of IL strategy and its components, the strategy development and update process needs to be addressed in future research as well. Instead of developing and updating business strategies, IT strategies and IL strategies in independent processes, dependencies and cycles need to be addressed. A comprehensive understanding of IL strategy and respective processes may also serve as a foundation for establishing maturity models, reference models and best practices  References 1] Arnott, D. and G. Pervan, Eight key issues for the decision support systems discipline. Decision Support Systems 44\(3  2] Baum  l, U., Strategic Agility through Situational Method Construction. Proceedings of the European Academy of Management Annual Conference 2005, 2005  3] Burton, B., et al., Activity Cycle Overview: Business Intelligence and Information Management. Gartner Research G00138711, 2006  4] Chan, J.O., Optimizing Data Warehousing Strategies Communications of the IIMA, 5\(1  5] Earl, M., Management Strategies for Information Technology, Prentice Hall, New York et al., 1989  6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





