html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Proceedings  of the Third International Conference on Machine Leaming and Cybernetics, Shanghai, 26-29 August  2004 THE ANALYSIS ON MODEL OF ASSOCIATION RULES MINING BASED ON CONCEPT LATTICE AND APRIORI ALGORITHM XUE-GANG HU', DE-XING WANG', XIAO-PING LIU' .~ ,  JUN GUO', HAO WANG Dept. of Computer Science and Technology, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei 230009, China I Institute of Plasma Physics, Chinese Academy of Science, Hefei 230031, P. R. China 2 VCC Div. School of Computer and Information, Hefei Univ. of Technology, Hefei 230009, China E-MAIL: kxgstudy@hfWedu.cn , wangdexing198706@sina.com.cn Ixp@ipp.ac.cn, wangzh@mail.hf.ah.cn Abstract Concept lattice represents knowledge with the relationships between the intension and the extension o l concepts, and the relationship between the generalization and the specialization of concepts, thus it is properly applied to the description of association de mining in database. The Quantitative Extended Concept Lattice \(QECL concept lattice by introducing equivalent relstionships to its intension and qnantity to its extension, Based on it, we can mine asmiation rules, compared witb well-known Apriori algorithm, without calculating frequent itemsets, w i l y  obtain intemting association d e s ,  in the meantime a lot of redundant rules are reduced, thus the efficiency and veracity of mining de are improved Keywords Assaeiation rules; Apriori; eoncept lattice; frequent itemsets 1. Introduction Association rules"' mining is an important branch of data mining, which describes potential relationships among data items \(attribute, variant Apriori algorithm'21proposed by R. Agrawal et. a1 in 1993 is an influential algorithm for mining frequent itemsets for Boolean association rules, usually most algorithms are impioved on basis of the algorithm, but there exist some problems, for example, much more time complexity, more redundant rules and so on However, association d e  mining based on concept lattice has some advantages: Firstly, concept lattice represents knowledge with the relationship between the intension and the extension of concepts, and the relationship between the generalization and the specializations of concepts, thus it is properly applied to the description of association rules mining in databases Secondly, based on QECL, we can mine association d e s compared with well-known Apriori algorithm, without calculating frequent Itemsets. Finally we easily obtain interesting association rules, in the meantime a great number of redundant rules ate reduced. For users, most of importance, they can freely mine interesting association rules by themselves, therefore the efficiency and veracity of mining rules are improved 2. Association d e Association rule mining can be stated as follows: Let I=[&amp;, i2, ... in ] be a set of items. Let D, the task-relevant data, be a set of transactions, where each transaction T is a set of items such that TzI. The quantities of items bought are not considered. Each tmnsaction is assigned an identifier, called TID. Let A be a set of items,.A transaction T is said to contain A if and only if Afl .  An association rule is an implication of the form A a B ,  where A d ,  B d and AnB=0. The rule A 3 B  holds in the transaction set D with support s, where s is the percentage of transactions in D that contain AuB \(i.e., both A and B the probability, P\(AuB in the transaction set D if c is the percentage of transactions in D containing A that also contain B. This is taken to be the conditional probability, P\(BIA A*B AwB A*B BIA A=+B A Mining association rules is to mine strong association 


Mining association rules is to mine strong association rules that satisfy the user-specified both minimum support threshold and confidence threshold 3. Apriori algorithm The algorithm has become one of the most popular data mining methods, which was proposed by Agrawal et al The aim of the association rule mining is that how to find out those interesting relations among the amibutes in the 0-7603-8403-2/04/$20.00 @2W4 IEEE 1620 Proceedmgs of the Third International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Shanghai  26-29 August 2004 1621 large databases. Many methods have been proposed to reduce the number of scans and candidates by hashing sampling, pattitioning, dynamic itemsets counting, etc. but the essential of them have not changed Apron algorithm is an influential algorithm for mining frequent itemsets for Boolean association rules, employs an iterative approach known as a Level-wise search, where k-itemsets are used to explore \(k+l of frequent 1-itemsets is found. This set is denoted Ll. LI is used to find b, the set of frequent 2-itemsets, which is used to find LJ, and so on, until no more frequent k-itemsets can be found. The finding of each Lk requires one full scan of the database. Once the frequent itemsets from transactions in a database D have been found, it is straightforward to generate strong association rules from them, where strong association rules satisfy both minimum support and minimum confidence. However, there exist some problems 1 database to generate all the candidates, which becomes a bottleneck. 2 association rules that make it difficult for users to mine all interesting association rules, and workload of mining association rules increases rapidly 4. Concept lattice A context is defined as a triple C= \(0, D, R 0 is a set of objects, D is a set of attributes, and R is the binary relationships between 0 and D, according to the inclusion relationships between extensions, there is a unique ordered set that descrihes the structure of inherent lattice, which defines natural groupings and relationship descriptions between the objects and their attributes in the context. This structure is also known as Concept \(galois lattice 13   Definition 4.1: Each pair such as \(A, B context is called a concept, where AE P\(O D P\(O D and B create a connection in. terms of the following properties: A  me DlVgc A,gRm],B  gc OlVge B  g b j .  Kinere K=B, B  A, then A is called the extension of concept, and B is called the intension of concept Definition 4.2: In the context C=\(O, D, R concept \(A, B  and Bi  A, then Bi is called an equivalent feature grouping of A  In particular, A  is also an equivalent feature group of itself, then Qu\(A CA  and B  A} can be defined Definition 4.3: A pair \(A,B called a basic concept, where AEP\(O D BeEqu\(A A,B A,Bz equivalent two basic concepts, BI,  Bz are equivalent grouping, then we also call that BI, B2 are equivalent basic intensions, therefore, C=\(A, Equ\(A B, UB the rest may be deduced by analogy, When there are k basic concepts CI, CZ. . .CL, we can deduce C= \(A, Equ\(A A BI UBzUB,, ... UBt or simply called concept, and B, \(i=1,2, ... k equivalent intension Definition 4.4: In a ECL, partial order relation  lt  between concept Cg=\(AI.BJ and Cz=\(A2,Bz 


concept Cg=\(AI.BJ and Cz=\(A2,Bz C I &lt; C z o B z ~ B ~ ,  then CI is the sub-concept of Cz \(the son of the father CZ of the son Cl the relationship father and son, If CI&lt;Cz, there isn  t a concept C=\(A,B called an direct-sub-concept -direct-sup-concept-relation between C1 and Czr the Hasse diagram of concept lattice is generated according to the partial order relationship If concepts Cl=\(AI,BI AZ,Bz satisfy AIcAz in the context C, there is a sub-concept-sup-concept-relation between C, and CZ denoted as CI&lt;Cz Concept sets and their dmt-sub-concept direct-sup-concept relationships in the context consist of a complete concept is called Extended Concept Lattice  5,61 Definition 4 . 5  The Generalized Super-concept of concept C, denoted as superfC direct-supcoucept of C is generalized Super\(C CI E super\(C C generalized Super\(C namely, \(C&lt;Cl C2E super \(CI C Definition 4 . 6  As for concept C=\(A,B  IAI,B called Quantitative Extended Concept L4561 of C, C is real concept of C  where IAl is the cardinal of extension A We mark basic quantitative extended concept comprised of intension B by C p are N by BasC\(N C1=\(A,B1 A,BZ basic quantitative extended concepts Cl  IAI,BI Cz  IAI,Bz extended concepts is cd!ed Quantitative Extended Concept Lattice \(simply called QECL specific extension information, realization of some problems solutions will be changed Theorem 4.1: Concept C1=\(Bl Bz intensions can not intersect each other is equivalent in a BasC\(N BluBz N Theorem 4.2: If concept Cl=\(Nl,Bl NZ.BZ a BasC\(N Theorem 4.3: In a BasC\(N NIBI NZ,B2 and only if 3 B l , ~ B I . 3 B ~ 1 ~  BI, satisfying C\(BI BZJ Theorem 4.4: CI=\(NlrBI N2.B2 N Proceedmgs of the Third International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Shanghai  26-29 August 2004 1622 satisfying BIaB2, and NI fNz, then C2e super\(CI Above the proofs of theorems, we can prove them by the defmitions and theorems of extended concept lattice here are abridged 5. Mining association d e s  in quantitative extended concept lattice As for concept C=\(IAI, B=\(BI.B2. ..., BL we can intrcduce Support\(B concept C, M is the sum of transactions in D, IAl is the extension cardinal of concept C Definition 5.1: If Support \(B big than the support threshold, C is called an frequent concept \(usually called frequent itemsets intension B,\(i=l ... k redundant intension of B is called redundant frequent items We can acquire basic frequent items from frequent concepts in a QECL, obviously, each grouping basic intension in frequent concepts is basic frequent itemsets Since redundant intension is obtained from basic intension therefore, we can also obtain basic frequent itemsets f   the corresponding to basic intensions of frequent concepts Theorem 5.1: Frequent items is corresponding to the intension of ECL each other Theorem 5.2 If C=\(IAI,B=\(BI,Bz, ..., Bk QECL, the support of B, \(kl, ..., k 


QECL, the support of B, \(kl, ..., k the extension cardinal of C, M is the sum of transactions in D. If B is frequent itemsets whose support is bigger than the support threshold, B must be a group of equivalent intension \(basic or redundant intension Base on the theorems mentioned above, we can mine association rules on a given QECL Theorem 5.3: 1. If concepts CI=\(NI,BI Nz,B2 C2csup\(C1 confidence is NI / N2. otherwise, B,-B2 =$ Bz, its confidence is 100 2. If concepts Cl=\(N,,Bl N2,B2 C2~sup\(CI maximum-sub-concept C=\(N,B  W,B   which makes CE sup\(C   C    there are association rules between BI and B2: B e B 2 ,  B2 BI, their confidences are N/N,, N/N2 respectively 6. The generation algorithm of quantitative extended concept lattice From above the discussion in Section 4, we can obtain the algorithm to generate quantitative extended concept lattice, which should be inserted initial quantitative extended concepts \(corresponding to initial concepts by one, then adjust it according to Theorem 3.1-3.4. The algorithm is written as following The algorithm Insertion \(QECL,C quantitative extended concept into QECL 1 N,B inserted in the QECL, if there is equivalent concept of C in the QECL such that 3Cli\(Cli oC of C into the intension of Cli  then finish the operation of insertion, that is,, Intension\(Cli Cli C 2 immediate sup-concept of C, fmtly insert C as a sub-concept of CO into the QECL, finish the operation in tum as follows: I Cli&lt;Co,Cli&lt;C an immediate-sup-concept of Cli,at the same time, remove the connections between Cli and Co. 2 Ck=\(Nk,Ir the QECL into the QECL, by the way, the judgment of the relationships of equivalence and father-son in the algorithm can be implemented according to Theorem 4.1 -4.4 Attribute set A=\(al,a2 ,... ,a 0,D.R partition generated by amibute a, can be expressed by Oil/vil, Oi2/viz, ... , Oi&amp;M of attribute a, whose value is vij, therefore, we can gain a array of initial quantitative extended concepts QC\(ai Ni~w=vi Ni~,a,=vd,.. \(Ni,,a,=vid attribute a The generation algorithm of the QECL Create-In-Attr\(QECL generate QECL with the complete concept \(0 null concept do, for Ci EC\(a QECL, CJ 7. Algorithm analysis Compared with Apriori algorithm, the fmding frequent itemsets algorithm base on QECL has some advantages 1. On time complexity: Apriori algorithm employs an iterative approach known as a level-wise search, where k-itemsets are used explore \(k+l complexity is O\(2   conditions of the thresholds of support and confidence are added to mine association rules with Apriori algorithm, in practice, Its time complexity will be improved. However time complexity of the QECL generation algorithm is exponential in n, In practice, the QECL has typically O\(n2 or even O\(n 2   running time of o 2. On storage complexity: There isn  t obvious difference they need large storage 


they need large storage 3. On association rules minimg: The Hasse diagram of QECL can show all frequent itemsets and their supports on itself while Apriori algorithm can not; on the one hand when amihutes, objects, the conditions of association rule mining have been changed, we have nothing to do hut repeat if we use Apriori algorithm to mine association rules However, if amihutes and objects have not changed, when the mining association rules conditions have changed QECL will not he reconstructed again, we can mine association rules until they satisfy the user  s specified conditions; on the other hand, QECL can present association rules concise and distinct, while Apriori algorithm  s presentation is complicated and abstract 8. A comwrison example of association rules mining with QECL and Aproiri-algorithm From the definitions and theorems mentioned above, we TID can mine association rules on a QECL, taking a typical no0 Example an lysis 6.1 on as page market 232 basket in 1 no0 literature L9  There are 9 transactions and 5 Items in ALLELectronics transaction database D, that&gt;: M=9, we use data in Table 1 to generate QECL according to the definitions and theorems in Sections above, draw the corresponding Hasse diagram of QECL from the mm ALLELectronics transactions database D. as shown in Fig. 1 By Apriori algorithm, association rules mining will he carried out as foUows: There are 9 transactions and 5 Items in ALLELectronics transaction database D, that is M=9 Proceedmgs of the Third International Conference on Machine Leaming and Cybernetics, Shanghai  26-29 August 2004 1623 The Hasse diagram of QECL corresponding to the context in Table 1 and we set the Minimum support threshold determined is 1/9, scan D for count of each candidate, frequent Itemsets CI: \(III.IIzI~ l I ~ l , l b l . ~ 1 ~ l ,  whose the support of frequent itemsets is 6/9,7/9,6/9, 2/9, 2/9, respectively, remove these frequent itemsets whose the support is lower than the minimum support threshold 18, we can easily obtain frequent itemsets LI: \(I1].\(I~Jr\(I3],{b IS candidates from LI, frequent itemsets CZ: \(IIIz IIibI, IIihI, IIzhI. ~ ~ z b l ~ 1 ~ z ~ ~ l , l ~ ~ b l , l ~ ~ ~ s l ~ l ~ s l ~  scan D for count of each candidate, calculating thee support of thses frequent itemsets is 4/9, 4/9,1/9,2/9, 40 ,  2B, 2/9, 0 1/9, 0, respectively, remove these frequent itemsets whose the support is lower than 1/9, we can easily get frequent itemsets Lz: [ 1 1 1 ~ 1 , ~ 1 ~ 1 ~ 1 , ~ 1 ~ 1 C3 candidates from b, scan D for count of each candidate C3: \(111213 2/9,respectively, then frequent itemsets L3 can be easily gained, then association rules mining has been finished However, in Fig.1, the support of frequent itemsets is not divided by M=9 in order to be convenient for explanation, we can easily obtain frequent itemsets, for example. such as the support of frequent itemsets Il   frequent itemsets \(III I~I I~~.bj is 4/9,4/9,4/9 29,  respectively, the support of frequent itemsets I I I ~ I I ~ I ~ I ~ , I I12b] is 2/9, 2/9, 1/9, respectively etc.L9   Once the frequent itemsets from transactions in a database D have been found, we can generate association 


database D have been found, we can generate association rules from them, for example, we can select some attribute at random, association rule 11 A 12qIs, the support of frequent itemsets \(IJZJ and \(II121s] is 4/9,2/9, respectively then the confidence of association rule II AIz=&amp; is 2/4, as A Iz. whose confidence is U2, U2, U6, 217, 2/2 respectively Similarly, we can generate association rules on the Hasse diagram in Fig. ],for example, association rule II A the support of frequent itemsets \(1112 is 4/9, U9 respectively, then the confidence of association rule I I A I z ~ I S  is 214, as such IzAIS*I~, II*IzAIs. 1 2 3 1 1 AI,, whose confidence is 2 2 ,  2/6, 2/7 respectively However the association rule I z A I s ~ I l ,  Since concept \(121s does not exist, there is an common maximum-sub-concept II121s, Is association rule IzAIs*Il,whose confidence is U2. The results are identified with Apriori in generating association rules Finally, from the same result of association rules Such IIAIs*Iz, IzAIs*II, I,*IzAIs, I z d i  AIS, Is I1 Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Shanghai  26-29 August 2004 mining base on QECL and with Apriori algorithm, we can reach a conclusion that association rules mining base on QECL has more advantages, the approach presents association rules visual, vivid and concise, improves mining association rules efficiency and avoids the blindness of mining association rules, Above all, user can interactively mine useful association rules on Hasse diagram of concept lattice according to his subjective interests [lo.l  l 9. Conclusions In the paper, we discuss the algorithm of mining association rules base on QECL, Since frequent itemsets and their supports are shown on the Hasse diagram of QECL, it is more convenient for us to mine association rules, improve mining association rules pertinence, reduce searching space of the algorithm. Thus it is ohviously superior to Apnori algorithm, which need to scan databases for a number of times, and sometimes repeat from scratch when the thresholds of support and confidence of association rules have been changed Acknowledgements The paper is supported the National Natural Science Foundation of P. R. China under Grant No.60273044 and the Natural Science Foundation of Anhui Province of China under Grant No. 01042201 References l] R. Agrawal, Tomasz Imielinski, Arun Swami  Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases  Proceedings of ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, Washington DC pp. 207-216, May 1993 2] R. Agrawal, R. Srikant  Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases  In: Proc. of the 20th Intel. Conf. on Very Large Data Bases, Santiago Chile, pp. 487-499, Sep.1994 3] R. Wille  Restructuring lattice theory: An approach based on hierarchies on concepts  in Ordered Sets_ Rival, ed 1982 4] Hu Xuegang. Etc  The Design Knowledge Representation and Reasoning in Intelligence CAD Based-on Extended Concept Lattice  In h c .  of 3rd Intemational Conf. on Computer-Aided Indusbial Design and Conceptual Design, Hang Kong, pp 460-463, Nov. 2000 5]  Hu Xuegang. Etc  The Research on Design Knowledge Representation and Acquisition in Intelligence CAD  In hoc .  of 2nd Intemational Conf 


Intelligence CAD  In hoc .  of 2nd Intemational Conf on Computer-Aided Industrial Design and Conceptual Design, Bangkok, Thailand, pp. 236-239, Nov. 26-28 1999 6] Hu xuegang, The Research of Models on Knowledge Discovery in Databases VH.D Dissertation] Hefei university of Technology, Hefei 2000,Anhui. P. R China. \(in Chinese 7] J. Deogun, Vijay V. Raghavan, Heayn Sever  Association Mining and Formal Concept Analysis   In: Anita,W,San,C Eds. Proc. of the RSDMGRC  98 Duke: Elsevier Science Publishers, 1998 G. Snelting  Reengineer of Configuration Based on Mathematical Concept Analysis  ACM Transactions on SoftwareEngineering and methodology, S\(2 146-189, 1996 9] Jiawei,Han,Micheline,Kamber, Data Mining xoucepts and techniques,Morgan Kaufman Publishers,San Francisco,pp.227-236, 2001 IO] De-Xing Wang, Xue-gang Hu, Hao Wang  The Research on the Model of Mining Association Rule by Interest-Weighted on Concept Lattice  Journal of Nanjing University \(Natural Sciences Computer Issue 11, pp. 89-95. Nov. 2002 111 De-Xing Wang, Xue-gang Hu, Hao Wang  The Research on Model of Mining Association Rules Based on Quantitative Extended Concept Lattice   IEEE Pro. of ICMLC2002 Conference, Beijing pp.134 -138, Nov. 2002 8 1624 pre></body></html 


and fuzzy minimum support sets along with average weight intervals. For this purpose, we have used three linguistic intervals for which random linguistic weights have been generated, namely very-Unimportant, Ordinary Ordinary, Very-Important] and very-Unimportant, Very Important], denoted W-0,O-VI and W-VI, respectively Figure 6 gives the number of rules with respect to the minimum support threshold at level 1. In this experiment the minimum supports at the other levels are adjusted to middle-below whose set is different for both level 2 and level 3 as shown in Figure 7. In a similar way, Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the correlation between minimum support in linguistic terms for two different levels and the number of rules produced. From the two figures, it can be easily seen that the number of rules mined decreases along with the increase in linguistic minimum support thresholds. Also more rules are generated for the linguistic weights of the higher fuzzy set. For example, the curve having [0-VI linguistic weights has generated more rules than the others especially [W-01 ones K C y b W  I O W  mdme- mdmr- t"@ -hi Minimum Suppans at Level I trl0.S .*a Fig. 6. Number of tules for various linguistic minimum suppart values M l r u n ~ P W . N h L e 3 1 \( X Fig. 7. Fuzzy Sets of minimum support tisod for different levek 0 1wo - 2 3000 b *cm E i 1000 W y l O W  IOW md*- mac- hlgh UnjY MinimumSupponsat Level 2 t r l O r x  *Ma Fig. 8. Number of mles far various linguistic minimum support values lam 6Mo 5000 4000 3 a a I 2000 1000 0 velylow IOW middle- middle- high vely below above high Minimum Suppofs SI Level 3 Fig. 9. Number of wi.5 for various linguistic minimum suppolr values In the second set of the experiments, the runtimes of the first experiments are compared. The achieved results are reported in Figures 10, 11, and 12, which do meet our expectations, i.e., the runtime decreases as the minimum support thresholds increase 229 V l o r  ,ow d d m C b . b V d d , n ~ ~  b.$h V Minimum Suppans at Love1 1 Fig. I O .  Runtimes for various linguistic minimum supports at level I  a i l o w  I O U  iddie  iddie- ugh rnyw ow above Minimum Suppons at Level 2 Fig. 11. Runtimes for various linguistic minimum mpportr at level 2 SenI 4 \\  I  E a  2 Y O y l O U  IOW  Mle- rmddlr- hgh  nyhgh Minimum Suppolts 81 Love1 3 below .bow Fig. 12. Runtimes for various linguistic minimum supports at level 3 vrrylov IOW riddle. Mddlr high v q h i g h r l o w  nbmr Minimum Confidence Fig. 13. Number ofrules for various linguistic minimum confidence In the last experiment, the minimum support has been fixed at the linguistic value middle-below and we tested, for 


fixed at the linguistic value middle-below and we tested, for three fuzzy regions, the effect of using linguistic terms to express confidence in similar way to the membership functions of minimum support used for level 1 shown in Figure 4, on the number of generated association rules. The results plotted in Figure 13 reveal two important features One of them is that the number of rules decreases, for all cases, as the linguistic confidence threshold increases. The VII. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we proposed a mining approach for extracting interesting multi-cross-level fuzzy weighted rules in a given taxonomy. A top-down progressive deepening technique has been used while mining multi-cross-levels weighted association rules. Also, three important criteria minimum support, minimum confidence and item importance used in determining the interestingness of the rules have been represented by fuzzy sets. So, we obtained more meaningfid rules that are more understandable for human beings. As apart from the studies described in the literature, we defined the concept of weighting internal nodes in a given taxonomy. The experiments conducted on a synthetic database showed that the proposed approach produces consistent and encouraging meaningful results Currently, we are investigating the possibility of combining the approach proposed in this paper with the concept of adjacency lattice for online mining REFERENCES I ]  R Agrawal, T. Imielinski and A. Swami  Mining association NI~S between sets ofitems in large databases  Proe. ofACM SIGMOD. pp 207-216, 1993 121 R. Srikant and R Agrawal  Mining quanlitative association NI~S in large relationaltables  Proc. ofACMSlCMOD, pp. 1-12, 1996 3] RJ. Miller and Y. Yang  Association Rules over Inten,al Data  Proc ofACMSIGMOD, pp. 452.461, 1997 4] B. Lent, A. Swami and J. Widom  Clustering Association Rules   Proc. oflEEEICDE, pp. 220-231, 1997 5] L.A. Zadeh  Fuzzy Sets  In/ormntion and Connol, vol. 8, pp. 338 353, 1965 6] W. Zhang  Mining Fuzzy Quantitative Association Rules  Proc. of IEEE ICTAI, pp. 99-102, 1999 7] K.C.C. Chan and W.H. A    Mining Fuzzy Association Rules: Proc o f . 4 C M C / M ,  pp.209-215, 1997 SI K. Himta and W. Pedrjcz  Linguistic Data Mining and Fuzzy Modelling  Proc. ofEEE-FUZZ, pp. 1448-1496, 1996 9] T.P. Hong, C.S. Kuo and S.C. Chi  Mining Association Rules from Quantitative Data  Inrelligenr Dolo Analysis. vol. 3, no. 5, pp. 363 376, 1999 I O ]  T. P. Hong, M. J. Chiang and S .  L. Wang  Mining from Quantitative Data with Linguistic Minimum Supports and Confidences  Proc. of IEEE-FUZZ, pp. 494-499. 2002 Ill H. Ishibuchi, T. Nakashim and T. Yammato  Fuzzy Association Rules for Handling Continuous Attributes  Proc. of IEEE Inle,aarionolSyn~posium on Indumiol Elecnonics. pp.l18-121,2001 I Z ]  M. Kaya, R. Alhajj, F. Polat and A. Arslan  Eflicient Automated Mining of Fuzzy Association Rules  Proc. qfDEX1, 2002 1131 C.M. Kuok, A.W. Fu and M.H. Wong  Milung fuzzy association rulesin&amp;tabases  SIGMOD Record, Vo1.17,No.l, pp.41-46. 1998 1141 W. Pedrjcz  Fuzzy Sets Technology in Knowledge Discovery   Furzy Sen ondSystems. pp. 279-290, 1998 1151 R.R. Yager  Fuzzy Summaries in Database Mining  Proc. of llre International Confireme 011 Artificial InteIligence/or Application, pp 265-269, 1995 1161 R Snkant and R. Agrawal  Mining generalized association ~ l d   Proc. of VLDE, pp. 407-419, Zurich. Sept. 1995 I71 1. Ha  andY. Fu  Mining Multiple-Level Association Rules in Large Databases  IEEE TKDE. vol. 1 I ,  pp. 798-805, Oct. 1999 IS] T.P. Hang. K.Y. Lin and B.C. Chien  Mining Fuzzy Multiple-Level Association Rules from Quantitative Data  Applied Inrelligence, vol 18, pp. 79-90,2003 


18, pp. 79-90,2003 1191 T.P. Hong, K.Y. Lin and S.L. Wang  Fuzzy data mining for interesting generalized association tules  Fuze Sets and Syslrms, vol 1 3 8 . ~ ~ . 2 . o o . 2 5 5 - 2 6 9 . ~ e n t .  2003. .~ ,.. 1 .  other is that the number of  rules tends to decrease along 1201 S. Yue, el -Mining f U q  NleS items   with the increase in the numbers of fuzzy regions. This is reasonable because a large number of regions will make quantities of an item in different transactions easily scattered in different regions prOe. o j m E s M c , p p .  1906-1911,2000 1211 C.H. Cai, et al  Mining Associalion Rules with Weighted Items   1221 A. Gyenerei  Mining Weighted Association Rules for Fuzzy Quantitative Items  TUCS Technical Report No: 346, May 2000 1231 R Agrawal and R Srikant  Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules  Proe of VLDB, pp. 487499, Sept. 1994 OfrDEAs, PP.68-77. 1998 230 pre></body></html 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


