html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Proceedqs of  the Third International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Shanghai, 26-29 August  2004 USER-ASSOCIATION MINING BASED ON TWO-STAGE COUNT YA-BO LIU", DA-YOU LIU", HONG QI', FANG-MING GU kollege of Computer Science and Technology, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, China Key Laboratory of Symbolic Computation and Knowledge Engineering of Ministry of Education Jilin University,Changchun 130012, China E-MAIL: lin-yabo@263.net Abstract Both item-assmiations and nser-associations mined from the rating table can be used to make personalized recommendation for the am-" user in de-based recommend technique. Mining user-associations is the key for the recommendation based on user-associations. In tbis paper we find that the cnrrent user not only can be used to constrain the rule form in user-assnciations mining profeps, but also can be used to partition the rating table into two parts in order to accelerate user-associations mining. It is first proved that user-wmiations about the current user mined from the wbole rating table are contained in those mined only fmm the data set that contain the am-" user's rating. Then, a user-assochtion mining frame based on twostage connt called TSCF is pruposed. TSCF frame can be implemented by using existing algorithm for mining association rules. And an algorithm TSCF-CL for mining user-associations is implemented by using the concept lattice. Lmt the performance comparison with ASARM algorithm shows that TSCF-CL can reach better time capacity Keywords User-Association; Concept Lattice 1. introduction Recommender system; Association Rule It is the concemed problem to make personalized recommendation for users in &amp;commerce. The system that can make personalized recommendation for users is recommender system I". Recommender system first collects all users' rating information about kinds of recourses to form the data set \(rating table recommendation for the current user by using the recommend techniques. The ty ical recommend techniques are Content-based Filtering lZRand Collaborative Filtering in brief, CF association rule mining has been applied in recommender system recently, so that Rule-based recommend techniq~e'~.~' is formed. Rule-based recommends technique makes recommendation by using both item-associations and user-associations which are association rules mined from the rating table Rule-based recommend technique usually adopts Apriori algorithm and its variants to mine association rules Fn developed a rule-based recommender system SurfLen's which uses Apriori algorithm to make web page recommendation for users online. Sanvar. etc proposed a Top-N L91 algorithm which first selected the users that are the most similar to the current user, and then mined association rules on these users in order to increase the efficiency of recommendations. But Lin found it was not efficient to apply most of the existing association rule mining algorithms designed for the basket data '" in recommender system because lots of association rules mined by these algorithms are indifferent to the current user So Lin proposed an adaptive-support algorithm ASARM to mine association rule for recommender system, which still adopted the Apriori-based CBA-RG algorithm ASARM's efficiency is increased with using the current user to limit the association rule's form In recommender system based on user-associations the common interest of the users in the condition of a user-association is suggested to the current user in the conclusion. In our research, we find that the current user 


conclusion. In our research, we find that the current user not only can be used to constrain the rule form in user-associations mining process,but also can he used to partition the rating table into two parts before the mining process in order to accelerate user-assocjations mining This paper fmt proposes a user-association mining frame called TSCF based on two-stage count, which can be implemented by existing association rule mining algorithms Then by using the concept lattice, we implement a user-association mining algorithm TSCF-CL based on TSCF. The paper is organized as following: a user-association mining frame TSCF based on two-stage count is given in section 2. In section 3 the TSCF-CL algorithm is introduced. In section 4, the performance of TSCF-CL algorithm is tested and compared with ASARM Finally we summarize the whole paper amp;7803-8403-2/04/320.00 @Ow IEEE 1129 Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Machine Le&amp;g and Cybernetics, Shanghai  26-29 August 2004  2. A User-Assodatinn Mining Frame based nu Two-Stage Count rows. For example, if the current user is Ut in tablel, then D1 is 111, Iz, 1 3 . 4 .  k, b. I101 ancl D2 is Ik.$, 191 2.1. Assoeiatinn Rule Association rule mining is designed for basket data analysis. Let I is an itemset, D is a set of transactions, and each transaction T in D is such an item set that TcI. An association rule R is such a rule A+B that A d ,  B d  and AnS=0.  A is the condition of R, noted Condition\(R the conclusion of R, noted Conclusion\(R Xd, X s  support in D is the ratio between the number of transactions containing X and IDI. IF X's support is not less than the minimal support threshold MinSup defined by the user, then X is a frequent itemset. Association rule mining discoveries all association rules satisfying MinSup and the Tablel. A Rating Table minimal confidence threshold MinConf defined by the user Without considering MinSup and MmConf \(i,e. Let RuleltemSet\(R R R MinSup=l/lDI, MinConfSJ  condition-support-count transactions that contain in -D. R's used-associations about U mined from DI. in D,noted  ConditionSupCountDO~ , is the number of the user-associations about U d e d  from D. and ARSdDI I r&amp;support-count in D,noted RuleSupCountD\(R number of the transactions that contain RuleItemSet\(R D. R s  support in D,noted Sup,,\(R RuleSupCountD\(R Confn\(R R CnnrlitinnSimCniint,\(R &gt Lemma1 ARSu\(D DI Proof: ARSU\(Dl D reduction to absurdity. Randomly select a user-association R from ARSu\(D DI D. SO only ARS DI r -- ----I,\\- -1. - .._ there is in D2 at least one row in which the column of Uis 2.2. The User-Association Mining Frame TSCF based nn Two-stage Count Recommender system first collects all users' rating information about kinds of recourse to form the data set rating table table, in which the value in the ith row and the jth column is the rating that the jth user remarks on the ith resource. If the value is 1 it means that the jth user likes the ith resource or else it means no rating about the ith resource. For example in Tablel there are 6 users who express their rating about 10 resources. Here, the rating table corresponds to the transactions in association rule mining In recommender system based on user-associations given the current user U, all association rules such nU,+U 


given the current user U, all association rules such nU,+U called as a user-association about U. where U. and U are 1. This is conflicting ..with the definition of D2. So ARSu Dl Lemma2 VRE ARSu\(D RUkSUpCOUntD\(R R Emma1 and lemma2 show that without MinSup and MmConf constraint,not only user-associations about U mined from D1 are the same as those mined from D, but also the support count of the same user-association is the same. In e-commerce, the items bought by one user is a little part of all resources in the whole website. So in general D1 is far smaller than D With considering MinSup and MinConf cons t+&amp; let ARSu\(D, MmSup, MinConf satisfying MinSup and MinConf mined from D and ARSU\(DI, MinSup, MmConf satisfying MinSup and MinCouf mined from DI different users in the system, and U,#U in D, then the common interest of the users in the condition of the user-association is suggested to the current user in the conclusion. Partition the rating table D into ~1 and ~2 by the current user, where D1 is composed ofthe rows in D which the U column is 1 and D2 is composed of the other Themml ARSu\(D, MinSup, MinConf DI MinSuP, MinConf F"0f: Given MinSup and MinConf,ARSu@, MinSup Miconf computed in S W W .  In the first stage, We Compute ARSU\(D DI 1130 i Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Machine Learning and Cyhemetics, Shanghai  26-29 August 2004 MinConf constraint, and we have ARSu\(D DI Then in the second stage ARSU\(D filtered by MinSup and MinConf constraint to generate ARSU\(D, MinSup, MinConf D1, MinSup MinConf also REARSU@I SupD\(R R Su~l\(R R Confo\(R R ConfDl \(R R According to lemd, IDI&gt;IDlI and ConditionSupCounto\(R R so Supn\(R R R R ARSu DI MinConf, user-associations filtered out of ARSu\(D always filtered out of ARSU\(DI ARSdDl D D MinSup, MinConf D1, MinSup, MinConf Deduction1 VRcARSu\(D R R IDII/IDI Confo\(R R ConditionSupCounbl\(R ConditionSupCoun Dl \(R Deduction2 Whether considering MinSup and MmConf constraint or not, user-associations about U mined from D are subset of those mined only from D1 Themml and its deductions show whether considering MinSup and MinConf constraint or not, user-associations about U mined from D are contained in those mined only from DI. It means that user-associations about U will not be lost when we mine user-associations,about U only from DI, and for the same user-association, its support in D can be computed by using its support in D1. As a result we can filter ARSu\(DI  t use MinConf constraint in D1 because the confidence of a user-issociation mined from D1 must be updated with the condition-support-count of the user-association in D2. In the whole, user-associations about the curcent user can be obtained from D based on two-stage count: in the fmt stage called as the support-count-stage aU user-associations about 


called as the support-count-stage aU user-associations about the current user in D1 are computed without considering MinSup and MinConf constraint; in the second stage called as confidence-count-stage, D2 will be scanned to compute condition-support-count of each \(frequent mined from the fYst stage, so that we can get the confidence of each user-association. This is the user-association mining frame TSCF based on two-stage count. Because in e-commerce, D1 is usually far smaller than D, TSCF will work efficiently 3. TSCF-CL Algorithm TSCF frame c&amp; be implemented by using existing algorithms for mining association rules. By using concept lattice we implemented the user-association mining algorithm TSCF-CL. Because in recommendation domain the rules with low support maybe the most personalized ones, TSCF-CL algorithm generates all user-associations without considering MinSup \(Le, MinSup=l/lDI 3.1. ConceptLattice Given a set of instances E, a set of features E  and a binary relation R between E and E  there exists a unique concept lattice corresponding to R. Each element of the concept lattice is a pair, called as a concept, noted \(Y, X which is composed of a set YEP \(E the concept, and a set XE P \(E   concept, P \(A  I ] .  Each pair in the concept lattice must be complete as defined in the following A pair \(Y, X E E   respect to R if and only if the two following propelties are sa tis fi ed 1 e  cE  IVesY,eRe   2 X XI  =\(esE IVe  sX,e  ReJ Notice: f\(0  g\(0 pairs are kept in the concept lattice. There is a partial order between the pairs in the concept lattice. Given Hl=\(YI,XI and HZ=\(Y2,X2 the father of H2. When we mine user-associations by using the concept lattice, X in the pair \(Y, X condition of a user-association. Because the conclusion of all user-associations about the current user U is U, an element of the concept lattice corresponds to a user-association about the cument user. Association rules mining only concerns the support count of an itemset, so IYI is often used to represent Y, where IYI is the cardinal of Y 3.2. TSCF-CL Algorithm Description TSCF-CL algorithm is based on the incremental concept lattice construction 15  The element in the concept lattice is extended to the structure as fig. 1 Given the current user U,Condset stores the condition of a user-association about U Because the conclusion of all user-associations about U is U,the condition is full enough to represent each user-association. SC stores the support-count of a user-association in D1 in the first stage CC stores the support-count of Condset in D2 in the second 1131 Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybemetics, Shanghai  26-29 August 2004 Algorithm TSCF-CL nput: a rating table D,U,NinConf, RuleNum output: user-associations for Uc 1. Partion\(D,U, D1, D2 2. LC {&lt;O,O,"&gt;, &lt;O,O,-&gt;] //initial the concept lattice 3. For each  TED^ Do //support count 4. SupNumCount\(L,T 5.  EndFor 6. For each TsD2 Do //confidence count 7. ConfNumCount\(L,T 9. RuleSetcSelectRule\(L, MinConf, RuleNum EndFor 


EndFor Figure2 TSCF-CL Algorithm stage, which then is used to compute the confidence of the user-association. The confidence of the user-association is SC/\(SC+CC amount of user-associations that can make recommendation for the current user. The support-count sub algorithm SupNumCoun in fig.3 constructs the incremental concept lattice based on D1 in.the fmt stage, and updates SC of each element. The sub algorithm confidence-count ConfNumCoun is similar to SupNumCount, but counts on DZ, not D1. In the second stage, ConfNumCoun constructs the concept lattice based on D2, and updates the CC of each element. The sub algorithm SelectRule generates all user-associations about U from the concept lattice, and judges which one can be used to make recommendation for U, then returns them. In TSCF-CL algorithm, the following two kinds of user-associations can not be returned for the current user U: @user-associations whose confidence are less than MinConf; @user-associations whose confidence are 100% because it means the current user has shown the same interest as the common interest of the users in the condition. The detail of ConfNumCount sub algorithm and SelectRule sub algorithm are. not given here SubAlgorithm SupNumCount Input: a transaction T, concept lattict L 1. For element N in L \(N n T # 0 2 3. Else meet+X\(N 4 5 6. Condset \(M 7 8. Else SC\(N N 9. EndIf EndIf 10. EndFor output: L Condset\(N If Condset \(N N N If no Condset Then Insert a new element M to L SC\(M N M Figure3 Sub Algorithm SupNumCount 4. TSCF-CL Performance Test . Figure1 the extended element in concept lattice 33. Incredible Elements Because TSCF-CL begins the confidence-count-stage until the support-count-stage is completed and one element of the concept lattice corresponds to one user-association about U,it is possible to avoid generating user-associations whose confidence are less than MmConf by not generating such elements whose SC/\(SC+CC less than MmConf. We called them as incredible elements Assume an element N hms incredible after dealing with a transaction in the concept lattice construction. According to the incremental construction of the concept lattice, in scanning D2 SC of N will not change and CC of N will be not decreased, so SC/\(SC+CC and the elements generated from N are sure to be less than MmConf. It shows that the elements generated from incredible elements are also incredible ones. TSCF-CL algorithm can reach better performance by not generating incredible elements 1132 Proceedings of the Third Intemational Conference on Machine Larning and Cybernetics, Shangnai  26-29 August 2004 test, the executing process of both ASARM and TSCF-CL for 5 users are overtime and the process for other 10 users is shown in fig5 Under the same user amount, TSCF-CL runs overtime only for few users. but ASARh4 runs ovenime for many user. The performance comparison with ASARM algorithm shows TSCF-CL algorithm is faster than ASARM algorithm and reaches better time capacity 


0 mrmmeASAIu.1 ma Tnne\(WC4 ;"* e...... * 7 ; p  1 . -  * .  . .  I .  . .  . .   . .  r I . .  . . .  . . .  ..: i i  . .  . -  . .  . .  . .  . +  .  . .  . .  . .  I  I I :  . i I *  . .  . .  . .  I  . .  .. I c 1 Conclusion The paper proposed a user-association mining frame _ _ based on two-stage count called TSCF and by using concept lattice we implemented a user-association mining algorithm TSCF-CL designed for recommendation. The contributions of the paper are: f a t ,  TSCF frame not only uses the current user to constrain the rule form, but also partitions the rating table in mining process, so that the efficiency of mining user-associations is increased. Second TSCF frame can be implemented by using existing algorithms for mining association rules. Third, TSCF-CL algorithm is implemented by using the incremental concept lanice, which can reach better time capacity Acknowledgements This paper is supported by NSFC of China \(project number: 60373098, 60173006 project number: 2003AA118020 Province \(20020303-2 e 0  C ASARM T S G - U 1 7 - - -  J nl a2 uf wl Us u6 u7 UB OP 010 Ber Figures Ihe execotiag time for 10 users References 111 I21 131 41 151 161 Paul Resnick, Hal R.Varian.. Recommender Systems Communications of the ACM, 40\(3 1997 David Goldberg, David Nichols, Brian M. Ob Douglas Terry. Using Collaborative Filtering to Weave an Information Tapestry. Communication of the ACM, 35\(12 Marko Balabanovi'c, Yoav Shoham Fab:Content-Based, Collaborative Recommendation Communications of the ACM, 40\(3 1997 Upendra Shardanand, Pattie Maes. Social Information Filtering: Algorithms for Automating "Word of Mouth". In: Proceedings of CHI'95 Conferenceon Human Factors in Computing Systems, ACM Press, 1995 John SBreese, Davia Heckerman, Carl Kadie Emperical Analysis Of Pridictive Algorithms For Collaborative Filtering. In: Proceedings of the Fourteenth Annual Conference on Unceltainty in Artificial Intelligence, pages 43-32, July 1998 Weiyang Lin, Sergio A. Alvarez, Carolina Ruiz Collaborative Recommendation Via Adaptive Association Rule Mining. 6th Intemational Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data 1133 Proceedqs of the Third Intemational Conference on Machine Learning and Cybemetics, Shanghai, 2629 August 2004 Mining Workshop on Web Mining for E-Commerce WebKDD-2000 7] Weiyang Lin, Sergio A. Alvarez, Carolina Ruiz 


7] Weiyang Lin, Sergio A. Alvarez, Carolina Ruiz Efficient Adaptive-Support Association Rule Mining for Recommender Systems. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 683--105,2002 SI Xiaobin Fu, Jay Budzik and Kristian J. Hammond Mining Navigation History for Recommendation In: Proceedings of Intelligent User Interfaces 2000 106-112, ACM Press, 2000 9] B. Sarwar, G. Karypis, J. Konstan, J. Riedl Item-based collaborative filtering recommendation algorithms. In Roceedings of WWWlO Conference pages 28s-295, Hong Kong, May, 2001 lo] Bing Liu, Wynne Hsu, Yiming Ma. Integrating Classification and Association Rule Mining. KDD-98 1998, pages 80--86.1998 ll] Robert Godin, Rokia Missaoui. Hassan Alaoui Incremental concept formation algorithms based on Galois\(concept Intelligence, 1 l\(2  1134 pre></body></html 


15] N. Davies, K. Cheverst, K. Mitchell, and A. Efrat  Using and determining location in a context-sensitive tour guide  ZEEE Computer, vol. 34, issue 8, pp.35-41 Aug. 2001 pre></body></html 


 The required delivery date is a Range constraint any date within the next 30 days Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  today today+30 days Attribute S&H query\(UPS Product   say it is 59.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product  Attribute Price  Attribute Total  Inter-attribute constraints in PO14 Price  Quantity  Value  1-x Total  Price  S&H  1.088 Total  Total1  Total4 In this case the Quantity attribute value has changed to 2 by adding both requests together Furthermore the Delivery-Date attribute value is a result of finding a common range of the two The obvious saving in this case is 2*$39.95 59.95\1.088  21.71 Whether a bunch of POs should be aggregated in a particular way depend on whether costing savings can be achieved while satisfying all the constraints 6.2 Intelligent Aggregation of Purchase Orders in e-Procurement with Negotiations Aggregation under dynamic negotiation is harder because supplier side could be revising its own strategies and parameters on the fly While human intervention in the aggregation process is possible we focus on automated aspects of the aggregation in this paper Suppose we have a simple supplier side rule buy one and get second one half price from LT a supplier of mice keyboard and trackball Suppose we have requests to buy Mice as follows PO5 Attribute Buyer  Organization 223B\224 User 223Joe\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 1 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/21/05 02/21/05   a r an g e of dat e s  order dat e  deadline d Attribute S&H9  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product  Attribute Price10  Value  say it\222s 29.95 Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  1 tax rate results in a value 29.95  4.95\1.088  39.97 PO6 Attribute Buyer  Organization 223C\224 User 223Al\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 1 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/25/05 02/28/05   a r an g e of dat e s  order dat e  deadline d Attribute S&H10  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product sayit\222s 29.95 per mouse Attribute Price10 Value Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  1 tax rate results in a value 29.95  4.95\1.088  39.97 6.2.1 PO Aggregation Under Negotiation The rule-based aggregation engine uses the Negotiation service to understand supplier\222s offers and tries to take advantage of the terms in the offers For example by aggregating PO5 and PO6 can be aggregated as follows PO56 Attribute Buyer  Organization B C User 223Joe\224 223Al\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 2 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/25/05 02/21/01 Attribute S&H10  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product sayit\222s 29.95 per mouse Attribute Price10 1.5*Value Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  tax  1.5 29.95  4.95\1.088  54.26 A saving of 39.97  2 54.26  25.68 or over 32 of savings Note the changes of the 223Quantity\224 and 223RequiredDelivery-Date\224 attributes after aggregation The quantities are added up and the required delivered dates are merged for a common range Due to the constraints on object attributes aggregation may require complex constraint solving Proceedings of the 2005 Ninth IEEE International ED OC Enterprise Computing Conference \(EDOC\22205 0-7695-2441-9/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


7 Conclusions and Future Work This paper describes an Intelligent Aggregation facility in enterprise e-Procurement process This facility introduces an information model a rule-based aggregation engine corporate agreement policies and negotiation in aggregating large volume of POs in enterprise eprocurement to reduce cost and maximize efficiency This information model includes extensive use of constraints for and among attributes in a PO These constraints guard the integrity of POs as they are aggregated The intelligent aggregation facility can be inserted as a value-added service in the enterprise e-Procurement workflow An enterprise generates millions of POs every year but the number of distinct products and services the enterprise purchases is actually much smaller in the hundreds rather than in the millions This presents cost saving opportunities by aggregating POs that makes best use of terms and conditions in corporate agreements or supplier offers Some concrete examples are used to show the idea of automated aggregation and the opportunities in reducing procurement cost As millions of POs are generated even a small percentage of savings would mean substantial savings for large enterprises The ideas described in this paper have not been fully implemented in our prototype One area needs more work is the formal representation of policies in corporate agreements which would allow the aggregation engine to automatically explore aggregation opportunities before POs are made to suppliers Another is the semantic model of products which would enable more semantics-based aggregation of POs 8 References  e bX M L  h t t p   w w w ebxml  org  2 e n g  J  S u  S  Y  W  L a m H   a n dH e l a l S   223Achieving Dynamic Inter-Organizational Workflow Management by Integrating Business Processes Events and Rules,\224 Proceedings of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences HICSS35 Hawaii USA January 2002 3 u  S  Y  W  L a m H   L e e  M  B a i S   a n dS h e n  Z   An Information Infrastructure and E-services for Supporting Internet-based Scalable E-business Enterprises Proceedings of the 5th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Seattle Washington USA September 2001 4 S u S Y  W   H ua ng C  H a mme r J   H u a ng Y   L i  H   Wang,L.,LiuY.,Pluempitiwiriyawej,C.,Lee,M and Lam H 223An Internet-based Negotiation Server for E-commerce,\224 VLDB Journal Vol 10 No 1 2001 pp.72-90 5 M o r r i s S l o m a n  223 P o l i c y D ri v e n M an ag em e n t f o r Distributed Systems\224 Journal of Network and Systems Management Plenum Press Vol 2 No 4 1994  M aarten S teen  J oh n D errick  223 For m ali s ing ODP Enterprise Policies\224 Proceedings of the 3 rd International nterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Mannheim Germany IEEE CS Press September 1999  J am e s H a ns on  Z oran M i l o s e v i c 223 C o n v e r s at i onOriented Protocols for Contract negotiations\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003  S  N eal J  C ole P.F L i n i ng ton  Z  Milose v i c S Gibson S Kulkarni 223Identifying Requirements for Business Contract Language a Monitoring Perspective\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003 9 T  D im itrak o s  I  D j o rd j e v i c Z  Milo sev i c A  J o san g  C Phillips 223Contract Performance Assessment for Secure and Dynamic Virtual Collaborations\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003 Proceedings of the 2005 Ninth IEEE International ED OC Enterprise Computing Conference \(EDOC\22205 0-7695-2441-9/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


absolute values. The results can vary on other computers. But it can be guaranteed that performance ratio of the algorithms will remain the same After making the comparisons with sample data, we came to the conclusion that PD algorithm performs significantly better than the other two especially with larger datasets. PD outperforms DCP and PIP regarding running time. On the other hand, since PD reduces the dataset, mining time does not necessary increase as the number of transactions increases and experiments reveals that PD has better scalability than DCP and PIP. So, PD has the ability to handle the large data mine in practical field like market basket analysis and medical report documents mining 5. References 1] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algoritlnns for mining association rules", VLDB'94, pp. 487-499 2] R. J. Bayardo, "Efficiently mining long patterns from databases", SIGMOD'98, pp.85-93 3] J. Pei, J. Han, and R. Mao, "CLOSET: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets \(PDF Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD International Workshop on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, Dallas, TX, May 2000 4] Qinghua Zou, Henry Chiu, Wesley Chu, David Johnson, "Using Pattern Decomposition\( PD Finding All Frequent Patterns in Large Datasets", Computer Science Department University of California - Los Angeles 5] J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin, "Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation \(PDF  SIGMOD International Con! on Management of Data SIGMOD'OOj, Dallas, TX, May 2000 6] S. Orlando, P. Palmerini, and R. Perego, "The DCP algoritlnn for Frequent Set Counting", Technical Report CS2001-7, Dip. di Informatica, Universita di Venezia 2001.Available at http://www.dsi.unive.itl?orlando/TR017.pdf 7] MD. Mamun-Or-Rashid, MD.Rezaul Karim, "Predictive item pruning FP-tree algoritlnn", The Dhaka University  Journal of Science, VOL. 52, NO. 1, October,2003, pp. 3946 8] Park, J. S., Chen, M.-S., and Yu, P. S, "An Effective Hash Based Algoritlnn for Mining Association Rules", Proc ofthe 1995 ACM-SIGMOD Con! on Management of Data 175-186 9] Brin, S., Motwani, R., Ullman, J., and Tsur, S, "Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data", In Proc. of the 1997 ACM-SIGMOD Conf On Management of Data, 255-264 10] Zaki, M. J., Parthasarathy, S., Ogihara, M., and Li, W New Algoritlnns for Fast Discovery of Association Rules In Proc. of the Third Int'l Con! on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining, 283-286 11] Lin, D.-I and Kedem, Z. M., "Pincer-Search: A New Algoritlnn for Discovering the Maximum Frequent Set", In Proc. of the Sixth European Conf on Extending DatabaseTechnology, 1998 12] R. Ramakrishnan, Database Management Systems University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA; International Edition 1998 pre></body></html 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


