html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Proceedings  of the Third International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Shanghai 26-29 August  2004 A FAST ALGORITHM FOR MINING ASSOCIATION RULES BASED ON CONCEPT LATTICE YUAN-YUAN WANG, XUE-GANG HU School of Computer and Information, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei 230009, Anhui  P.R.China EMAIL. Wang_Yuanyuan @hotmail.com, jsjxhuxg@hfut,edu.cn Abstract Association rule mining h an important researeh branch of Data mining. However, most algorithms based on the tkpuent itemsets have to scan data- many times. This paper p m n t s  an algorithm that can tpnd association rules quickly. The algorithm is based on the concept lattice and can certify all assoeistion rules with only one scan of databases Firstly, this paper dislrres the principle of building the concept lattice, and then it describes the assoeistion rules mining algorithm based on concept lattice. At last the paper proves the efficiency and advantages of this algorithm by several experiments Keywords  KDD; Data Minlng; Association rules; Concept lattice 1. Introduction As an important pattern of Data Mining, association rule has been receiving much attention 'from miny researchers. Since Agrawal presented Apriori[ Ilalgorithm there have been many other algorithms that have emerged such as F P - p w d 9 b y  Han, J., CLOSETL1']by Pei, J. and Ha&amp; J.,CHARML191b Zaki and so on. Apriori and some improved alg~rithm~~~~~~'~~~'zO'will generate a huge number of candidate itemsets, especially for m g  long patterns And the most crucial disadvantage is that they need to repeatedly scan the databases and check a large set of candidates by pattem matching. The FP-growth algorithm method transforms the problem of finding long frequent patterns to looking for short ones recursively and then concatenating the suKi%ut it also need to scan the databases repeatedly . To design a method to quickly mine association rules with only one scan of databases, this paper presents an algorithm based on the concept lattice The concept lattice built on binary relationships by WiUe.R.'41has become a kind of forms to represent knowledge and an efficient tool to analyze data and draw rules. It has been applied in many field'611121such as knowledge engineering. Furthermore, research hitherto demonstrates that among the sets of the association rules there exits a kind of partial order that can be explicitly expressed by the concept lattice, and by the concept lattice the association rules, classification rules and equivalent rules can be mined quickly and easily13'~s"'2"'31'1~. Several methodP1'Io1to build the concept lattice have been studied Most definitions used here are formal standard ahd others are from EcL1311171by Hu X,~Plll'2111311171 his paper is Organized as follows: section 2 of the paper 'describes some formal standard and other new definitions; section 3 introduces the principle and method of building concept lattice; section 4 describes the algorithm for fmding association rules in detail, and section 5 proves the efficiency of OUT algorithm with a comparison with Apriori and this comparison is based on theoretic consideration and concrete run time experiments; At last the paper concludes with a summary of the results 2. Related Concepts First, we give some standard definitions of Formal Concept Analysis[Z][lO] and some new definitions[31[171 Definitionl[Z]: A Context. is defined as a aiple C=\(O,D,R attributes, and R is the b m q  relationship between 0 and D A couple \(A 


A couple \(A whereAGO,BGD,B'=[gE OIVm  B,gRmJ=A In the ECL, If Bl'=B2', then B1 and B2 are called equivalent basic intensions. Denote Equ\(A Define C=\(A, Equ\(A called concept in ECL.. We also denote the concept &amp; CO where T is the intension D e f ~ t i o n  2'Io1: The partial order is used to generate the lattice graph in the following way: there is an edge CI,C2 lattice such that Cl&lt;C3&lt;C2. C1 is called parent of C2 and C2 child of C1 Definition 3: If B1 C B 2  ,then C1 is sup concept of C2 ,and if for every concept 'Cd belonging to the sub concept of C1, there does not exit Cd=\(Ad, Bd BdCBZ, then C1 is a immediate sup concept of C2 and C2 1 687 Proceedings of the Tbird International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Shanghai  26-20 August 2004 is a immediate sub concept of C1 is derived according to the relation "&lt;" between concepts concept lattice to mine association rules 3. Building the Concept Lattice Definition 4[31['71:The Extended concept lattice\(ECL Now based on these definitions we build the needed Firstly, to improve the efficiency of building concept lattice, some tecbnologies are introduced, such as setting index and using proper data structure to store intensions. In the process of scanning the database, we count the number of records and the cardinality of the attributes, and establish the index based on these numbers. For the fact that the indices occupy very little space, we can deal with records as many as possible in the limited memory and build concept lattice with only one scan of database Secondly, we improved thetraditional godin algorithm by changing some searcbing path of the algorithm. Our concept lattice is built by incremental formation algorithm through inserting records into the lattice from up to down And the concept C=\(A,B different paths searched according to its concrete intension so as to minimize the number of concepts searched. In godin algorithm, when a new concept is being inserted, it must compare with every one in the concept arrays. And the complex intension comparison in godin algorithm is a time resuming work. While in our algorithm, all of intensions are only their address in the index, so the work becomes easier And thirdly, when a database is linked, in the process of building index and initiating the concept lattice, records are converted to.initial concepts whose extension only contains one element and one important method we use is that if the intension of concept C1 and that of C2 are equal then the extension of C2 are merged into that of C1 and delete C2. By.this way, we can greatly reduce the number of, concepts searched when inserting a concept Fuirhemore, taking into account that the characteristic of the concept lattice, the complete concept Ctop=\(all,\( 1 the empty concept Cbottom fustly. When inserting a concept C=\(A,B directly set as the sup concept of C, and the Cbottom as the immediate sub concept of C. At last, when looking for the immediate sup concept of C \(the concept being inserted there is a concept Ca =\(Aa,Ba and the intension Bd of one of its immediate sub concepts satisfying BdcBa ,  then the searching process can switch to another immediate sup concept of C without scanning all of tIie immediate sub concepts of Ca Algorithml: \(brief code Initiate bit set and initiate as empty BuildingConceptLattice 


BuildingConceptLattice merged concepts with same intensions Ctop=\(all,l 1  set CurrentConcept[i] =\( Ctop , Cbottom Temp[i]=\( ] storing possible immediate sup concepts For \( every Ci in CurrentConcept[i  If Ciintension G C.intension Then \( Ci.extension+=C.extension Add Ci to Temp[il I If Ci.intension=C.intension Then exit Else \( Tempintension=Ci.intension  Cintension For\( every C, in Temp[lTempntensionl  If C,.intension=Tempintension Then exit generate new concept C c' .extension=Ci.extension U C.extension c' .intension=Tempintension Temp[lTempintensionl CnrrentConcept[lC'.intensionl]+=C C'.childem[l+$; C+parent[l+=C Forfj=O tolc'intensionl-1 I Fodevery concept C. in Tempti  If C..intension C Tempintension 1 isparent=rme For\( every immediate sub concept C, of C If Cd.intension C Tempintension isparent=false; break I If isparent==true Then If C..intension C Ci Then 1 C..children[l-=Ci; Cj.parent[l-=C C..children[lt=C.'; c'.parent[l+=G I I 1  I 1 In the above we discuss the improved algorithm for building concept lattice, and with the help of the index, the concept lattice can be built with only one scan of database Thus can expedite speed of mining association rule from the concept lattice to some extent 4 I Mining Association Rules Using Concept Lattice Apriori is based on the fact that the algorithm uses priori knowledge of frequent itemsets properties, but it employs an iterative approach known as a level-wise search where Lk are used to explore Lr+,. The process generates a large amounts of candidates. And its perfom'ance is poor especially for mining long pattems. When it comes to the dynamic databases, even the transactions are added only one, Apriori will has to repeat all of its process. .However when the databases change the scale, using concept lattice 1688 Proceedmgs of the Third International Conference on Machine Leaming and Cybernetics, Shanghai  26-29 August 2004 can generate all frequent itemsets due to its maintainability not to mention its only one scan of databases. For the method of generating association rules from frequent items is simple, here we focus on how to find frequent items from the concept lattice Let I=\(&amp; i2, ... im} be a set of items. An association rule is an implication of the form X=&gt;Y, where X=X=Al A ..... A Am, Y= B1 A ...... A Bn, X&lt;I,Y&lt;I and X n Y is empty. The rule X=&gt;Y holds in the traction set D with suppott and confidence: support\(X=&gt;Y U Y confidence\(X=&gt;Y YIX threshold min-sup TheoremZ:For the concept C=\(A,B B where IAl is the cardinal number of extensions of C and ID1 is the total number of the transactions of database D If support\(B 


If support\(B LIB1 \(the IBI-frequent itemsets Theorem2:For the concept C=\(A,B Ci=\(Ai,Bi and B is frequent, Then Bi is also frequent and LIBI&gt; LIBiI If Bf=B-Bl U _..... U Bn=\(Bfl, Bf2 ,._. Bfj,.:.Bfk is frequent and B, Bf and Bfj compose the basic frequent itemsets Theored.For the concept C=\(A,B Ai,Bi i=1,2 ,...... n, if Ci is the immediate sub concept of C, and B is not frequent, then Bi is not frequent Theorem 4 In the basic frequent itemsets, suppose the maximal frequent ,itemsets is Lm, then Lm can not generates Lm+l when finding all frequent itemsets Theorem 5: In the basic frequent itemsets, t l  contains all the I-frequent itemsets Theorem 6Fmd the \(k-1  of every itemset s in Lk, a l l  of the \(k-1 exit s  in Lk.l where sup&gt;sup\(s   fmd s  in in Lk., where sup&lt;sup\(s   an itemset ss  whose \(k-1   Based on these theorems described above, after buildhg concept lattice, one scan of it can generates all frequent itemsets without another. scanning the database When all frequent itemsets are found, association  ru1es can he generated as foUows[ll]: for each frequent itemset B generate all nonempty subsets of B; for every nonempty subset 8  of B, output the rule  B  gt;\(B-B    only if support\(B B   minimum confidence threshold AlgorifhmZ:\( brief code of findmg frequent itemsets using concept lattice, see right page FindFrequentItems\(min-sup I FindBasicFRquentIt\(min-sup FindOtberFrequentItem\(L, k Prin@requentItems\(t I FindOtherFrequentIt\(L, k while @2 for every k-itemset in LK do Get-k-l-SubsetOfLK do while \(sup&gt;sup\(s   fors in Get_k-lSubsetOfLK do if not in LK.I then add s into LE.,; 1 5. Experiments and Analysis 5.1. Results of experiments to prove validity On the platform J2SE1.4.0, we build the concept lattice to mine the association rules and in the same time we use godin algorithm to prove the correctness of our improved algorithm. Suppose the min-conf=0.8 and min_sup=2/\(the number of records according to specific database association rules using our algorithm and the Apriori algorithm to prove the validity of our algorithm, and by comparing with the rules mined by the two methods we can prove the high quality of the association rules. The results of exoeriments are shown as Table 1 Table 1. comparison of building concept lattice and mining rules 18 48 48 16 99 99 nofe:[nre: number of records; na: number of attributes nc:number of concepts; mumumber of rules algl: our algorithm for building concept lattice alg2: our algorithm for mining rules from concept lance And the result of comparing the quality of rules mined using OUI method with that from apnori tells us that we need less time to get association rules with the same quality as those from apriori Next we use large database from real Life to compare the efficiency with the Apriori algorithm 


the efficiency with the Apriori algorithm 5.2. Results of experiments to prove etliaency The experiment platform is J2SE1.4.0. The following Table 2 shows our test result 1689 Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Machine Leaming and Cybernetics, Shanghai  26-29 August 2004 note: [tl:time for mining rules used concept lattice,including building concept lattice; t2:time for mining mles used apriori Experiments prove that the frequent itemsets mined using the two different methods are same and the quality of those rules is high. AU the rules are strong Use the database2, Fig 1 shows the concrete runtime for incremental building concept lattice .and a group of bansactions are inserted once; Fig 2 shows the runtime comparison between finding frequent itemsets using concept lattice\(time for building lattice included Apriori algorithm. Experiments prove that our algorithm  s performance is much better than Apriori The total time of building concept lattice and finding frequent itemsets is shorter than  that of Apriori as shown in Fig 2. So our algorithm is a better choice for mining association rues in large or dynamic database 6  Conclusions In this paper we present a fast algorithm of mining association rules using concept lattice. After  introducing the principle a d  the improved algorithm for building concept lattice, we describes the algorithm of finding association rules using concept lattice in detail Furthermore, based on the theoretic consideration and concrete run time experiments  we prove the efficiency and advantages of the algorithm References l] Agrawal, R., Imielinski,T. and Swami, A., Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases. In Proc.1993 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf Management of Data, pages 207-216, Washington D.C., May 1993 2] Ganter, B. and Wille, R., Formal Concept Analysis Mathematical Foundations, Springer, 1999 3] Wang Dexing,Hu Xuegang,Wang Hao.The Research on Model of Mining Association Rules Based on Quantiktive Extended Concept Lattice. IEEE The First Intemational Conference on Machine Learning and Cybemetics,Nov.4-5,2002,Beijing 4] Wille, R.,Restructuring Lattice Theory: An Approach Based on Hierarchies of C0ncepts.h: RivalI ed Ordered sets.Dordrecht:ReidelJ982,pages445470 51 Hu Xue-Gang, Zhang Yu-Hong, GuoJun and Wang Hao, The pruning ECL Classification and the Knowledge Discovery Based on the F  runing ECL Computer Science \(in China Special 61 Oosthuizen G D. Rough sets and concept lattices. In Ziarko W P ed. Rough Sets, and Fuzzy Sets and Knowledge Discovery. London: Springer -Verlag 1994. %31 71 Godin, R., Missaoui, R.,and Alaoui ,H  Learning Algorithms Using a Galois Lattices Structure  Proc Third Int.Conf .on Tools for Artificial Intelligence 1991,San Jose, Calif., IEEE Computer Society Press 22-29 81 J.S.Park,M.S.Chen, and P.S.Yu.An effective hashibased algorithm for mining association rules.In Proc.1995 ACM-SIGMOD Int.Conf.Management of Data,pages 175-186,San Jose,CA,May 1995 91 Han, J.; Pei, J.; and Yin, Y. 2000. Mining frequent pattems without candidate generation. In Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf. Management o f .  Data SIGMODOO lo] Robert Godin, Rokia Missaoui, Hassan Alaoui 


lo] Robert Godin, Rokia Missaoui, Hassan Alaoui Incremental concept formation algorithms based on Galois\(concept Intelligence 246-267.1995, 1 l\(2 ll] Jiawei Han, Micheline Kamber, Data mining concepts and techniques. Morgan Kaufmann Puhlisbers2000 12] Hu Xue-Gang,Wang Hao,Wang Man,Liu Xiao-Pmg,Liu Zong-Tian: The Design Knowledge Representation and Reasoning in Intelligenct CAD Based-on Extended Concept Lattice.Proceedings of 3rd Inter. Conf. on Computer-Aided Industrial Design and Conceptual Design.\(CAID&amp;CD2000 131 Hu Xue-Gang, Wang Man, Liu Xiao-Ping, Liu Zong-Tian: The Research on Design Knowledge Representation and Acquisition In Intelligence CAD.Proceeding of 2nd Inter. Conf. on Computer-Aided Industrial Design and Conceptual Design.\(CAID&amp;CD 99 1999.11 14] Han,J. and Fu,Y.,Discovery of multiple-level association rules from large databases. In Proc.1995 Int.Conf. Very Large Data Bases, pages 399431 Zurich, Switzerland,Sept. 1995 15] Pei, J.; Han, J.; and Mao, R. 2000. CLOSET An efficient algorithm for mining frequent closed itemsets In Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD Int.Workshop Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery \(DMKD  OO 11-20 16] Agawal, R. and Srikant, R., Fast algorithms  for  1690 Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Shanghai  26-29 August 2004 2000 mining association rules. In Proc.1994 Int.Conf. Very Large Data Bases,pages 487-499, Santiago, Chile Sept.1994 I71 Hu X.G. Research on model of extracting knowledge from database. Doctor dissertation. Hfut, Hefei, Anhui P.R.China, May, 2000 181 Savasere, A., Omiecinski, E. and Navathe, S., An efficient algorithm for mining association rules in large databases. In prOC.199S Int.Conf.Very Large 350 300 I Data Bases, pages 432-443, Zurich, Switzerland Sept.1995 I91 Zaki, M. J., and Hsiao, C. J. 2002. CHARM: An efficient algorithm,for closed itemset mining. In Proc 2002 SIAM Int. Conf. Data Minin$457-473 mmg Association Rules with Weighted Items. In Roc. of E E E Intemational Database Engineering and Applications Symposium, 1998,pages68-77 201 Cat CH.Fua WC,Cheng CH,et al t o u r  i""ed algorithm t g c d i n  algorithm 250 - 8 200 4 is0 100 50 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 I00 150 200 250 300 350 4W 450 500 550 number of hsactions Fig I comparison of time for building concept lattice 14000 loo00 12000 i t v s i n g  concept lattice 9-Apriori 0 10 20 30 40 50 100 150 200 250, 300 350 400 450 500 550 number of flilllSaCtl0"S 


number of flilllSaCtl0"S Fig 2 use concept, lattice and Apriori to mine frequent itemsets 1691 pre></body></html 


b c 3 30 1 2 1   0 6 24 0 2 d Column1   Column2 0                 1 0                 1 0                 1 0                 1 1                 0 0                 0 1                 1 1                 1 b bit groups 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 1 a Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence  ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE item set and then issue a ROOTCOUNT operation on the result 5.2.  Taboo lists For every new item I, we create a new node under the root and test for potential rules with all possible unterminated nodes lying to I  s right. The actual node creation order of the SE tree is the lexicographic subset ordering of the items in the given item list. For example, the node creation order for the set {1,2,3 would be: {1}, {2}, {1,2} ,{3}, {1,3}, {2,3}, {1,2,3 This ensures that every item set has all its subsets before it For every item, I, we maintain a TLI which saves the item sets whose outcomes, when joined with I, are known beforehand and thus need not be tested. In our implementation, each TLI is a P-tree having a size equal to the number of un-terminated nodes to the right of I \(i.e. all nodes that I will be tested with is used for nodes which, when joined with I, result in the firing of some pruning condition; thus, none of their supersets need to be tested with I. The remaining TLI entries will be 0s. For example, for the set of items 1,2,3,4}, suppose that the nodes created so far are 1}, {2}, {1,2} ,{3}, {1,3}, {2,3}, {1,2,3}. For node 4 we initialize a TL4 having 7 entries all containing 0s initially. If the joining of item 4 with node {2} results in firing at least one pruning condition, then the second entry pointing to item set {2} is flagged with 1, and so are all entries containing 2 \(i.e. entries pointing to 1,2}, {2,3} and {1,2,3 


1,2}, {2,3} and {1,2,3 tell which other entries contain item 2? We maintain for each item an index list as a P-tree \(called an index P-tree item exists in. For example, item 1 will have the following index list \(it will be stored as a P-tree but we are just listing the entries in a list for convenience 1,0,1,0,1,0,1. In other words, viewing the nodes of the SE tree in node creation order, item 1 occurs in node positions 1, 3, 5 and 7. Every new node added to the SE tree results in the expansion of all index P-trees by either a 1, if the corresponding item is in the new node added, or a 0, otherwise Going back to the previous scenario where the joining of item 4 with node {2} results in firing at least one pruning condition and thus node {2} need to be added to TL4, we simply OR the index P-tree of item 2 with TL4. In general, if we want to add node {x y  z} to some taboo list, TLI, we AND the index Ptrees for all items in the node \(i.e. AND index P-tree of x with that of y  with that of z us where item set {x, y  z} occurs. We then OR the resulting P-tree index with TLI which results in appending node {x, y  z} to TLI We maintain the taboo lists and index lists as Ptrees as this will give us faster logical operations and compression. In addition, in the case of taboo lists, it could speed the node traversal especially in cases where there many consecutive 1  s. For example suppose the entries in a taboo list are: 1111 0011 Figure 5 below shows the corresponding P-tree of the given taboo list Figure 5. The resulting taboo list in P-tree format In this example, instead of going through the first four nodes sequentially and then skipping them because they are flagged, using a P-tree to represent the taboo list, we can directly skip the first 4 entries because they form a pure-1 node on 2nd level of the Ptree It is worth mentioning that our traversal through the itemset space using taboo lists is very similar to a popular approach used in AI literature and known as Tabu search [13]. The idea in Tabu search is to traverse the space in a more effective manner by avoiding moves that result in revisiting points in the space previously visited whose outcome is known not to be acceptable \(hence the name "tabu   union of I and X produces an infrequent itemset implies that future joins of I with any superset of X will produce an infrequent itemset; a scenario similar in essence to revisiting a point in the search space whose outcome is known to be unsatisfactory and which could be circumvented by putting the point on a Tabu list. Because of the difference in context and problem definition, we refer to our lists as taboo lists instead of Tabu lists 5.3.  Comparison analysis To the best of our knowledge, no previous work has attempted to mine the type of rules we are considering We find [5] to be particularly interesting as it proposes an algorithm called Dense-Miner which is capable of mining association rules with fixed consequents at very low support thresholds. For the lack of a better benchmark, we will compare our approach with DenseMiner; however, we have to emphasize that a number 1                  0 0                    1 0 Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence  ICTAI 2004 


ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE of fundamental differences exists between the two approaches which we briefly outline next   D e n s e M i n e r  m i n e s  a l l  a s s o c i a t i o n  r u l e s  w h i l e  w e  only mine minimal, confident rules   D e n s e M i n e r  u s e s  s u p p o r t  a s  a  p r u n i n g  m e c h a n i s m  while this is not the case in our work \(In reality we also use support pruning, but in our case, the support threshold is always set to 2  as an absolute threshold In terms of rule overlap between the two approaches, all rules produced by our approach that have a support value greater than the minimum support threshold used for Dense-Miner will be produced by Dense-Miner also Table 2. Data sets description Table 3 Connect-4 Dataset 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Confidence Threshold Ti m e s  P-tree based Dense Miner PUMSB Dataset 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Confidence Threshold T im e s  P-tree based Dense Miner Figure 6. Speed comparison All experiments were conducted on a P-II 400 with 128 SDRAM running Red hat Linux 9.1.  C++ was used for coding. We experimented on two real-life dense data sets, Connect-4 and PUMSB, which are available at the UCI data repository. Table 2 below briefly describes the two datasets by listing the number of transactions, items, and items per transaction for each data set Connect-4 Dataset 0 50 100 150 200 250 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 99 99 5 Confidence Threshold 


N um be r of ru le s PUMSB-4 Dataset 0 20000 40000 60000 80000 100000 120000 140000 160000 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 91 91 5 Confidence Threshold N u m be r of ru le s Figure 7. Number of rules produced Figure 6 shows the time in seconds needed to mines rules at different confidence thresholds by our approach \(P-tree based aforementioned, Dense-Miner mines all rules using support pruning. It uses a variant of support referred to as coverage and defines the minimum coverage threshold as the minimum support divided by support of the fixed consequent. Results for Dense-Miner are observed with minimum coverage threshold fixed at 1% and 5%, respectively Our approach, on the other hand, mines only minimal rules without using any support pruning. It is very clear from the figure that users interested in minimal rules without support would prefer our approach as the time needed is many orders of magnitude less than that of Dense-Miner The user might notice from both parts of Figure 6 how the two approaches differ in the way they produce the rules. Dense-Miner takes more time at lower confidence while our approach takes more time at higher confidence thresholds. This is mainly because our approach mines minimal rules using only confidence pruning and the higher the confidence threshold, the more difficult it would be to get confident rules high in the SE tree; as a result, the SE tree grows deeper and thus requires more time to traverse. Dense-Miner, on the other hand, mines all Trans. Items Items per trans Connect-4 67557 129 43 PUMSB 49046 7117 74 Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence  ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE rules and it is very logical to have more rules satisfying lower confidence thresholds \(and vice versa obviously requires more time to mine The number of rules produced by Dense-Miner ranges from around 500,000 rules to less than 10 rules over both data sets. Figure 7 shows the number of rules produced by our approach over the two data sets at the 


produced by our approach over the two data sets at the different confidence thresholds. The same discussion presented in the previous paragraph applies here regarding the larger \(smaller produced at higher \(lower 6. Conclusion In this paper we proposed a framework based on SE-trees and the P-tree technology for extracting minimal, confident rules using fixed-consequent ARM Our methodology relieves the user from the burden of specifying a minimum support threshold by extracting the highest support rules that satisfy user confidence threshold. Albeit, to the best of our knowledge, no previous work has attempted to mine minimal confident rules with fixed consequents, we provide a comparison analysis study showing how well we compare to other close approaches in the literature In terms of limitations, we acknowledge that our approach suffers in situations where the desired rules lie deep in the tree because a large number of nodes and levels need to be traversed then. A future direction in this area targets finding measures for estimating the probability of rule availability along certain branches and quitting early in cases where such probability is low 7. References 1] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD \(Washington, D.C 1993 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, Fast algorithms for mining association rules. Proceeding of the VLDB \(Santiago, Chile 1994 3] K. Ahmed, N. EI-Makky and Y. Taha  A note on  Beyond Market Baskets: Generalizing association rules to correlations  ACM SIGKDD Explorations, Vol. 1, Issue 2 pp. 46-48, 2000 4] Y. Bastide, N. Pasquier, R. Taouil, G. Stumme, and L Lakhal, Mining Minimal Non-Redundant Association Rules using Frequent Closed Item sets. Proceedings of the First International Conference on Computational Logic \(London UK 5] R. Bayardo, R. Agrawal, and D. Gunopulos, ConstraintBased Rule Mining in Large, Dense Databases. Proceedings of the IEEE ICDE \(Sydney, Australia 6] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal, Mining the most interesting rules. Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDD \(San Diego, CA 1999 7] C. Becquet, S. Blachon, B. Jeudy, JF. Boulicaut, and O Grandrillon  Strong-association-rule mining for large-scale gene expression data analysis: a case on human SAGE data   Genome Biology, 3\(12 8] F. Coene, P. Leng, and S. Ahmed  Data Structure for Association Rule Mining: T-Tree and P-Trees  IEEE transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 16\(6 778, 2004 9] E. Cohen, M. Datar, S. Fujiwara, A. Gionis, P. Indyk, R Motwani, J. D. Ullman, and C. Yang  Finding interesting associations without support pruning  IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 13\(1  78, 2001 10] Q. Ding, M. Khan, A. Roy, and W. Perrizo, The p-tree algebra. Proceedings of the ACM SAC, Symposium on Applied Computing \(Madrid, Spain 11] Qin Ding, Qiang Ding, and W. Perrizo, Association Rule Mining on Remotely Sensed Images Using P-trees Proceedings of the PAKDD, Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Springer-Verlag Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 2336, 66-79, May 2002 12] S. Fujiwara, J. D. Ullman and R. Motwani, Dynamic 


12] S. Fujiwara, J. D. Ullman and R. Motwani, Dynamic Miss-Counting Algorithms: Finding Implications and Similarity Rules with Confidence Pruning. Proceedings of the IEEE ICDE \(San Diego, CA 13] F. Glover  Tabu Search for Nonlinear and Parametric Optimization \(with Links to Genetic Algorithms  Discrete Applied Mathematics 49 \(1-3 14] M. Klemettinen, H. Mannila, P. Ronkainen, H Toivonen, and A. Verkamo, Finding interesting rules from large sets of discovered association rules. Proceedings of the ACM CIKM, International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(Kansas City, Missouri 1999 15] C. Ordonez, C. Santana, and L. de Braal, Discovering Interesting Association Rules in Medical Data. Proceedings of the IEEE Advances in Digital Libraries Conference Baltimore, MD 16] W. Perrizo, Peano count tree technology lab notes Technical Report NDSU-CS-TR-01-1, 2001 http://www.cs.ndsu.nodak. edu /~perrizo classes/785/pct.html. January 2003 17] Ron Raymon, An SE-tree based Characterization of the Induction Problem. Proceedings of the ICML, International Conference on Machine Learning \(Washington, D.C 275, 1993 18] N. Shivakumar, and H. Garcia-Molina, Building a Scalable and Accurate Copy Detection Mechanism Proceedings of the International Conference on the Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries, 1996 19] P. Tan, and V. Kumar, Interestingness Measures for Association Patterns: A Perspective, KDD  2000 Workshop on Post-processing in Machine Learning and Data Mining Boston, 2000 20] H.R. Varian, and P. Resnick, Eds. CACM Special Issue on Recommender Systems. Communications of the ACM 40 1997 Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence  ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


