Geographically Targeted Information Dissemination System GeoTIDeS Ranga Ramanujan Ben Burnett Clint Sanders and John Wu Architecture Technology Corporation 9971 Valley View Road Eden Prairie MN 55344 rangagatcorp.com Abstract This paper presents the architecture of a middleware platform called GeoTIDeS Geographically Targeted Information Dissemination System that enables the implementation of location based wireless applications The platform implements the following capabilities that can be accessed by applications through the GeoTIDeS application programming interface 
API 1 A geographically targeted information multicast service that enables an application to send data directed at mobile appliances situated within a specified geographic area 2 A range-restricted information dissemination service that delivers data to mobile appliances within a given range of the information disseminator 3 A banner-in-the-sky service that allows information to be posted within a specified geographic region The posted information is then delivered to mobile appliances entering the region GeoTIDeS is 
implemented as a network service that runs over IP Any Internet-connected wireless or wired device can use GeoTIDeS services to send or receive geographically targeted information No changes to the existing network infrastructure are required to deploy GeoTIDeS'2 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 2 GEoTIDES ARCHITECTURE  2 3 GEoTIDES PROTOTYPE  4 4 CONCLUSIONS 4 REFERENCES 8 BIOGRAPHY 8 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  9.........9 1 INTRODUCTION 
GeoTIDeS Geographically Targeted Information Dissemination System is a middleware platform implemented by Architecture Technology Corporation ATC as part of a DoD-sponsored R&D effort It is designed to enable location based services in areas ranging from telematics emergency services and situation awareness for the military By providing an API for 3rd party developers of location-aware wireless applications it 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1543 Version 6 
Updated January 10 2008 facilitates rapid and cost-effective development of such application software GeoTIDES exploits the widespread availability of low-cost location determination devices such as GPS cards that can be embedded within mobile wireless appliances e.g PDAs cell phones to pin-point their current position It uses such location information provided by a wireless information appliance to implement new application-level protocols that support the following capabilities that can be accessed 
by applications via the GeoTIDeS API 1 Geographically targeted information multicast service that enables an application to send data directed at mobile appliances situated within a specified geographic area 2 Range-restricted information dissemination service that delivers data to mobile appliances within a given range of the information disseminator 3 Banner-in-the-sky service that allows information to be posted within a specified geographic region The posted information is then delivered to mobile appliances entering the region GeoTIDeS is 
implemented as a network service that runs over IP It requires no changes to the Internet infrastructure Any Internet-connected wireless or wired device can use GeoTIDeS services to send or receive geographically targeted information No changes to the existing network infrastructure are required to deploy GeoTIDeS All geographically targeted information is transmitted as standard IP packets over the network There are no changes to the IP packet format Furthermore there is no 
information in the data packets that would reveal the geographic area to which the information is being delivered GeoTIDeS employs an implementation architecture that allows the middleware service to scale to millions of wireless clients Furthermore the service is designed to protect the anonymity of the receivers of geographically targeted information That is the actual location and the identity of the wireless receiver e.g IP address of the receiver is hidden from the sender of the information 1 


2 GEoTIDES ARCHITECTURE GeoTIDeS software is composed of two main elements i.e GeoHost Services GHost and the Geographic Name Service GNS that are described below GeoHost Services GHost This is software that runs on a host or information appliance that may be wired or wireless mobile or stationary It supports the API for applications running on the hosts to send or receive geographically targeted information It also interfaces with a position location device e.g a GPS card on the host to determine its position and provide this information to the GeoTIDes server the mobile clients of the registered surrogates The GNS can be queried by any sender in the network to obtain the full directory information down to the level of the IP address of a surrogate serving a mobile node in a geographic region of interest Messages sent to a surrogate by a sender are relayed by that surrogate to the mobile node that is associated with it A sender that wishes to send geographically addressed messages first sends a query to the GNS specifying the target polygon defining the destination of the message The GNS responds with the IP addresses of all the registered surrogates for mobile nodes within the destination polygonal area There are two major alternatives for how the sender could proceed from here Second Level GNS  First Level GNS  Figure 1 An Example GNS Tree Distributed Geographic Name Service GNS These network resident servers that may be collocated or geographically distributed implement the mechanisms that serve to route messages from the senders to receivers of geographically targeted messages Each mobile host is associated with a surrogate or proxy resident on the fixed network which intercepts and processes all messages to and from the mobile node Mobile nodes periodically report their GPS-derived location information to their surrogates in the fixed IP network Each surrogate in turn relays this information to the GNS server covering the region where its mobile client is currently located The surrogate also registers its IP address with the GNS The GNS therefore maintains a mapping between the IP addresses of surrogates and the GPS derived location of 1 It could send a set of unicast messages to all surrogates corresponding to the IP addresses returned by the GNS 2 It could request all the surrogates in the region of interest to join a temporary multicast group for the geographic area specified in the message This avoids sending the same message across the same link several times Thus after the set of relevant surrogates is determined by the GNS the temporary multicast group is established and all packets with that multicast address are sent on that multicast address The sender can determine which of these two mechanisms to use at run-time depending upon the number of nodes in the destination group and the number of packets to be transmitted 2 


The distributed GNS servers are organized as a logical tree Figure 1 shows an example of such a GNS tree Each GNS at the lowest level of the tree i.e first level GNS covers a defined local geographic region It maintains the mapping between the IP addresses and GPS-derived location data of all the registered surrogates that have mobile nodes located in that region It also maintains a pointer i.e IP address of its parent GNS in the GNS tree Each GNS at the second level is associated with a geographic region that covers the union of the regions associated with the level 1 GNSs that are its children Each GNS at the second level maintains the IP addresses of all level 1 GNSs whose regions fall within the boundaries of the larger region covered by the level 2 GNS It also maintains a pointer to its parent in the GNS tree Similarly each GNS at level 3 maintains pointers to all level 2 GNSs whose coverage falls within its region of interest as well as a pointer to the parent GNS in the tree Note that in this scheme only the level 1 GNSs actually maintain the mapping between the IP addresses of surrogates and the location of their associated mobile nodes GNSs at higher levels only maintain the IP addresses of GNSs that are either their parent or children in the GNS tree A sender that wishes to send a message to a certain geographic area first invokes the locate mobiles 0 routine implemented by the GHost at that machine The parameters of the routine define the geographic region of interest ROI The GHost then sends a message to the local level 1 GNS requesting the IP addresses of all the mobiles the are within the ROI The level 1 GNS determines whether the ROI intersects with its coverage region If so it looks up its database and returns the list of registered mobiles that fall within the ROI specified in the request If the ROI is not fully contained within the coverage region of the level 1 GNS it relays the request to its level 2 parent Now the level 2 GNS checks to determine whether any of its other children cover any part of the ROI If so it relays the request to all those children whose coverage region intersects at least partially with the ROI If not the request is relayed to its level 3 parent This process continues until the request reaches the all the level 1 GNSs whose coverage region intersects with the ROI at least partially Each of these GNSs then responds with the IP addresses of mobiles in its region that fall within the ROI Once the locate mobile call to the GHost returns with a list of the IP address of mobiles in the ROI the sender has a number of alternatives for disseminating data to these mobile nodes as described earlier  e.g via unicast or multicast Since delivery of messages is performed using IP addresses a surrogate for a mobile client may continue receiving the unicast or multicast messages sent by the sender even after its mobile client leaves the ROI if session times are long To overcome this problem each message from the sender identifies the destination ROI When a surrogate receives a message with an ROI that is inconsistent with the current location of its mobile client it simply discards the message If the message is multicast then the surrogate unregisters itself from the multicast address In the case of unicast messages the surrogate sends a message back to the sender notifying it that its mobile client no longer is located in the ROI The sender can then drop this surrogate from the receiver list maintained by it How does a surrogate for a mobile node or mobile client find the level 1 GNS to register itself The surrogate uses the directory service such as the IETF defined Service Location Protocol 1 to determine a GNS at any level within its network domain It then sends a find GNS query to this local GNS providing it with the location of its mobile client This message is then routed through the tree of GNSs in a similar fashion to that described above to the GNS covering the region of the mobile client's location This GNS responds to the find GNS with its IP address and its coverage region The surrogate uses this information to register its mobile client It also determines when its client moves out of the coverage region of the level 1 GNS When this happens it uses the process described above to find the new level 1 GNS that it must register with As noted earlier each surrogate periodically sends a registration message containing its IP address and the current GPS derived location of its mobile client to the appropriate level 1 GNS The level 1 GNS monitors the entries of registered surrogates in its database to determine the last time that each surrogate checked in Any surrogate that has not sent a registration message within a threshold interval is discarded from the database How does a mobile that enters a region after the start of a session join the ongoing session This is accomplished as follows The sender periodically checks the membership list of the ROI If a new mobile becomes eligible to receive the data transmitted by the sender then the sender adds it to its list of receivers using one of the two mechanisms described earlier i.e unicast or multicast We also developed the design of GeoTIDeS software that implements a location dependent information pull service i.e a location dependent URL service where the Web page that is delivered to the user for a specified URL is dependent on the location of the user Suppose situational awareness SA data needed in tactical environments is distributed across several geographically separated information dissemination servers IDSs where each IDS only contains SA data relevant to its region of the battlespace In this case GeoTIDeS allows a warfighter to use a single common URL to access the SA web servers say www.SA.mil irrespective of where the warfighter is located GeoTIDeS would resolve the URL to the nearest situational awareness server containing information needed by the warfighter 3 


This is accomplished as follows Every SA server registers with the GNS serving its region providing it with its URL i.e www.SA.mil and its IP address The GNS thus maintains a database of location dependent URLs within its region and the IP addresses of the associated web servers When a mobile requests a URL its surrogate sends a locate-web serverO request to the local GNS specifying the URL and the mobile's GPS-derived location When the GNS receives such a request it examines its URL database to determine whether the request can be satisfied If so it responds with the IP address of the web server associated with the URL Otherwise it relays the request to its level 2 parent The latter transmits the request to all its other children and waits for their response If one or more children respond with addresses of web servers it selects the addressthat is closest in terms of physical location to the requester and sends it to the requesting surrogate Otherwise if none of its children find an appropriate web server the request is relayed to the level 3 parent GNS of the level 2 GNS and so on 3 GEoTIDES PROTOTYPE We implemented a full-scale prototype of GeoTIDeS and demonstrated its capabilities through laboratory experiments The following paragraphs present the components of the GeoTIDeS prototype visible to the operators and users of the system i.e the GNS Manager graphical user interface GUI the Information Dissemination Manager and the Mobile Client GNS Manager The GNS Manager GUI provides an operator with a single-point interface to monitor the distributed servers that make up the GNS The GUI depicts the relationships between the executing GNS servers as a hierarchical tree By clicking on a node within the tree the operator can determine the children if any associated with this GNS node as well as the region of the geographical space managed by the selected node Figures 2 through 4 show several screen shots of the GNS manager GUI where each screenshot depicts a different selection of a node within the GNS tree The highlighted region within the map shown on each of these figures represents the region managed by the node selected on that figure The GUI enables the user to select areas within the map to which messages may be sent Figure 5 shows several rectangular regions selected by the user After selecting one or more regions of interest within a map the user can compose messages to be sent to the selected regions Figure 6 shows the GUI that enables such message composition In addition to text the user may associate prerecorded audio files to the message Mobile Client The mobile client used for the demonstrations was an iPAQ equipped with a dual-card sleeve One slot in the sleeve was used for a wireless WAN card and another slot was used for a GPS card shown in Figures 7 Figure 8 shows the GUI implemented on the iPAQ to display messages received by the mobile device As shown in the figure the message display screen is split into two windows The upper window displays currently active messages in the region where the client is located When the client leaves the region associated with a geographically targeted message the message in marked as inactive and moved to the lower window It remains there until it is deleted by the user 4 CONCLUSIONS GeoTIDeS exploits the widespread availability of low-cost GPS cards for mobile computers that make mobile user location information easily available It uses GPS-based location information provided by user equipment to implement new application-level protocols to support capabilities such as geographically targeted multicasts of information range-restricted information dissemination and location-dependent access to distributed information services Such a capability will enable future situational awareness systems where intelligence and tactical sensor data must be exploited to provide customized locationspecific information to mobile users In terms of related work in the area of location-based network services Imielinski and Navas 2 proposed three alternative schemes for implementing GPS-based routing However unlike GeoTIDeS all these schemes require changes to the network infrastructure e.g changes to IP's unicast and multicast routing protocols and changes to DNS Information Dissemination Manager IDM The Information Dissemination Manager IDM is a application that was built over GeoTIDeS to demonstrate the capabilities of the technology It provides a map-based GUI for a user to compose and send geographically targeted messages Figure 5 shows the GUI depicting a map of a region of interest in Washington DC where one of the technology demonstrations was performed 4 


243.197X002 andChld 5 Fiue3 N aae 1 h C Show reionmaagd y hid1 43:70 


Figuire 4 GNS Manager GUI Shows legion lmanaged by Child 2 243.158:7002 Figtre 5 Map-Based GUTI for Information Disseinnation Manager IDM 6 


Figu e 6 Message Composition lIterifce fbo IDM Fi;gutre 7 iAQ-based GeoTIDeS Mobile Client 7 


REFERENCES 1 E Guttman C Perkins J Veizades and M Day Service Location Protocol Version 2 Internet Engineering Task Force RFC 2608 June 1999 2 T Imielinski and J Navas GPS-Based Addressing and Routing IETF RFC 2009 Experimental Category Nov 1996 BIOGRAPHY Dr Ranga Ramanujan received his PhDEE from the University of Iowa in 1985 Between 1985 and 1989 he was employed at Honeywell Systems and Research Center where he led research efforts in distributed computing and fault tolerance for military applications He joined ATC in 1989 and currently serves as its Chief Technology Officer He has served as the PI of over 15 research efforts sponsored by agencies such as DARPA the US Army the U.S Navy U.S Air Force U.S Coast Guard NSF and NASA Dr Ramanujan led the research effort to develop the Satellite Data Exchange SDX secure messaging system for the US Coast Guard Following successful productization this system is currently operational on the USCG fleet of small and medium cutters He was one of the architects of ATC's TCP-Tactical solution for the DARPA Control Plane program that yielded dramatic performance improvements over TCP Dr Ramanujan has served as the PI for three different DARPA programs in the networking area that produced successful technology prototypes some of which have been leverages by other efforts at ATC He has served on the program committees of the 2002 ACM Workshop on Wireless Security the 1997 International Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems the 1996 and 1997 Heterogeneous Computing Workshops and the 1987 Real Time Systems Symposium Dr Ramanujan has published over 30 technical papers in the areas of computer networks and distributed computing E  Ben Burnett is an R&D engineer at Architecture Technology Corporation ATC He received his BSCS from Iowa State University in 1999 Since joining ATC in 2000 Mr Burnett has focused on developing distributed network monitoring visualization and test tools research and development in distributed agent systems advancing wireless data communications development of custom and COTS software into commercial products and software design and implementation Mr Burnett has two patents and another pending for his work in distributed network monitoring and recombination and his work with network traffic and flow mimicking using events and triggers Clint Sanders is an R&D engineer at Architecture Technology Corporation ATC He obtained the BS degree in Computer Engineering from Iowa State University in 1999 Since joining ATC in 2000 Mr Sanders has focused on application development for networking solutions which include TCP stack alterations creating application servers proxies and routers He implemented key components of the GeoTIDeS prototype system presented in this paper 8 


L f l Dr John Wu received his Ph.D from the University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne U K in 1990 He has a over 17years of experience in jjg~~~Jj the research and development of distributed system to provide anautomatedand applications intelligent systems databases and Intemnet technologies At ATC Dr Wu has led several R&D efforts including the development of an Agent-Based Active Network ABAN system to provide an automated and intelligent information dissemination service for more effective communications under rapidly changing warfighting environments ABAN aims to enhance the Army's Future Combat Systems with seamless flow of secure context-aware and personally adapted information wherever and whenever the warfighter needs it The success of the project was recognized with a nomination for the Army's 2005 SBIR Quality Award ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Kevin Millikin and Sanjukta Roy made key contributions to the implementation of the GeoTIDeS prototype Their contributions are gratefully acknowledged 9 


The second state describes the need to impose any operational restrictions which are mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Hence No means no operational restrictions while a Yes means that some operational restrictions are necessary Finally the third state describes whether some emergency or abnormal operation is applied which is mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Here Yes means that emergency or abnormal operation must be applied while No means that an emergency or abnormal procedure is not necessary Both criteria are related to the failure and function characteristics which are given as input to the ETA One presumption is that only failure effects with possible operational or economic consequences according to MSG-3 should be included in the analysis The failure characteristics also include the rate of occurrence which will affect the outcome of the analysis The characteristics of the failure will also advice whether the occurrence of failure will be recognized by the crew or not As standard design practice if the failure has any operational consequences it should be evident to the crew The combination of different events Yes or No within the states of the two criteria operational phase and operating capability will create different scenarios that in turn will determine the ultimate operational consequences Based on the possible combination of events 25 different scenarios were identified which will lead to the following classification of consequences no operational consequence airborne and/or ground delays and emergency or abnormal operation Out of the 25 different scenarios that were identified there are six scenarios with no operational consequences One of these scenarios is when the failure never occurs i.e scenario 25 The other five scenarios where no operational consequences occur are where the failure's associated maintenance is deferrable and there are no necessary operational or abnormal restrictions i.e scenarios 2 6 11 16 and 21 Hence the only difference between these five scenarios is the operational phase where the failure occurs There are 14 event scenarios where the consequences are some sort of delay i.e scenarios 1 3 4 5 8 9 10 13 14 15 18 19 20 and 24 Out of these there are five scenarios where the operational consequences are manifested as only airborne delay i.e scenarios 1 5 10 15 and 20 These scenarios are related to the occurrence of a failure that is related to deferrable items but that requires some operational restrictions Abnormal procedures contribute to operational consequences in scenarios 7 12 17 and 22 All these scenarios are related to failures with non-deferrable items that have some sort of operational restrictions and necessitates emergency and abnormal procedures by the flight crew The main difference between the scenarios is the phase of flight where the failure occurs In scenarios 7 and 12 the failure occurs prior to dispatch or during takeoff respectively The two scenarios 17 failure occurs during cruise and 22 failure occurs during approach and landing result in diversion Also there are situations such as scenario 23 in which the aircraft is in landing mode and the occurrence of a sudden failure in some systems may reduce the capability of the aircraft to complete the landing mission Hence the pilot may perform a touch and go 8 ILLUSTRATION OF THE PROPOSED ETA In order to illustrate the proposed ETA and to demonstrate the application of the constructed event tree an Avionic Ventilation System AVS of a hypothetical twin-engine single aisle aircraft has been selected The associated data were gathered from particular airlines and then altered for confidentiality reasons to represent typical scenarios Avionic Ventilation System A VS The AVS is used to cool different avionics equipment AVS comprises different components such as computer blower extract fan sensors filter and valves One of the most important functions of the AVS computer is to control the AVS system's valves to open and close and fans to turn on or off The skin air inlet valve is installed in the fuselage skin to provide an outdoor air supply gateway for AVS on the ground see Figure 5 Figure 5 on the ground the valve is 10 _10 Fan Skin air inlet valve schematic diagram This valve is electrically operated but i Filter Air flow Valve can be manually overridden When the aircraft is 


fully open and in flight the valve is fully closed One of the functional failures which might occur with an AVS system could be defined as Skin Air Inlet Valve fails to close at take-off power setting Taking off with the Skin Air Inlet valve open instead of closed damages the avionics ventilation ducts and may have potential effects on both cabin pressurization and degradation of avionics ventilation performance If the valve is not function properly at take-off power setting prior to take-off a warning message appears on the cockpit display unit so that cockpit crew will be aware of the fault prior to take-off Therefore the conditional probability of detection of failure prior to take-off is 100 see Figure 6 This failure has no catastrophic or safety effect on the aircraft and its occupants However in order to avoid associated effect on cabin pressurization issues and to protect damage to the system the MEL advises that the valve should be closed manually on the ground and the related electrical connection should be isolated This is an immediate action which is required to fly with an inoperative Skin Air Inlet Valve within a certain limited time without any operational restrictions see Figure 6 Therefore the aircraft has to be returned to the ramp/gate so that the maintenance crew can perform these actions before further dispatch Hence this failure is classified as an evident failure with operational effect Based on the proposed ETA the only possible scenario is number 4 which results in the operational consequence Ground delay at departure see Figure 6 In order to quantify the rate at which operational consequences occur the frequency of failure failure rate or intensity should be multiplied by both the conditional probability of occurrence of this failure in different operational phases states 1.1 to 1.5 and the conditional probability of adverse affect of the failure on the operation capability states 2.1 to 2.3 This may be expressed as in Equation 1 The failure rate of Skin air inlet valve fails to close at take-N 1 2 3 4 S inariret vaKefailstD dcs 1 2 1 iec.lity  eah phaseofflight 1.4 Cuse 15 lArcax h  Ii adrg 2 Efedof failueon opering apability 2.1 Ddab 22 23 1 p e U6rng aFerabcn abromni restricicrn prcecdre Ria ID Takedfl 0imb takeoff Yeslow_ 260\260\260 Oocunof failure during 0 ca 0 a 0 Oper.iornl Cancieia m Ar1xmeclde I Nbcperaicnnipat I A rbcrnecblay Grardcalja 4 daeLre I G I_dddajdt"I I Figure 6 Proposed ETA of the hypothetical AVS system K Annual cost of scenario per aircraft Aircraft/year Rate of occurrence of each operational consequence scenario K Rate of occurrencj of scenario per FH Failure rate X Unit cost of ground delay al departure per FH x Conditional probability of states in criteria 1 x Conditional probability of states in criteria 2 t Duration Average annua2 X of delay X utilization X J 0 J 0 FH/yearJ 2 Quantity Per Aircraft QPA 2 11 11 1.2 1.3 


off power setting is 1 12e-5 per Flight Hour FH based on historical data The conditional probability of states in criteria 1 prior to take-off is estimated to 100 as the failure will be evident to the crew prior to take-off The conditional probability of states in criteria 2 nondeferrable with no operational restriction is estimated to 100 as the failure is not deferrable and it does not impose any operational restrictions as the aircraft is not allowed to take-off with the failure present according to the MEL Hence the rate of occurrence of scenario number 4 for AVS is 1.12e 5 per FH X 100 X I100  1.12e 5 per FH The outcome of the ETA on the hypothetical AVS system and the applicable values for each probability which has been gathered from historical data and expert opinions is shown in Figure 6 In order to estimate the cost of associated consequences standard average cost can be used for different operational consequences which normally are provided by the manufacturer or airlines For this specific case i.e scenario number 4 the assumptions made are displayed in Table 1 as advised by experienced practitioners Table 1 Cost Figures of some Type of Operational Consequences Consequences Magnitude Cost Long more than 30 min 70 min Ground delay Short less than 30 min 30 min Long more than 30 min 58 min Airborne delay Short less than 30 min 28 min The annual total cost for each consequence scenario for whole aircraft could be estimated in accordance with Equation 2 Hence the annual cost of scenario number 4 considering 3,000 FH of utilization per year is estimated to 1.12e per FH x 60 min/60 lhr delay time x 70 min x 60 min  420 hr x 3,000 FH year x QPA 1 The proposed methodology could also be adapted as a support for cost-effectiveness analysis of candidate maintenance tasks during the development of aircraft maintenance programs However the analysis documentation also constitutes an important part of the knowledge base which is also useful for design operation and maintenance of the aircraft In order to implement the proposed methodology and achieve valuable results accurate and sufficient data and information are needed as input data for the analysis This information is related to the technical system and its reliability e.g failure modes and their frequency of occurrence and maintainability performances e.g Built-in Test Equipment modularization and Line Replaceable Units Other information that is needed is related to aircraft operation and associated procedures given in formal documents such as the MEL FM FCOM and QRH Also information about the maintenance support performance is necessary The operational consequences and the probabilities of different events included in the proposed event tree can be quantified by the aid of historical data or expert judgments However an exact quantification and assessment of the cost of operational consequences of failures is a challenge due to a long list of influencing factors and inadequacy of required information One example is the challenge to determine a good estimation of the failure rate which requires the collection of data from the world fleet This collection of data is difficult since removal data do not necessarily imply a failure or since subsequent test level has difficulties to duplicate test results achieved at preceding test levels i.e no fault found events Another reason is that even if there is a failure it is not always possible to link the reported failure to the functional failure or failure mode identified in the MSG-3 analysis When there is a lack of historical data expert judgments can be a good source of information To support an effective extraction of the field experts knowledge there are systematic methodologies available e.g pair wise comparison 14.14 aircraft/year 9 DISCUSSION The scenario descriptions using the event trees give a detailed picture of the possible operational consequences of different failures in aircraft system during operation Hence the proposed methodology is considered as a valuable support in the assessment of the operational consequences of failures 12 


REFERENCES 1 IEC Electropedia International Electrotechnical Vocabulary IEV Chapter 191 Dependability and Quality of Service Web site http://www.electropedia.org 2 Anthony M Smith and Glenn R Hinchcliffe Reliability Centered Maintenance Oxford Elsevier 2004 3 Albert H.C Tsang Condition-Based Maintenance tools and Decision-Making Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering 1\(3 3-17 1995 4 Balbir S Dhilion Maintainability Maintenance and Reliability for Engineers New York Taylor  Francis 2006 5 NAVAIR NAVAIR 00-25-403 Guidelines for the Naval Aviation Reliability-Centered Maintenance Process Patuxent River Naval Air Systems Command 2005 6 DoD MIL-STD-2173\(AS Reliability-Centered Maintenance Requirements for Naval Aircraft Weapons Systems and Support Equipment Washington DC Department of Defense 1986 7 Transport Canada TP 13850 Scheduled Maintenance Instruction Development Process Manual Ottawa Transport Canada 2003 8 John Moubray Reliability-Centered Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann 1997 Maintenance 9 F Stanly Nowlan and Howard F Heap ReliabilityCentered Maintenance Springfield National Technical Information Service 1978 10 William G Sulivan Elin M Wicks and James T Luxhoj Engineering Economy New Jersey Pearson Education 2006 11 Raimond R Hoch A Practical Application of Reliability Centered Maintenance 1990 Joint ASME/IEEE Power Generation Conference Proceedings October 21-25 1990 12 Marvin Rausand and Arnljot H0yland System Reliability Theory Model Statistical Method and Application New Jersey John Wiley 2004 13 IEC IEC 60300-3-11 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 11 Reliability Centred Maintenance Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1999 14 Marc Sachon and M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Delay and Safety in Airline Maintenance Reliability Engineering and System Safety 67\(3 301-309 March 2000 15 Ove Nja and Thor Erik N0kland Risk Analysis A Tool to Support Decision Making But Who Cares About the Decisions European Safety and Reliability Conference Proceedings June 27-30 2005 16 Per Anders Akersten Condition Monitoring and Risk and Reliability Analysis 2006 Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management Conference Proceedings June 12-15 2006 17 Marvin Rausand and J0m Vatn Reliability Centered Maintenance  Risk and Reliability in Marine Technology conference Rotterdam Balkeman 1998 18 M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Fault Trees vs Event Trees in Reliability Analysis Risk Analysis 4\(3 177-186 September 1984 19 CCPS Guidelines for Hazard Evaluation Procedures with Worked Examples New York Center for Chemical Process Safety 1992 20 Mohammad Modarres What Every Engineer Should Know about Reliability and Risk Analysis New York Marcel Dekker 1993 21 IEC IEC 60300-3-9 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 9 Risk Analysis of Technological Systems Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1995 BIOGRAPHIES Alireza Ahmadi has more than 10 years experience as an aircraft licenced engineer and manager of maintenance planning and control department He is currently a PhD candidate at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology Sweden His research topic is related to the cost-effectiveness of aircraft scheduled maintenance tasks Peter Soderholm is a senior lecturer at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology His research topics are risk dependability and eMaintenance mainly within aviation He received his MSc degree in Mechanical Engineering in 2001 and PhD in 13 


Operation and Maintenance Engineering in 2005 both from Lulea University of Technology Lulea Sweden ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank Mr Christian Delmas Director of Maintenance Program Engineering Airbus S.A.S who gave us the opportunity to start this collaboration and Mr Jeremie Neveux and Mr Raphael Laforgue who identified the need to investigate this subject and for their time and useful comments given on drafts of this paper The authors also would like to thank Professor Uday Kumar Lule'a University of Technology for his valuable discussion and guidance 14 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


