Adaptive Sky A Feature Correspondence Toolbox for a Multi-Instrument Multi-Platform Distributed Cloud Monitoring Sensor Web Michael C Burl Michael J Garay Yi Wang and Justin Ng Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 818-393-1791 Michael.C.Burl\(jpl.nasa.gov Abstract The current suite of spaceborne and in-situ assets including those deployed by NASA NOAA and other groups provides distributed sensing of the Earth's atmosphere oceans and land masses As part of an activity supported 
through NASA's Earth Science Technology Office ESTO we have developed techniques that enable such assets to be dynamically combined to form sensor webs that can respond quickly to short-lived events and provide rich multi-modal observations of objects such as clouds that are evolving in space and time A key focus of this work involves relating the observations made by one instrument to the observations made by another instrument We have applied approaches derived from data mining computer vision and machine learning to 
automatically establish correspondence between different sets of observations We will describe a number of Earth science scenarios that were used to direct this development and which have benefited from the approach.12 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION  
1 2 BACKGROUND 1 3 EARTH SCIENCE RELEVANCY 2 4 THE SCIENCE SCENARIOS 2 5 TECHNICAL APPROACH 3 6 RESULTS 4 7 DISCUSSION 5 8 SUMMARY  DIRECTIONS FOR FUTURE WORK 7 9 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 7 
REFERENCES  7 BIOGRAPHY  7 1 INTRODUCTION A ubiquitous problem in distributed sensing is relating the observations made by one instrument to the observations made by another instrument The Adaptive Sky project funded by NASA's Earth Science Technology Office ESTO was designed to connect the dots by creating a toolbox of methods for automatically establishing correspondence between different sets of observations The 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2IEEEAC paper 1254 Version 1 Updated October 24 
2007 toolbox includes purely data-driven methods as well as hybrid approaches that utilize metadata and ancillary information such as sensor geometry and geolocation parameters The toolbox also includes image co-registration techniques based on matching viewpoint invariant descriptors A well-documented application programming interface API has been developed which will allow future Earth Science sensor webs to leverage these capabilities in much the same way the numerical computing community has leveraged tools like LINPACK/LAPACK 1 and Numerical Recipes 2 2 BACKGROUND The current suite of 
spaceborne and in-situ assets provides distributed sensing of the Earth's atmosphere oceans and land masses A sensor web goes a step beyond distributed sensing and attempts to create a set of interconnected agents or nodes which can jointly make observations of the environment Arguments for coupling agents together into sensor webs revolve around two themes O Timeliness Agents must quickly share information and act so that an important opportunity will not be lost Note that in the absence of time pressure 
the agents could simply downlink and centralize their data on the ground for later analysis as in the classical distributed sensing paradigm O Resource Limitations Individual agents are in some way deficient not having the ability to perform certain duties without the aid of other agents For example agents may have to work together simply to make their measurements e.g bistatic radar or to communicate their data e.g via an orbiting relay station packet multihopping in networks 
with limited-range radio links This situation also arises if agents do not locally have sufficient power computing ability or other resources Each agent in a sensor web has an internal state that is derived in part from the agent's own observations i.e sensory input as well as from messages the agent has received from other agents At any instant in time an agent chooses an action based on its current state Potential actions are platform specific but could include 1 


o Use actuators to move point scan or deploy o Modify data collection parameters to turn on/off a given instrument choose spatial spectral or temporal sampling set transmit polarization or power calibrate an instrument etc o Communicate information to another agent or agents o Modify internal state to change to a different mode latch data for later use compute a derived quantity from available data set a timer or event trap etc The Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment ASE onboard EO-1 has provided one of the most compelling sensor web demonstrations to date 15 The EO-1 satellite has been linked with other satellite and ground assets to provide a global surveillance capability for science and environmental events such as flooding fires and volcanic activity Adaptive Sky is not a sensor web demonstration per se but instead aims at developing underlying technology to support a variety of sensor web concepts We focus on the narrower problem of relating the observations of one agent at time t to the observations of another agent at time t Toward this goal we have developed both metadata and data-driven functions which are encapsulated in a well-tested and welldocumented C-language toolbox The toolbox concept should allow future sensor web applications to readily ingest this functionality 3 EARTH SCIENCE RELEVANCY In the late 1980's NASA conceived the Earth Observing System EOS program a series of missions to study the Earth using sophisticated new sensors and provide the data to increase scientific understanding of global climate change 3 From the very beginning of the program distributed sensing was a fundamental component of EOS 4 and this aspect remains important with the completion of the A-Train of instruments expected in early 2008 5 Although Adaptive Sky is intended to be applicable to a variety of sensor web concepts we have found it useful during development and testing to focus on a few prototypical scenarios involving the scientific study of clouds with sensor webs For our test scenarios the observations from the EOS instruments on the Terra satellite and on the A-Train group of satellites provide realistic data to develop and showcase the capabilities of the toolbox Clouds are a dominant feature in the atmosphere playing a central role in regulating the energy budget of the planet and regulating the hydrological cycle 6 Understanding clouds and their impact on the climate system of the Earth is a major challenge that cuts across a number of Earth Science disciplines including Atmospheric Science Hydrology and Climate Studies Moreover knowledge of the true three-dimensional 3-D nature of clouds particularly their interactions with radiation and atmospheric pollutants is exceptionally limited as identified by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC 7 Current observational capabilities have only recently begun to address the 3-D cloud measurement problem In isolation measurements from EOS instruments have limited utility for global studies due to their restricted horizontal spatial coverage and sparse temporal coverage For example over the 16-day ground-track repeat cycle of the CALIPSO satellite the CALIOP lidar samples less than 0.2 of the total surface area of the planet including day and night ocean land and polar regions 8 However it is only in those places sampled by the lidar that high vertical resolution data is available about cloud and aerosol layers On the other hand ground-based sensing sites such as those operated by the Department of Energy DOE Atmospheric Radiation Measurement ARM program provide dense temporal measurements but only in isolated locations This project used the feature correspondence toolbox to demonstrate a cloud sensor web simulation in which multiple complementary measurements of a cloud element over time from a variety of instruments are automatically combined to provide more complete information about the physical nature of the cloud 4 THE SCIENCE SCENARIOS Four scenarios relevant to Earth Science were identified to help foster the development of the toolbox as well as demonstrate its capability upon completion These scenarios are 1 Match-ups between the morning and afternoon constellations of EOS satellites The morning Terra satellite carries the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer MODIS and the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer MISR The afternoon constellation is known as the A-Train 5 The Aqua satellite carries a second MODIS instrument and the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder AIRS Following Aqua are the CloudSat satellite and the Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations CALIPSO satellite The former carries a cloud radar while the latter carries the Cloud-Aerosol Lidar with Orthogonal Polarization CALIOP a wide-field camera WFC and an infrared imaging radiometer IIR 5 2 Rapid matching of non-georectified MODIS-Terra and MODIS-Aqua images containing wildfire detections 2 


3 Multi-instrument observations of the effusive eruption plume of Mt Saint Augustine in Alaska in early 2006 4 Correspondences between satellite and ground-based observations of clouds over the Santa Catalina Mountains near Tucson Arizona The ground-based observations were acquired by Joseph Zehnder at Arizona State University and colleagues in the summer of 2006 as part of the Cumulus Photogrammetric Insitu and Doppler Observations CuPIDO field campaign The EOS match-up scenario yields increased information about atmospheric processes including cloud-top height and cloud formation and development while at the same time providing important intercalibration information regarding the sensors and the retrieval algorithms themselves These matches require both metadata-level intersection queries and data-level feature matching Interest point operators based on finding corner-like or blob-like structure are first applied to identify keypoints in each image This step is followed by extraction of viewpoint invariant descriptors such as the Scale Invariant Feature Transform SIFT descriptors developed by David Lowe 9 The ability to rapidly match non-georectified MODIS-Terra and MODIS-Aqua images containing wildfire detections is an application of the approach developed for the EOS match-up scenario In order to return timely observations the georectification step which requires metadata files that are produced operationally once the satellite data are downlinked is bypassed The keypoints themselves are used to transform the raw JPEG images into a coordinate system common to one or other of the images This illustrates the capability for future on-board processing for automatic image co-registration for change detection Mt Saint Augustine is a 1260 m high stratovolcano that forms Augustine Island located at approximately 59.362\260 N 153.4310 W in the southwest portion of Cook Inlet approximately 290 km from Anchorage Alaska Augustine began erupting explosively on 11 January 2006 continuing until 28 January at which point it entered a continuously erupting phase that lasted until 2 February 10 The explosive eruptions of Augustine in January 2006 were difficult to monitor from satellites because the volcano was obscured by clouds and/or the eruptions occurred at night 11 However by the beginning of the continuously erupting phase on 30 January conditions had improved allowing the volcano to be observed by a number of sensors on the EOS Terra and Aqua satellites often within a few hours of one another as well as from the NOAA Doppler Weather Service Radar WSR-88D in Anchorage and an aircraft from the Alaska Volcano Observatory AVO This provided a unique opportunity to study the detailed behavior and characteristics of the Augustine plume using the various capabilities of these sensors as well as explore the limits of detectability of the plume Although the CloudSat and CALIPSO satellite had not yet been launched this case provides an overview of the type of science that the sensor web toolbox can facilitate Finally the satellite-CuPIDO scenario provides important new information on cloud 3-D structure and development Feature matching approaches are again essential for identifying and reacquiring individual cloud elements from differing perspectives to facilitate this work In the more difficult version of this scenario dense temporal observations of clouds at a fixed spatial location were required to be converted into a prediction of the spatial distribution of the clouds over a broader area at the specific time of the satellite overpass Rather than relying on keypoints it was decided to focus on maximally stable extremal regions MSERs which seemed more appropriate for this task 12 5 TECHNICAL APPROACH Recognizing that the feature correspondence problem arises in a number of sensor web concepts the toolbox was constructed to contain algorithms that will provide future projects with technically mature ready-to-use solutions According to a review 13 more than 1000 papers were published on image registration alone in the 1990's With so many approaches it is neither feasible nor desirable to attempt to include every possible approach in the toolbox Instead we focused our initial efforts according to the following principles and constraints O Factoring Common Subproblems Feature correspondence can typically be broken down into common subproblems such as defining and locating features characterizing a feature with attributes parameterizing or penalizing the geometric distortions matching features on one signal with features from another according to some objective function deriving a transformation from the correspondences and verifying or grading the proposed transformation at the whole signal level We attempted to create separate methods to address these subproblems The critical issues of feature extraction and matching and the specific approaches chosen to handle them are discussed in more detail below O Factoring Domain-specific Elements We did not wish to over-tailor the toolbox to a specific sensor or situation within limits As much as possible domain-specific information was factored out so that such information can be used by the algorithms rather than being part ofthe algorithms Features The first choice in defining a correspondence algorithm is determining what kind of features to use In some 3 


algorithms image patches local brightness patterns are used directly as features In other cases simple geometric constructs such as points edges lines ridges and corners are used instead Image patch features are difficult to use if there are significant differences in viewing geometry and lighting conditions or if the image is relatively homogeneous and thus lacking identifiable features Even worse pixel values cannot be directly compared between instruments that use different sensing modalities e.g infrared vs visible or visible vs radar backscatter Feature-based Image Registration One of the methods developed for the Adaptive Sky toolbox addresses the problem of automatically registering images of the same scene or object taken from different viewpoints and at different times The method is a feature-based approach inspired by the work of David Lowe 9 The technique is robust against change in image scale rotation 3D distortion change in viewpoint and change in illumination The method first identifies interest points from scale-space extrema in a difference-of-Gaussians DOG filter and extracts invariant feature descriptors at the interest points The invariant feature descriptors are matched between images to establish tentative correspondences From the tentative correspondences RANSAC Random Sample Consensus 14 is used to estimate an initial homography transformation and select inliers The homography inliers are used to recover the epipolar geometry and reject any remaining outliers The Thin Plate Spline algorithm is then used to estimate the non-rigid transformation and further refine the image registration Segmentation-based Cloud Tracking Another method developed for the Adaptive Sky toolbox focuses on the problem of extracting and tracking blob-like features Segmentation is the process of separating an image into approximately homogeneous regions for example based on intensity color or texture The main challenge is to find matching regions in two images of the same scene despite significant differences in viewpoint and differences in the sensor characteristics We have implemented the maximally-stable extremal region MSER approach 12 and applied this technique to track cloud features in image sequences taken from ground-based cameras MSERs are regions of the image Conceptually they are obtained by finding connected components of thresholded versions of the image at various thresholds Connected components that are stable with respect to their size over a wide variation in threshold are taken to be MSERs In practice more efficient algorithms exist for finding MSERs i.e it is not necessary to explicitly run a connected components algorithm at each threshold value MSERs have the advantage that they are closed under continuous geometrical transformation of image coordinates and closed under monotonic transformation of image intensities making them especially useful for tracking the movement and formation of clouds After MSERs are extracted from the images the next step is to identify matching MSERs between the two images Because we are dealing with images taken from the same viewpoint with relatively small time separation between images we are able to reliably perform this matching using simple location size and shape features The approach in 15 uses more sophisticated affine-invariant moment features but we have not found that to be necessary in our work with CuPIDO cloud sequences 6 RESULTS Results of the feature-based image registration algorithm are presented for images of clouds and land taken from the MODIS instrument on Terra and the MODIS instrument on Aqua On a given day there are a number of footprint collisions between these two instruments in which one instrument images a particular geographic area and sometime later the other instrument images part of the same geographic area In the northern latitudes of the United States and southern latitudes of Canada these footprint collisions occur with approximately 3 hour time separation Figure 1 a shows an image taken by MODIS on Aqua centered roughly on Washington state while Figure lb shows an image taken by MODIS on Terra of the same general area taken about three hours later Figure 1 Aqua MODIS image centered on Washington 4 


state b Terra MODIS image of the same general area taken three hours later Figure 2 shows extracted DOG interest points from the Terra image At each interest point SIFT descriptors 9 are extracted These descriptors provide a robust description of the gradient information in a local neighborhood of the interest point Figure 4 shows tentative matches between SIFT descriptors in the two images Subsets of these tentative matches are used to estimate a homography transformation between the two images A homography transformation can be estimated from just four correspondences The number of tentative correspondences that are consistent with the estimated homography is used as a figure-of-merit to say how good is the estimated homography Different homography estimates are obtained and evaluated using different subsets of the tentative correspondences The best homography is retained as a first order solution Correspondences that are at least loosely consistent with the homography are then idenified as inliers while the other tentative correspondences are rejected as outliers The process is repeated using epipolar geometry in place of the homography transformation Epilopolar geometry is captured through the so-called fundamental matrix F which can be estimated from a minimum of seven correspondences Although seven is the minimum we have used the more robust 8-point algorithm in our work RANSAC is again used to estimate F and the best F is identified Correspondences that are loosely consistent with F are retained while others are rejected as outliers In the final step a thin plate spline TPS is used to allow for smooth nonlinear deformations between the two images This technique is commonly used in medical image registration The final result is shown in Figure 4 Here we have created a color image in which the red component is the original Terra MODIS grayscale image from Figure lb and the cyan component blue and green channels is the TPS-warped version of the Aqua MODIS grayscale image from Figure la Regions that appear gray are areas where the two images align well Colored regions show areas where the registered images did not map well Aside from the red areas in the corners which represent areas seen by MODIS Terra but not by MODIS Aqua most of the registration differences are due to cloud motions which for our studies is the scientifically-interesting component Note that this result is obtained in a completely data-driven manner we do not rely on the satellite ephemeris or attitude data except to note in a coarse way that there is a footprint collision between the two instruments Results of the MSER extraction and tracking algorithm are shown in Figures 5\(abc Figure 2 DOG interest points on the Terra image of Figure lb Matched keypoints on 11 Matched keypoints on 12 20 0 0 40 5060 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 Figure 3 Tentative matches between SIFT descriptors in Aqua MODIS and Terra MODIS images 5 


Figure 4 Co-registration of Aqua MODIS image and Terra MODIS image 3 hour time separation Red  Terra image Cyan  warped Aqua image 7 DISCUSSION The feature-based image registration algorithm appears to work quite well for registering the land The next step is to establish registration between the cloud elements One possibility for this step is to remove all the features that have been successfully accounted for by the geometrical transformation from one image to the other The remaining features could then be re-examined using the same procedure to recover a second dominant motion Because the SIFT features are somewhat sparse in the cloud interiors it is not clear whether this approach will work i.e whether there will be enough features on just the clouds Another option is to adapt the MSER tracking approach that we have thus far mainly considered for the CuPIDO image sequence data to segment the clouds into blobs and then try to establish correspondence between the blobs based on factors such as size shape displacement Here predictive dynamical models for example driven by auxiliary wind information could be incorporated into a Kalman filter framework to improve the association process Figure 5 MSERs extracted from a sequence of CuPIDO ground camera images 5 minute time separation 6 


8 SUMMARY  DIRECTIONS FOR FUTURE WORK The Adaptive Sky toolbox is intended to provide a robust suite of well-tuned methods for automatically establishing correspondence between different sets of observations with the target audience directed toward people developing sensor webs In this paper we have described several science scenarios which are driving the development of the toolbox as well as several of the early capabilities Future directions include continuing to populate the toolbox with broadly useful methods and optimizing the existing code to be useful in the resource-limited regime likely to exist in many sensor web applications 9 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was performed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration The MISR and CALIPSO data were obtained from the NASA Langley Research Center Atmospheric Science Data Center The MODIS data were obtained from the Level 1 and Atmosphere Archive and Distribution System The CloudSat data were acquired from the CloudSat Data Processing Center located at the Cooperative Institute of Research in the Atmsophere at Colorado State University in Fort Collins Thanks to Dr Joseph Zehnder Arizona State University for supplying the CuPIDO data REFERENCES 1 J J Dongarra C B Moler J R Bunch and G W Stewart LINPACK Users Guide Philadelphia SIAM 1979 2 William H Press Saul A Teukolsky William T Vetterling and Brian P Flannery Numerical Recipes in C The Art of Scientific Computing 2nd Edition New York Cambridge University Press 1992 3 Michael D King David D Herring and David J Diner The Earth Observing System A Space-based Program for Assessing Mankind's Impact on the Global Environment Optics  Photonics News 6 34-39 January 1995 4 Peter Mouginis-Mark and Coauthors Analysis of Active Volcanoes from the Earth Observing System Remote Sensing of Environment 36 1-12 January 1991 6 Graeme L Stephens Cloud Feedbacks in the Climate System A Critical Review Journal of Climate 18 237273 January 2005 7 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Climate Change 2007 The Physical Science Basis Contribution of Working Group I to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Cambridge UK Cambridge University Press 2007 8 Ralph A Kahn Yang Chen David L Nelson Fok-Yan Leung Qinbin Li David J Diner and Jennifer A Logan Wildfire Smoke Injection Heights Two Perspectives from Space Geophysical Research Letters submitted 2007 9 D Lowe Object Recognition from Local Sacle-Invariant Features Proceedings of the International Conference on Computer Vision September 1999 10 Power J A C J Nye M L Coombs R L Wessels P F Cervelli J Dehn K L Wallace J T Freymueller and M P Doukas The Reawakening of Alaska's Augustine Volcano EOS Transactions of the American Geophysical Union 87 373 377 September 2006 11 Tanja Petersen Silvio De Angelis Guy Tytgat and Stephen R McNutt Local Infrasound Observations of Large Ash Explosions at Augustine Volcano Alaska during January 11-28 2006 Geophysical Research Letters 33 L12303 doi 10.1029 2006GL026491 June 2006 12 J Matas 0 Chum M Urban and T Pajdla Robust Wide-baseline Stereo from Maximally Stable Extremal Regions Image and Vision Computing 22 761 767 February 2006 13 Barbara Zitova and Jan Flusser Image Registration Methods A Survey Image and Vision Computing 21 977-1000 June 2003 14 M.A Fischler and R.C Bolles Random Sample Consensus A Paradigm for Model Fitting with Applications to Image Analysis and Automated Cartography Comm of the ACM 24:381-395 June 1981 15 R Sherwood S Chien D Tran B Cichy R Castano A Davies G Rabideau Autonomous Science Agents and Sensor Webs EO-1 and Beyond IEEE Aerospace Conference 2006 5 Graeme L Stephens and Coauthors The CloudSat Mission and the A-Train Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society 83 1771-1790 December 2002 7 


BIOGRAPHY Michael C Burl is a Principal Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in the Machine Learning and Instrument Autonomy Group He received his Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from Caltech in 1997 and is well-known for his work in applied machine learning computer vision data mining and signal processing He was previously a Vice-Chair for the 2006 SIAM Data Mining Conference and has served on the Program Committees of other top-tier data mining and computer vision conferences Michael J Garay has been a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer MISR science team at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 2003 He received an MS in Atmospheric Sciences from the University of California Los Angeles in 2004 He has experience in data analysis using a variety of satellite and ground-based remote sensing instruments and was a key member of the project that developed and implemented support vector machine classifiers into the MISR operational product His research focuses on remote sensing of clouds and aerosols in the Earth's atmosphere and 3-dimensional radiative transfer Yi Wang is a senior in the Department of Electrical Engineering at the California Institute of Technology He recently received Caltech's Upper Class Merit Award a scholarship given to the most academically-talented students of the Institute I Justin Ng is a sophomore in the Department of Electrical Engineer at the California Institute of Technology 8 


  9 University and an M.S. in Geological Sciences from the University of Southern California Damhnait Gleeson is a Ph.D candidate in the Department of Geological Sciences at the University of Colorado at Boulder currently carrying out research at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Her research explores the potential for life in icy, sulfur-rich environments such as may exist at Jupiter's moon Europa, and investigates the detectability of such life by the study of analogous terrestrial field sites. She is co-advised by Alexis Templeton at the University of Colorado and Bob Pappalardo at the Jet Propulsion Lab Dr. Rebecca Casta\361o is an Assistant Manager of the Instruments Software and Science Data Systems section at JPL. She received her Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Illinois with her dissertation in the area of computer vision. Dr Casta\361o has been advancing the state of the art in onboard science methods for the past five years and has been lead author on numerous publications in this field. From 1999 \226 2001 Dr Casta\361o served as the application lead for phenomenological computational field geology efforts in the MLS Group. She is the technology lead for science data processing for the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment on the New Millennium Program\222s ST6 project. Dr. Casta\361o is also the Team Lead of the Onboard Autonomous Science Investigation System \(OASIS\ project and the subtask lead for Data Analysis on the automated Multirover Integrated Science Understanding System \(MISUS\. Her research interests include machine learning, computer vision, and pattern recognition Dr. Steve Chien is a Principal Computer Scientist in the Mission Planning and Executi on Section at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and Adjunct Associate Professor with the Department of Computer Science of the University of Southern California. He holds a B.S. with Highest Honors in Computer Science, with minors in Mathematics and Economics, M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science all from the University of Illinois. Dr. Chien is a recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award for Excellence and two NASA Exceptional Achievement Medals for his work in research and development of planning and scheduling systems for NASA. He is the Principal Investigator for the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment, a co-winner of the 2005 NASA Software of the Year Award Dr. Carla E. Brodley is a professor in the Department of Computer Science at Tufts University. She received her Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Massachusetts, at Amherst in 1994 From 1994-2004, she was on the faculty of the School of Electrical Engineering at Purdue University West Lafayette, Indiana. Professor Brodley's research interests include machine learning knowledge discovery in databases and computer security In 2004-2005 she was a member of the Defense Science Study Group. In 2001 she served as program co-chair for the International Conference on Machine Learning \(ICML and in 2004, she served as the general chair for ICML Currently she is on the editorial board of the Journal for Machine Learning Research and an associate editor on the Machine Learning Journal. She is a member of the Computing Research Association's Committee on the Status of Women in Computing Research \(CRA-W  


 10       Table 2 - Memor y Technolo gy Com p arison  Sto p li g ht Chart   Figure 17 - Power Consumption \(Watts per Terabit for Flash, DRAM, and NROM technologies. \(ITRS  SRAM DRAM FLASH Chalcogen ide Magnetic MRAM Ferroelectric FRAM NROM Hard Disk Drive Tape Recorder Nanotube Holographic POWER SPEED nS nS 100 nS uS/mS nS nS mS S DENSITY 4 -16 Mb 2 Gb 8 Gb 4 Mb 4 Mb 64 kb 1 TB 2 Gb RADIATION TOLERANCE Mrad 200 krads 150 krads Mrad \(mil 100 krad com'l 50 krad com'l poor krad VOLTATILITY YES YES NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO ENDURANCE unl unl 10K - 100K 10K unl 100K unl inches past head AVAILABILITY Commercial yes yes yes no yes EverSpin yes Ramtron yes no Industrial yes yes a few no yes EverSpin yes Ramtron yes no Mil yes yes no 4q08 BAE yes \(e2V no yes no Space-grade yes no no 4q08 BAE 4q08 HW no no no redesign of custom ASIC required No Longer mfg'd Still in the Laboratory 2011 Still in the Laboratory  MEMORY TECHNOLOGY COMPARISON \(valid Oct 2008 FUTURE TECH 


 11  Impact \226 Strauss\222s Derivative of Moore The impact of such a simple statement is at the same time beautiful and difficult to realize.  What this is telling the designer is that 223For any technology selected, mass and power of any data recorder design will remain relatively constant even as mission data demands increase from one generation to the next.\224  What it Means For all intents and purposes, the \223fit\224 of the SSR can remain relatively constant throughout the years \226 that as the required capacity doubles, the media meets the challenge at the same pace.  Therefore, assuming a recorder of Size X  bits today and performing mass and volume predictions on that design, moving that recorder ahead several generations will result in the same mass and volume, even though the capacity of the data recorder increases exponentially Technology Comparison Table 2 is a compendium of known, published technologies in use or in development today enabling a comparison of any one technology listed for specific attributes against another.  In this stoplight chart, red indicates disfavorable attributes, green equals favorable, and yellow indicates cautionary acceptance.  It can be easily seen that in terms of memory technology for space, the selection is limited \226 especially so when it comes to non-volatile radiation hardened devices Part II 6  H IGH C APACITY S OLID S TATE R ECORDER  The impetus of this paper was the assignment to predict mass, power, volume, and cost for multi-terabit data recorders of the capacities shown in Table 3 with deliveries occurring in the year given [2   Table 3 - Data Recorder Capacity Requirements YEAR DATA CAPACITY 2010 2.88 Tb 2020 30 Tb 2030 130 Tb  This part of the paper presents a design of a 130 Tb NonVolatile data recorder which could be built for delivery in the year 2030, based on the information presented in Part I In developing the SSR design, technology selection was limited to the two technologies examined in detail in Part I Flash and NROM\nd a technology freeze date of 36 months in advance of delivery was assumed  SSR \226 Flash & NROM Based designs Table 4 - ITRS predicted device capacity \(Gb for three technologies Year 2015 2018 2021 2025 Technology CRAM 0.032 0.064 0.064 0.128 NROM 4 8 16 32 Flash 64 128 256 512  In this particular case, the year 2025 is selected as the freeze date and appropriate device capacity is used.  The ITRS is predicting that by the year 20 25, CRAM-based devices will have a capacity of 128 Mbit per die; NROM will have 32 Gb per die. Flash will be available at 512 Gb per die [9 Table  5 highlights the number of die necessary of three discussed technologies to achi eve a recorder of specified capacity in the timeframe given Table 5 - Minimum Device Count by Technology to achieve a Data Recorder of Specified Capacity in the Year shown.  \(Example, a 30 Tb recorder being designed in the year 2020 would require 468,750 CRAM devices or 1,875 NROM devices, or 118 Flash devices  Therefore, a 130 Tb data recorder designed using devices predicted available in the year 2030, would require the following number of devices \226 not including any additional devices used for Error Detection and Correction \(EDAC\ or sparing and word control 200  CRAM: > 1 million devices Year Recorder Capacity CRAM 4Mb NROM 1Gb Flash 16Gb 720,000 2,880 180 64Mb 16Gb 256Gb 468,750 1,875 118 128Mb 32Gb 512Gb 1.02E+06 4,063 254 Required Not Reqiured Required EDAC Technology / Device Capacity /Chip Count 2010 2020 2030 2.88 Tb 30 Tb 130 Tb 


 12  200  NROM: approx 4060 devices 200  Flash: approx 256 devices By examination, it can be easily seen that developing a high capacity data recorder as pr oposed using CRAM technology is impractical Error Detection and Correction Codes  All technologies are subject to lo ss of information, be they the loss of a single bit or the loss of an entire chip, the inclusion of Error Detection and Correction is an appropriate action by any system designer Just by using EDAC, there is an associated bit-penalty ranging from a few percentile to over 25 per cent   The exact selection of most-appropriat e Error Correction codes is highly dependent upon error phenomena not only for each  rt ain aspects of the exact part being considered as well as the environment to be encountered [2  25  F o r t h e reco rde r  de scri be d bel o w a Reed-Solomon code was selected.  It is important to note that this may not be the prime candidate, but was chosen for known characteristics Selection of a more appropri ate EDAC code [2 w oul d  most assuredly, bring about a reduction in recorder mass and power One final, important, distinction between the two prime technologies is required The NROM devices analyzed for this paper have built-in an incredibly powerful error detection and correction machine, capable of detecting four bits in error in a single word, and correcting three bits per word [10  W i t h th is m e th od t h e Bit Error Rate is calculated by the manufacturer to be less than 1.18E 19  errors/bit-day \226 equivalent to 3 unrecoverable bit errors every 550 years for the entire recorder; therefore, the package numbers presented here do not include extra devices required for EDAC other than that provided by the chip itself Table 6 - HC-SSR Basic Features 200  Redundant SpaceWire interfaces 200  Redundant Power Converters 200  Redundant Controllers/Supervisors 200  Multi-plane Non-volatile storage 200  Error detection and correction 200  Device isolation to the EDAC Word  Figure 18 - HC-SSR Conceptual Block Diagram 


 13  7  H IGH C APACITY SSR  D ESCRIPTION  Block Diagram  A block diagram of a recorder meeting all requirements listed in Table 6 is shown as Figure 18.  The recorder features cross-coupled SpaceWire interfaces as well as redundancy down to the memory plane Cross-coupled controllers w ith shared memory ensure operation without the need to re-build memory allocation tables should a fault occur Recorder Summary  Using conservative packaging techniques, two recorder designs were developed: one using Flash memory and the other using NROM.  A summary of their characteristics is provided in the tables below.  A more detailed discussion of design and implementation follows Board Design  Figure 19 - One side of 8Tb Memory Slice using NROM Technology The NROM-based solution is presented as Figure 19.  In the figure, nearly two hundred 2-Gbit NROM devices are installed on each face of the 9U card.  \(The whitespace is preserved in this example for passive components and design margin.\e time of this writing, the availability of chip-stacked NROM devices was uncertain and omitted from the trade space Design of a Flash-based memory card would be of similar ilk.  Device density would permit the use of a 6U card Compare the number of devices required for each design as given in Tables 7 and 8 Table 7 - NROM-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 9U  Approx 40 x 33 x 30 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  14 ea Size, 9U 6  Approx 40 x 33 x 30 cm \(h, w, d Mass  10 kg 7  Power  30 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel Space Wire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(Sparing extra Devices  4060 32 Gb die    6 IEEE 1101.1-1998 7 Assumes worst case devices are operable to expected regime without shielding 


 14  Table 8 - Flash-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 6U  Approx 28 x12.7 x 25 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  4 ea Mass  3.5 kg  Power  6 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel SpaceWire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(EDAC Sparing extra Devices  254 512 Gb \(not incl EDAC  Controller Board  Figure 20 - Controller Card Layout \(Violet = Shared Memory  Figure 20 shows one of many possible methods of design for an IO controller slice.  The IO controller slice provides redundant SpaceWire interfaces and redundant interfaces to the backplane.  Alt hough there are two controllers shown there is, in this concept, a single set of Shared Memory which is common between both controllers One of the main functions of the active controller is to build and maintain a directory of memory sector-to-physical address translation tables.  Having the table stored in Shared Memory assures timely restart of the recorder function should it become necessary to activate and swap to the alternate controller Interfaces  The Data Recorder interfa ces with the Command Data Handling \(CDH\ubsystem via the standard SpaceWire interface 8 Utilizing conservative design techniques, a sustained Write speed of at least 200 Mbps into memory is guaranteed.   The recorder is capable of supporting simultaneous Writing and Reading of data subject to usual certain timing restrictions imposed by the memory devices themselves Standard 28 Volt bus power is applied to the SSR which features two power convert er units for redundancy Redundancy & Fault Tolerance The execution of good systems engineering practice is recommended and will, most likely result in a physical  enlargement of the SSR in one dimension.  This may consist of addition of spare memory to each memory slice, or the addition of one or more spare memory slices to the entire design With respect to Fault Tolerance, aside from the use of redundant interfaces and contro llers, described above, the HC-SSR is designed such that individual blocks of words as determined by EDAC boundaries can be tagged as Do Not Use.  An example of an EDAC word with embedded control bits is included as Figure 21  Figure 21 - EDAC Word Bit-Level Assignments File System The HC-SSR contains built in File Management system supervised by Interface/Controlle r ASICs.  File storage is compatible with the CCSDS File Delivery Protocol \(CFDP thereby reducing the need for processing and packetizing data externally   8 ESA Standard ECSS-E-50-12A 96 bits 26 -->||<-- 6 EDAC Ctl/Hdr/ID Data 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobs, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathmatiques Appliques de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


