  CONSUMER INFORMEDNESS AND HYPERDIFFERENTIATION AN EMPIRICAL TEST OF THE TRADING DOWN AND TRADING OUT HYPOTHESES   Robert J. Kauffman                                                 Ting Li, Eric van Heck, Peter Vervest W. P. Carey School of Business, Arizona State Univ.          Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus Univ Tempe, AZ 85251 USA Rotterdam, The Netherlands rkauffman@asu.edu tli@rsm.nl evanheck@rsm.nl pvervest@rsm.nl  __________________________________________________________________________________________________  Abstract Consumer informedness plays a critical role in 
determining consumer choice. Companies now use hyperdifferentiation and resonance marketing strategies to benefit from the long-tail. We test the theory of consumer informedness in a field experiment. The data are from two stated choice experiments in the pubic transport industry in the Netherlands The increasing implementation of smart card and mobile technology provides opportunities for service providers to achieve new best practices in revenue management. The results provide evidence for trading down purchase the product with the lowest price\ and trading out behavior \(purchase the product 
that suits a specific need\ They also have implications for pricing and revenue management for public transport market  Keywords Consumer informedness, hyperdifferentiation resonance marketing, revenue management, smart cards, stated choice experiment, technology strategy, transport market ______________________________________________  1. INTRODUCTION The impact of increased in formation availability is considered by the theory of consumer informedness and the practices associated with resonance marketing. These have been used to explain the behavior of well-informed consumers and the strategies that firms should follow in order to sell to them most effectively. Clemons et al. [7 p. 150 i n e  
hyperdifferentiation as the situation where firms can produce almost anything that appeals to consumers and they can manage the complexity of the increasingly diverse product portfolios that result  Resonance marketing is the strategy of developing products that produce the strongest favorable responses among targeted segments of the consumer population. Firms can sell a vast variety of products according to consumers  heterogeneous needs, and consumers react to products that precisely meet their needs and desires Consumer informedness refers to the degree to which consumers know what products are available in the marketplace, with precisely which attributes and at precisely what prices It is c o n s idered as th e k e y driv e r of res o  
nance marketing beco m e s i m portan t in deter m i ning consumers willingness-to-pay. Nowadays, consumers are increasingly informed of firms product offerings Their willingness-to-pay increases when there is a fit between consumer preferences and product attributes. Informed consumers will pay more for what they truly want, and stop buying products with which they are dissatisfied. As opposed to the traditional way of designing a product that targets the mass market and attracts the largest number of consumers, today firms are actively searching for strategies to provide more choices to consumers. This way, they can exploit consumers willingness-to-pay, and design and differentiate products that 
are suitable for much smaller groups of consumers, all the way to the individual level Clemons and Gao [6 sugge st tha t   w i t h c o ns u m e r i n formedness, consumer purchase behavior can be characterized as trading down and trading out Trading down  means that the consumer wants to buy something because it is the best discount offering, or it offers the best price among adequate alternatives that can minimize disappointment Trading out in contrast, means that a consumer is looking for the product or service that offers the best fit, irrespective of price. Using the theory of consumer informedness, our objective is to examine how firms leverage consumers fully-expressed demand preferences, explore their product attribute space, and design 
product and service offerings to capture profitable responses among the targeted segments of consumers The past decade has witnessed an increased application of revenue management, and the use of quantitative analysis techniques such as consumer segmentation and pricing optimization to deal with capacity allocation and demand management. The successes of firms such as American Airlines and National Car Rental have encouraged scholars d practi tion e rs 20] to ex plore t h e possible benefits from revenue management. Their success can be attributed to increased availability of consumer information e e a s e of ch a n g i n g prices d u e to the new technolog d th e av ailabilit y o f effective tools and methods for analyzing demand data for 
price changes Even though the role and value of information in revenue management has been acknowledged [13, 22  i t  has received little empirical attention. This paper examines the use of innovative ITs for revenue management in the public transport industry in the Netherlands. IT investments there reflect the recent pervasive adoption of smart card and mobile technology around the worl These technologies allow service providers to capture more information on consumer travel behavior and to be more informed. The new information includes the location to and from which they travel, what time they travel Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


  how frequently they travel, etc. Our research questions are: \(1\ What theoretical basis can aid us in understanding the impact of consumer informedness? \(2\ can smart card and mobile technology be leveraged to make hyperdifferentiation more effective? \(3\ can we characterize the consumer response toward revenue management in IT-enabled business contexts We use an innovative method a stated choice experiment   and test for trading down and trading out behavior for two types of products with 1,000-plus consumers in a European public transport market. Consistent with the theory in ou r f i eld ex perim e n t s tran s port service consumers are fully informed of the different product offerings consisting of product attributes and associated levels they can select. They decide what they want, evaluate their choice well, and decide to pay what they think the service is truly worth. We demonstrate that the use of mobile ticketing technologies enabled by smart cards and mobile phones help service providers to build a hyperdifferentiated public transport market, and generate performance gains resulting in higher social welfare In §2, we introduce our main theoretical perspective Then, in §3 we describe our research context and develop our hypotheses. §4 introduces our research methodology. In §5 we specify a choice model and discuss our empirical findings. We discuss our primary findings in §6 and conclude with contributions and limitations 2. THEORY The theory and modeling ideas for this research involve consumer informedness primarily, and also hyperdifferentiation, revenue management, and choice theory 2.1. Hyperdifferentiation and Resonance Marketing Hyperdifferentiation  Hyperdifferentiation is differentiation almost without limit. Hyperdifferentiated products can be as diverse as the needs and desires of the consumers who buy them. It reflects an organization s ability through IT to produce almost anything for a market it thinks might a m ple, hy perdiff e rentiation by a food and beverage retailer involves the choices it makes to alter the flavors in its food and beverage products. Other hyperdifferentiating actions in marketing include colors and styles, or options packages in consumer durables. Some firms may vary parameter settings in software that supports services, for a unique level of service to a customer. This approach involves implementing new ways to develop, market, and sell anything the firm chooses to offer to consumers who express heterogeneous demand preferences W ith  hy perdifferentiation, price is no longer the principal determinant when consumers choose among alternative products and services Hyperdifferentiation is enabled by information which can generate unprecedented profitability for the firm. The products affected range from physical products e.g., book purchases via Amazon.com, to services from P2P lending networks \(e.g www.prosper.com ino gaming, hotel stays and airline reservations www.priceline.com  www.farecast.com For example, in the craft beer industry, consumers can obtain reviews on thousands of beers by using sites such as Ratebeer www  ratebeer.com his way, consumers are better informed about the taste and quality of a product. Clemons report the top quartile reviews are predictors of success for a launch of a new beer with a premium price. It predicts the maximum a consumer is willing to pay Resonance Marketing Resonance marketing requires an understanding of the demand side. It emphasizes what the firm knows about what each consumer segment wants to buy and is willing to pay. It can identify un-served and under-served consumer segments. The essence of resonance marketing is harnessing and guiding the supply side of hyperdifferentiation l t h o u gh firms can produce anything, they typically find it most beneficial to produce exactly what their customers want to buy. For example, Air Canada has recently shifted to a simplified fare structure with branded products including Tango and Tango Plus. Each branded product has unique characteristics that are essentially soft qualifiers that allow customers to self-select themselves into the targeted segmentation. For example, with Tango Plus the newly launched low-fare pricing option, customers can purchase flights in the form of multi-trip passes, in ten or twenty one-trip increments. Prices start at CAN$189 each-way and are valid for travel anywhere within the route network of Air Canada, Jazz, or their regional partners Tango Plus sales increased by 39% in 3Q 2007 and 34% in 4Q 2007 over 2006, an indication of the efficacy of the approach Firms are engaging in hyperdifferentiation and resonance marketing strategies for a variety of reasons. \(1 Complexity penalties are lower and firms now can hyperdifferentiate their products and services in ways that were never possible without IT. They also can communicate with the market easily, and emphasize the value propositions that enable customer retention. \(2 Competition discounts are greater, with the number of competing firms in the market. This helps them to maintain their market shares. With more information available to consumers, firms are able to increase the effectiveness of their competition discounts. \(3 Compromise discounts occur when consumers purchase a product that is different from what they would ideally like to purchase, and these are now greater too. When consumers become more aware of what is available, compromise discounts tend to go up. This prompts the firm to differentiate its products. \(4\ When consumers do not have full information about a product s attributes due to information asymmetries, the products will sell with uncertainty disProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  counts to consumers. Increased consumer information reduces the uncertainty discount, so the benefits of differentiation increase 2.2. Consumer Informedness and Purchase Behavior Consumer informedness is viewed as the critical driver for the success of resonance marketing. More information will reduce consumer uncertainty about a product, and thus a consumer will be willing to pay more for what she wants. The upshot is that the consumer will experience a sense of delight in the presence of the increased information that encourages them to make purchases. Clemons and Gao [6, p u e th at th i s approach comes close to near-elimination of all aspects of uncertainty, allowing latent differences in preferences to become manifest in consumers preferences for less common products, and allowing these preferences to manifest themselves in terms of what these consumers buy and what they are willing to pay  When firms hyperdifferentiate, consumers exhibit two kinds of purchasing behaviors different from traditional consumer behavior observed under the mass market strategies that have been applied by most firms in the last twenty years. They are trading down and trading out 6 Trading Down With trading down consumers choose products that have not only the lowest price, but also the ones that are unlikely to disappoint them or create unnecessary uncertainty. In the case of airline travel for example, these are the consumers who purchase the super-discount or last-minute tickets offered by the airlines. These consumers have a low willingness-to-pay They also may have a threshold that defines how much of a trade-off they make for other product attributes Trading Out With trading out   consumers look for products that give the best fit. The fit between a consumer s needs and the attributes of a product is critical This group is interested in other attributes of a product than price \(e.g., convenience\ instance, business travelers will pay more for a non-stop flight with a short travel time. And in the public transport industry, if railway service providers can provide services that permit true origin pickup and true destination delivery this will be attractive to consumers when they make purchases 2.3. Revenue Management Revenue management deals with selling the right product to the right consumer at the right time for the right price to maximize firm revenue. Not all firms are able to employ revenue management strategies in their businesses. The ones where such strategies are possible have these characteristics: \(1\ the demand side, the more heterogeneity of consumer preferences, the more potential there will be for a firm to exploit this heterogeneity to improve revenu m a n d  s h o u ld exh i bit  some kind of informational complexity like variations due to weather, or changing patterns on holidays, or day of the week. \(2\ the supply side, a firm should operate with relatively fixed and inflexible capacity and production constraints, and it may not be able to cope with variations in demand. Also, products and services it offers should be perishable \(e.g., rental cars, hotel rooms and cannot be held in inventory beyond a certain time. \(3 In addition, firms should have relatively high costs but low marginal costs of production. \(4\irm should have the capability to capture abundant consumer data via IT Advanced infrastructure is needed to collect and store demand data and automate pricing decisions. This applies to firms as well as industries as a collection of firms with similar characteristics 2.4. Choice Theory People make purchase decisions based on many criteria simultaneously. Thus, it is challenging to understand consumer choice under complex market conditions. We have identified the appropriateness of a discrete choice model to study consumer choice. This area of modeling and theory in marketing and economics has developed rapidly during the past e es peciall y to th e  research innovations of economist and Nobel Laureate Daniel McFadden Discrete choice models represent random utilitybased choices, a perspective that originated in economics Random utility models have several bases. \(1 Choice behavior is systematically related to the attributes of the considered alternatives. \(2\or each attribute of an alternative, individuals assign or attach a psychological weight as a means of expressing their perception. These perceptions, according to random utility models, are connected systematically with measurable values of the corresponding attributes. \(3\dividuals then aggregate the weights of the individual attributes to create an overall evaluation of a given alternative. \(4\ This valuation is made up of a systematic utility component based on the observable aspects and a non-observable random utility component based on the unobservable aspects. A consumer will reliably select the most advantageous alternative, and so can be viewed as a utility maximizer  Choice theory suggests three steps to follow to understand consumers preferences in an experimental field study setting. First, we need to understand the range of possible choices that may be observed. Second, we need to design an experiment and ask respondents to select one of the available alternative options. Third, we need to employ statistical or econometric modeling methods to identify the key patterns present in the data [3, 14 3. CONTEXT AND HYPOTHESES We next discuss our research setting and develop the hypotheses that we will examine in this research    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


  3.1. Research Context Public transport plays an essential role in most economies. With mobile ticketing enabled by smart cards and mobile phones, service providers are learning their consumers travel behavior with more precision. This permits the adjustment of services and prices to support improved operations and higher revenues. Not only does revenue management become possible for service providers, but also it is possible for them to implement hyperdifferentiation and resonance marketing approaches We chose the new high-speed train service launched in 2009 between Amsterdam, Netherlands and Paris France for an empirical test of two theory-based hypotheses on consumer informedness for four reasons. \(1 The railway industry is a pioneer in differential pricing and has used price discrimination since the 1800s 1 2 Trans Link Systems \(TLS www.translink.nl ers seamless ticketing and fare collection solutions for the public transport system throughout the Netherlands 2 Using smart card technology, this contactless ticketing infrastructure covers trains, metro, trams, and buses, providing travelers with convenience and satisfaction. \(3 Primary service providers face high costs of delivering appropriate infrastructure and services \(e.g., Internet SMS, mobile, platform terminal\while competing with other modes of transportation, to gain market share. Service providers also actively engage in revenue management initiatives. \(4\he firm has a need to develop a travel product portfolio, and a variety of service packages for consumers, to derive sustainable advantage 3.2. Hypotheses Travelers are different. Their heterogeneity comes from their travel frequency, distance, origin-destination city-pair, number of interchanges, and payment ownership. Travel purpose is a driver of purchase behavior in most transportation industries. Commuters, business travelers, and leisure travelers are common market segments. Service providers design differentiated travel products to target them. Travel purpose cannot be captured by service providers without asking consumers   1  The 19th-century French economist Emile Dupuit had this to say about the early railways It is not because of the few thousand francs which would have to be spent to put a roof over the third-class carriage What the company is trying to do is prevent the passengers who can pay the second-class fare from traveling third class; it hits the poor, not because it wants to hurt them, but to frighten the rich Having refused the poor what is necessary, they give the rich what is superfluous Dupuit [11 qu ote d  i n  Ek e l u nd [12  p 2 7 5   2 TLS was established in 2002 by Connexxion, GVB \(Amsterdam\, HTM \(The Hague\ the NS \(Dutch Railway Company\nd the RET \(Rotterdam\They pr ov ide 8 0   of pu blic  transport services in the Netherlands and l s o w o r k i n  partnership with the remaining public transport companies united in the trade association MOBIS 23   Instead travel frequency a near proxy for travel purpose can be easily obtained by using mobile ticketing Thus, we chose to use travel frequency to characterize heterogeneous consumer demand. Consumers who travel with different frequencies will exhibit different purchase behaviors for different travel products. We distinguish among consumers who are high, medium and low-frequency travelers. Medium and low-frequency travelers are usually leisure travelers who mostly pay for the trips themselves, and thus are price-sensitive. Highfrequency travelers are mostly commuters or business travelers, who receive travel reimbursements from their employers or tax benefits. They are less price-sensitive and seek the product that provides the best fit with their preferences. We propose the following two hypotheses  Hypothesis 1 \(The Trading Down Hypothesis  Low and medium-frequency travelers will exhibit stronger preferences in choosing the cheapest products evidence of trading down behavior   Hypothesis 2 \(The Trading Out Hypothesis High-frequency travelers will exhibit stronger preferences in choosing products that best fit their preferences rather than relying on price evidence of trading out behavior  4. METHODOLOGY We next explain why a stated choice experiment is adequate to test the theory and how we conducted it 4.1. The Stated Choice Experiment Approach When faced with a product choice, consumers are likely to use features they are familiar with and will consider new features in their choices as long as they are made available and presented clearly We n eed to  use a research method that allows us to \(1\ present products and services that are unavailable at the time of the study; \(2\lly inform consumers with potential product offerings identified from firms product attribute space and \(3\ assess the relative benefits that consumers attach to various attributes of the products. We have selected a stated choice experiment approach to collect data and test theory A stated choice experiment presents hypothetical choice situations to decision-makers and asks them to state their preferences between different alternatives. It involves a careful design of multiple experimental attributes and levels of each attribut T h is  m e t h od is  based on the premise that any product or service can be described by its characteristics or attributes. It also emphasizes the idea that a decision-maker values or expresses utility which depends upon the nature and levels of these characteristics. Stated choice experiments have been used in a wide spectrum of industries such as marketing, transportation, and health economics. The experimental design permits the representation of the decision-makers choices as a function of the attributes of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


  each alternative, personal characteristics, and unobserved effects captured by random components 4.2. Experimental Procedure Step 1: Identification of Product Attributes and Levels We interviewed senior executives, reviewed relevant academic and practitioner literature, and examined service offerings to select product attributes and levels The product attributes that we found to be of interest include: travel mode, price, travel time, the time window for travel, the percentage of refund options, and the availability of a reserved seat. See Table 1 Table 1. Stated Choice Attributes and Levels A TTRIBUTE  D EFINITION  L EVELS  Travel Mode Mode of travel 1: New service 2: Current service Price Trip price \(by current / new service 1: High price 2: Medium price 3: Low price Travel Time Amount of in-vehicle travel time 1: Short travel time 2: Medium travel time 3: Long travel time Time Window Validity of travel times 1: Valid all day 2: Invalid am peak 3: Invalid am/pm peaks Refund refund if consumer cancels prepaid trip 1: High % refund 2: Med. % refund 3: Low % refund Reservation By SMS, mobile, at platform, online Yes No Note The attributes are disguised to protect private information Step 2: Design of Experiment Once we finalized the attributes and their levels for each experiment, we specified the number of choice sets and alternatives in each choice set using a fractional factorial design 18  n  efficient choice design was used to fill the choice sets, which gives higher efficiency in parameter estimates.  A full factorial design involves 162 choice sets 3 3 3 3 2\ See Table 2 Table 2. Choice Set in Our Stated Choice Experiment T RAVEL P RODUCT A TTRIBUTES  T RAVELING FROM A MSTERDAM TO R OTTERDAM  Choice Set 5 Out of 15 Sets Choice 1                Choice 2               Choice 3 Travel Mode High-Speed Train High-Speed Train Current Price 4 higher price 17 higher price Current Travel Time 24 minutes faster 30 minutes faster Current TimeWindow Valid all day 9am-4pm, 6pm on NA Refund 50% refund 90% refund NA Reservation No Yes NA Note When the consumer is presented with the above alternatives, one alternative must be chosen from among them. Choice Set 5 is an example To capture consumers purchase behaviors, we designed two related public transport products and conducted two experiments. The products are: \(1 general pricing designed for medium and low-frequency transport services consumers; and \(2 subscription pricing  designed to benefit high-frequency travelers, who travel more than three times a week. They find it troublesome to purchase a ticket that is only valid for one day. They may want a monthly pass for convenience. A refund option is not available for the subscription product Step 3: Presentation of Experiment We designed an interactive computer-aided survey questionnaire to collect data. It has four main parts: screening questions for selecting the relevant respondents; questions on the respondents travel behavior; the stated choice experiments involving two products; and consumer demographics, including age, gender, education, household composition, car ownership, and employment status The experiment is real because we asked consumers to evaluate a specific trip that they most frequently travels between an origin-destination city-pair, with a specific travel product either her current choice or a new product. It is dynamic because, based on consumers answers about their current travel behavior, we designed individual experiments with origin-destination city-pairs actual prices and actual travel times. In Table 2, the citypair Amsterdam-Rotterdam is given by this consumer as the most frequently traveled origin-destination. We then calculated price and travel time, and presented these in a choice set to this particular consumer We pre-tested the questionnaire with twenty randomly selected employees in the public transport company and 100 consumers to evaluate the effectiveness of our questionnaire. Average task completion time for respondents was thirty minutes. They did not indicate difficulties with the tasks. Discussions resolved any issues 4.3. Respondent Selection and Data Collection  We used an Internet panel from a leading marketing research firm to collect data one of the largest in the Netherlands. Members received a standard reward  clix that can be converted to money\ for participating in the research. This has the advantage that respondents were experienced and can handle complicated preference surveys. Respondents are likely to be motivated by the pay they receive for responding. In addition, the Internet panel respondents are reliable; members who fill in suspicious questionnaires are periodically removed. During data collection, each respondent received an email from the marketing research firm with an invitation to join the project. After the respondent entered the secure website they were presented with a description of the future highspeed services, and information on smart card ticketing and reservation systems implementation. After reading the core concept, each respondent was asked to respond to twelve or fifteen different choice sets similar to the one shown in Table 2, depending on their current travel frequency. The respondents were asked to choose among one of the three presented travel products, including the one they now use. Data collection occurred from November 15 to December 6, 2007. Screening respondents Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


  and cleaning the data yielded 1,313 valid responses 3  We used three main criteria to select respondents First, we only invited respondents who considered using the High-Speed Train for all or part of the trips they were making at the time of the survey. Second, we selected only those respondents who lived within the relevant catchment area. We operationalized a catchment area as the postal code areas where consumers are apt to have travel time gains when they choose to travel by highspeed train, compared to continuing to use their current mode of travel. Third, the respondents are either train users or car drivers. We excluded travelers who traveled by air, since the comparative costs are prohibitive, and do not reflect meaningful comparisons for most people 5. EMPIRICAL RESULTS We next discuss our analysis and results  5.1. Model Specification Since product choice is a discrete individual decision we use a discrete choice model to explain individual choice behavior. We assume that consumer i will choose a travel product j for her new travel option only if this option maximizes her utility. Since we cannot directly observe the utility that each product delivers to each consumer, we assume that a consumer s utility for a travel product is a function of the observable product characteristics of that product. The utility of consumer i selecting travel product j can be written as U ij  X ij  ij where X ij is a vector of observable product attributes of product j  i is a vector of estimated coefficients, and ij is an error term for utility differences resulting from all of the unobservable factors. Consumer i will select product j if and only if U ij  U im   j   m for another product m  Each alternative product consists of a set of attributes that may explain consumer choices in the hypothetical choice context. These include travel mode  TM  price   P  travel time  TT  time window  TW after-sales option to obtain a partial refund  REF d reservation   RES Thus, the utility can be expressed with the functional form U ij  f  X TM  X P  X TT  X TW  X RES  X REF  To take into account product alternative-specific variables X ij and consumer-specific variables Z i such as an individual s origin-destination, travel frequency travel distance, and demographical information, we use a   3  Six percent of sample respondents were from 18 to 24 years 32% from 25 to 39, 37% from 40 to 59, and 25% older than 60 They were 52% male, 42% with two persons in the household and 77% having a driver s license. 41% of respondents attended high school or college, and 12% held degrees \(bachelor s, master s or Ph.D.\52% of respondents earned less than 50,000, 19% earned 50,000 to 100,000, and 2% earned above 100,000. 28% chose not to answer. 70% were car drivers and 30% train users. 10% traveled with high frequency 71% with medium frequency, and 19% with low frequency multinomial logit \(MNL\model [2, 10  4 Its functional form is given by  1 exp  Pr  1 exp  iij ji ij J iij ji j XZ Y XZ  where i indicates the separable effect of a product alternative-specific variable on the probability of a consumer choosing one product over another. The j coefficients capture the effects of product j relative to the base product 5.2. Effects Coding and Model Estimation We implemented effects coding to create new variables for different attribute levels, so that the non-linear effects of the attribute levels can be measured 5  We keyed off the lowest attribute level for each variable to accurately estimate the relative impact on respondents  choices. This removed any confounding of the base attribute level with the mean of the consumer s utility function ti m a ted ou r MN L  m odel s us i n g maximum likelihood estimation 2 Some observations are independent across the individuals but not always independent within the individuals. We used robust standard errors for model estimation A positive estimated value, or main effect for an attribute, means the probability of selecting the travel product will increase if this attribute is increased from the lowest level to this level 6 The probability of selecting the new travel product increases when price is reduced high to low el time is reduced long to short ticket validity   4  Hensher and Greene [15, p. 2 n o te tha t  regardless of what is said about advanced discrete choice models, the MNL model should always be the starting point for empirical investigation It remains a major input into the modeling process, helping to ensure that the data are clean and that sensible results can be obtained from models that are not cluttered with complex relationships Another alternative is a mixed logit model 3   which incorporates characteristics of individual consumers and products they can select among. It does so in a way that permits the analyst to deal with situations where error terms associated with different choices are correlated \(unlike MNL models which assume independently and identically distributed errors We are working with multiple modeling approaches to see which yields the most robust and managerially informative results for our context  5  We varied Price  Travel Time  Time Window and the aftersales Refund option at three levels; so two degrees of freedom and two variables are necessary. We coded for the lowest level with -1 and the other two higher levels with +1. The estimated parameters for the two variables show relative impacts of changing from the lowest to one of the higher levels. For attributes that only have two levels Travel Mode and Reservation we coded just for the lower and higher levels. See Hensher et al f o r a si m i l a r t r eat m en t    6  For the two-level attributes, the utility for the lowest level is For attributes with three levels, the relative utility of the third level is the negative of the sum of the other two values Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  is longer 9am-4pm and 6pm on to entire day und is increased low to high d reserved seats are available  no to yes  5.3. Evidence for Trading Down  Our estimation results are shown in Table 3 7, 8   Table 3. MNL Model Results in General Pricing A TTRIBUTE  V ARIABLES  C OEFF  M AIN E FFECT  Travel Mode  High-Speed Train Current mode 0.848   0.848 0.848 Price   High Medium Low 0.572   0.093   0.665 0.665 Travel Time   Short Medium Long 0.116   0.023 0.139 0.139 Time Window All day After 9am 9am-4pm, 6pm on 0.250   0.073   0.177 0.177 Refund   High Medium Low 0.323   0.065   0.388 0.388 Reservation   Reserved seat None 0.213   0.213 0.213 Notes 41,940 obs., log-likelihood = -24,756.87  McFadden R 2 or pseudoR 2 0.148. Signif  p 0.01 The parameters represent the part-worth utility for each attribute level. We use Travel Mode to capture all unobserved attributes associated with the mode choice This is the choice between consumers current \(car or train\d future mode \(High-Speed Train\This provides an assessment of switching inertia A negative coefficient means that the current mode was chosen more often than the future mode alternatives. Besides this inertia, the main effect of attribute Price is the highest  0.665 p 0.001\. Also, the combined main effects of the after-sales Refund option   0.388 p 0.001\d   7  As the first step of stated choice modeling analysis, we present the baseline model for trading down and trading out. A pseudoR 2 of 0.148 p 0.001\, and Hosmer and Lemeshow's goodness-of-fit test  p 0.001\indicate our model fits well Except for Medium Travel Time the other variables are significant p 01\ Correlations for the va riables were all less than 40, except High Validity and Medium Validity at 0.748. All variance inflation factors \(VIF\alues are below 10, so multicollinearity is not an issue [17  A c c o rding to He ns he r e t a l   16  m u ltic olli ne a r ity is not a  pro ble m  f o r f u ll orthog o n a l designed stated choice experiment data, because the columns are independent from one another  8  There were 1,313 responses: 932 medium and low-frequency travelers, and 381 high-frequency travelers. In the general pricing experiment, each respondent was presented with 15 choice sets, and each set had 3 alternatives. Each alternative had one observation, being chosen or not chosen. This yielded 932·15·3 41,940 observations. In the subscription pricing experiment 12 choice sets were used, with 381·12·3 = 13,716 observations  Reservation  0.213 p 0.001\re almost equal to the effect of Price This means some combination of the two services may be sufficient to overcome any price barriers. The effect of Travel Time  0.139 p 0.001 is the lowest among all attributes. So any speed gain compared to the planned high-speed service will not attract more consumers compared to the changes in other product attributes. Note that our baseline travel time is the standard High-Speed Train service These results show that the attribute Price is the most important product attribute among all of the ones that we explored. Because our general pricing experiment is conducted for medium and low-frequency consumers this suggests that these consumers value price the most They are most likely to replace their current purchase with an alternative product that has lower quality \(shorter validity or no reserved seat\ut is less expensive. This provides evidence of trading down behavior. So our Trading Down Hypothesis \(H1\s supported  5.4. Evidence for Trading Out Next, we look at the subscription pricing experiment results in Table 4 9 Similar to general pricing, we calculated the main effects of each attribute and used Travel Mode to represent consumer switching inertia. There is a higher switching inertia for high-frequency consumers compared to the medium and low-frequency consumers The results also suggest that consumers who travel frequently place a much higher value on Time Window  which is the time validity of the monthly subscription product, compared to the medium and low-frequency travelers. In particular, we find that the level variables for part-worth utility for Time Window  valid all day   0.825 p 0.001\ have the highest impact. The magnitude of impact is even bigger than the Price attribute levels 0.524 p 0.001\. This result is logical: most high-frequency consumers are commuters, or business travelers who have much tighter schedules compared to the lower-frequency travelers, who are mostly leisure travelers. These high-frequency travelers prefer to purchase a travel product that is valid all day. They will pay much more to have such a product so that they do not need to worry about peak and off-peak ticket validity This result is preliminary, but nevertheless indicates that high-frequency consumers have a stronger preference for choosing a travel product that best suits their needs. This provides the evidence of trading out behavior, and thus our Trading Out Hypothesis \(H2\s also supported. See   9  The pseudoR 2 of 0.211 p 0.001\ and Hosmer and Lemeshow's goodness-of-fit test  p 0.001\ indicate that the subscription pricing model fits well. Except for Medium Travel Time and Medium Price the other variables were significant at the p 01 level. We noted a relatively high correlation at 0.64 between High Validity and Medium Validity Otherwise, multicollinearity is not a problem based on the VIF diagnostics  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


  Table 5 for a summary Table 4. MNL Model Results in Subscription Pricing A TTRIBUTE  V ARIABLES  C OEFF  M AIN E FFECT  Travel Mode  High-Speed Train Current mode 1.095  1.095 1.095 Price   High Medium Low 0.524   0.013 0.537 0.537 Travel Time   Short Medium Long 0.035   0.074 0.109 0.109 Time Window   All day After 9am 9am-4pm, 6pm on 0.825   0.499   0.326 0.326 Reservation   Reserved seat None 0.126   0.126 0.126 Notes 13,716 obs., log-likelihood ratio = -7,498.89  McFadden R 2  or pseudoR 2 1%. Signif  p 0.01 Table 5. Hypotheses and Findings  H YPOTHESES  R ESULTS  Hypothesis 1 \(The Trading Down Hypothesis  Low and medium-frequency travelers will exhibit stronger preferences in choosing the cheapest products evidence of trading down behavior  Supported Hypothesis 2 \(The Trading Out Hypothesis High-frequency travelers will exhibit stronger preferences in choosing products that best fit their preferences rather than relying on price  evidence of trading out behavior  Supported 6. FURTHER ANALYSIS We now consider issues of consumer segments switching inertia, and customer profitability gradients to further enrich our understanding of hyperdifferentiation s impact on consumer choice and firm profitability Consumer Segment Models So far, we have used data from all our respondents to estimate our MNL models for two product experiments. Next, we use three segmentation criteria based on journey characteristics, and develop consumer segment models. These criteria are travel frequency, origin-destinations city-pairs, and the traveler s current main mode of transport. Consistent with the public transport service provider s practices, we categorize travel frequency into three levels: low, medium, and high-frequency. These are the same criteria we used for the two product experiments that we discussed so far. High-frequency travelers travel more than three times a week. Medium-frequency travelers travel less than three times each week but more than three times a year. Low-frequency travelers travel even less. The second segmentation criterion is origin-destination citypairs We consider three major origin-destinations  Amsterdam/Schiphol-Rotterdam \(AS-R\, Amsterdam Schiphol-Breda \(AS-B\otterdam-Breda \(R-B which are served by High-Speed Trains operating in the catchment area. The third segmentation criterion is the current travel mode being car or train. Figure 1 shows the relative effects for the segment model attributes. Due to space limits, we only show results for the general pricing experiment; subscription pricing gives similar results Figure 1. Main Effects of Attributes in Segments   Each horizontal bar is scaled to 100%, to compare relative weights of attributes across different segments The main effects of the attributes are quite different across segments, as the results suggest. We see that the relative weight for price varies considerably across segments. For example, medium-frequency travelers who currently use the train and travel between Amsterdam and Breda \(AS-B-Train-Medium\ are the most pricesensitive consumers. \(They have a relatively higher utility for price.\milarly, the users who travel by train between Rotterdam and Breda with low frequency \(R-BTrain-Low\ are most likely to purchase the service if a higher refund option is available. \(They have a relatively higher utility for the after-sales refund option.\We noted there are different levels of consumer preferences within each segment. This allows service providers to target strategically appropriate consumers, provide the most suitable product, and achieve higher profitability. So service providers will be better off serving higherfrequency travelers with a travel product valid the entire day. Why? These consumers place higher value on this product attribute compared to other attributes. These results are of interest to service providers who want to enter and compete in a hyperdifferentiated public transport market. To wit Although the firm can now make whatev w a n t s to m a k e it i s  m o s t ben e f i cial to produ ce exactly what the customer wants to buy 5, p. 8   Switching Inertia Switching inertia occurs for a number of reasons: reluctance to change, habits or preferences for the status quo satisfaction with current product offerings, the lack of real or credible alternatives, and consumer loyalty. To explore consumers reluctance to change, we compared the Travel Mode for the MNL segment models and show the results in Figure 2    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  Figure 2. Customer Switching Inertia  The inertia increases when consumers travel with low frequency, by car, and travel between Amsterdam and Breda \(A/S-R\e also see that females have higher inertia than males. The results also show that consumers in all segments need to be offered recognizable value to persuade them to consider a new alternative. The combination of the after-sales refund option, time window for the validity of the ticket, and seat reservation could overcome the segment s switching barriers. Service providers need to reach an inertia breaking point to make a business case and encourage consumers not to return to their baseline Travel Mode They also need to reveal their consumer needs-based segmentation map to move forward in developing hyperdifferentiation strategies Customer Profitability Gradient Our transport market exhibits a strong customer profitability gradient  This refers to the presence of extreme differences in profitability between the best and the worst customers in a market 8, p Serv ice prov iders can tak e adv a n tage of the customer profitability gradient identified for each of the micro-segments, along the dimensions of travel frequency, origin-destination city-pairs, and current travel mode that we discussed The differences in profitability exist because there is a difference in firms cost to serve customers In pu blic transport, providing services at peak hours \(7-9am and 4-6pm\pared to off-peak hours, is very expensive. If a great difference exists among customers in preferences for departure time, firms can identify the customer profitability gradien t and focus on serving the most profitable customers during the peak hours and offload the unprofitable ones to the off-peak hours. We analyzed customer departure time preferences and plotted them by different travel purposes in Figure 3 The results show that 51% of commuters and 41% of business travelers depart from home between 7-9am whereas 34% of business travelers and 50% of leisure travelers travel right after the peak between 9-11am. The demonstrated large customer differences in travel time provide firms with the opportunity to be profitable by reducing costs through lowering peak-load traffic while generating additional revenue  Figure 3. Departure Time Pattern by Travel Purpose   7. CONCLUSION Drawing on the theory of consumer informedness we empirically tested trading down and trading out behavior in a public transport market Consumer informedness  plays a critical role in determining consumers  willingness-to-pay With the availability of smart cards and mobile technologies, service providers will be informed of consumers individual demand preferences and, thus, can better leverage the effective use of hyperdifferentiation and resonance marketing. A customer profitability gradient allows the High-Speed Train provider to introduce efficient pricing and revenue management strategy Based on choice theory and using a stated choice experiment 10 our study provides an empirical assessment of how service providers: \(1\ explore the relevant product attribute space; \(2\ign their product offerings to capture the most profitable responses; and \(3\plement an information-based strategy to profit from the available customer profitability gradient. For managers seeking feedback on how customers view their offerings choice modeling provides a method of turning customerdriven feedback into profitable and sustainable strategies for retaining and capturing market share 25, p. 10 Consumers have different perceptions of value, so the existence of this customer profitability gradient allows firms to design new product offerings along value dimensions that are in their design range. Resonance marketing requires understanding of the demand side, so that the firm knows what each customer segment wants to buy, and how much it is willing to pay. Traditional strategies for products targeted to the mass market can be augmented through the recognition that increasingly informed consumers engage in trading down and trading out behavior. From this base, they can work toward better accommodating consumer behavior in their revenue management decision-making. Thus, firms can create a new connection between their revenue management and   10  Compared to the stated choice method, the revealed preference method deals with observed choices and works with real and objective values. Thus, it has higher external validity. A combination of both data can result in better estimation results  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  resonance marketing strategies. With consumer informedness, strategies involving resonance marketing can deemphasize prices in consumer shopping decisions and help firms to gain sustainable competitive advantage This supports the predicted move from a reliance on mass-market fat spots to a strategy based on profiting from high-margin sweet spots 5 There are limitations. First, using a mixed logit model would permit us to account for heterogeneous tastes of consumers. Second, payment ownership who actually pays for the travel product has an influence on willingness-to-pay too. Additional analysis of this issue will likely provide greater power for interpreting trading down and trading out behavior in the transport market REFERENCES 1  Air Canada. Changing the Game, 27th New York Air Finance Conference, New York, NY, April 2007 2  Ben-Akiva, M., and Lerman, S.R Discrete Choice Analysis: Theory and Application to Travel Demand Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1985 3  Ben-Akiva, M., McFadden, D., Train, K., Walker, J., Bhat C., Bierlaire, M., Bolduc, D., Boersch-Supan, A., Brownstone, D., and Bunch, D.S. Hybrid Choice Models: Progress and Challenges Mktg. Letters 13\(3\, 2002, 163-175 4  Chau, P.Y.K., and Poon, S. Octopus: An E-Cash Payment System Success Story Comm. ACM 46\(9\, 2003, 129-133 5  Clemons, E.K. How Information Changes Consumer Behavior and Consumer Behavior Determines Corporate Strategy J. Mgmt. Info. Sys 25\(2\, 2008, in press 6  Clemons, E.K., and Gao, G.G. Consumer Informedness and Diverse Consumer Purchasing Behaviors: Traditional Mass-Market, Trading Down, and Trading Out into the Long Tail Elec. Comm. Res. Appl 7\(3\2008, 3-17 7  Clemons, E.K., Gao, G.G., and Hitt, L.M. When Online Reviews Meet Hyperdifferentiation: A Study of the Craft Beer Industry J. Mgmt. Info. Sys 23\(2\ 2006, 149-171 8  Clemons, E. K., Gu, B., and Lang, K. R. Newly Vulnerable Markets in an Age of Pure Information Products: An Analysis of Online Music and News J. Mgmt. Info. Sys  19\(3\, 2002, 17-41 9  Clemons, E.K., Thatcher, M.E. Capital One Financial and a Decade of Experience with Newly Vulnerable Markets Some Propositions Concerning the Competitive Advantage of New Entrants J. Strat. Info. Sys 2008, in press 10  Cooper, L.G., and Nakanishi, M Market-Share Analysis Evaluating Competitive Marketing Effectiveness Boston MA: Kluwer, 1988 11  Dupuit, J. On Tolls and Transport Charges, 1849, in Henderson, E. \(translator International Economic Papers  London, UK: McMillan, 1962 12  Ekelund, R.B., Jr. Price Discrimination and Product Differentiation in Economic Theory: An Early Analysis Quarterly Journal of Economics 84\(2\70, 268-278 13  Elmaghraby, W., and Keskinocak, P. Dynamic Pricing in the Presence of Inventory Considerations: Research Overview, Current Practices, and Future Directions Mgmt. Sci  49\(10\, 2003, 1287-1309 14  Erdem, T., Srinivasan, K., Amaldoss, W., Bajari, P., Che H., Ho, T., Hutchinson, W., Katz, M., Keane, M., and Meyer, R. Theory-Driven Choice Models Mktg. Lett  16\(3\, 2005, 225-237 15  Hensher, D.A., and Greene, W.H. The Mixed Logit Model State of Practice Transportation 30\(2\, 2003, 133-176 16  Hensher, D.A., Rose, J.M., and Greene, W.H Applied Choice Analysis: A Primer Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005 17  Long, J.S., and Freese, J Regression Models for Categorical Dependent Variables Using Stata 2nd ed\ College Station, TX: Stata Press, 2006 18  Louviere, J.J., Hensher, D.A., and Swait, J.D Stated Choice Methods: Analysis and Applications Cambridge UK: Cambridge University Press, 2000  19  McFadden, D. The Choice Theory Approach to Market Research Mktg. Science 5\(4\86, 275-297 20  Riddell, J.M. Adopting a Customer View: Moving From Yielding to Pricing J. Rev. Pric. Mgt 5\(2\, 2006, 167169 21  Selwyn, M.R Experimental Design for the Life Sciences  Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 1996 22  Talluri, K., and van Ryzin, G.J The Theory and Practice of Revenue Management Boston, MA: Kluwer, 2004 23  Trans Link Systems. History, available at  www.translink.nl accessed on September 1, 2008 24  Train, K.E Discrete Choice Methods with Simulation  Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2003 25  Verma, R., and Plaschka, G. Predicting Customer Choices MIT Sloan Mgmt. Rev 47\(1\05, 7-10 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was sponsored by Netherlands Railways and the Erasmus Research Institute of Management. We wish to thank our colleagues who participated in our pricing and revenue management project, including MuConsult for their data collection efforts. Eric Clemons was instrumental in helping us to become aware of the opportunity to test the theory of informedness through his own interesting research. Hugh Watson and Gordon Gao provided excellent suggestions on an earlier version. Rinus Haaijer, Jan Henk Keijzer and Freek Hofker offered helpful insights. Rob Kauffman thanks the W. P. Carey Chair and the Center for Advancing Business through Information Technology at Arizona State University for partial support  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


cyclic processes are essential for structured data collection [e.g. 13, 19]. We agree that the cyclic process, as well as structured data collection, is essential. However, we would argue that the borders of the cyclical processes are emergent and changing. This means that determining when one phase \(such as problem diagnosis such as planning intervention for negotiation. If the action research project truly takes the continuously changing practice into account it makes it impossible to initially plan the whole project, including all the cycles and phases \(see Figure 1 Instead, we would propose that one of the areas essential to creating the engagement necessary for the knowledge translation context is to manage the cyclic perspective on the research. This includes continuously evaluating the practical problems as well as identifying the theoretical research approach. We believe that allowing the theoretical approach to change and move together with the context increases the chances of producing theoretically anchored findings immediately relevant for practice. However, managing this process requires that the data collection techniques are continuously re-evaluated. Without clear borders between activities, the risk of getting lost in the practical problems increases. Therefore, we argue that it is essential work of action researchers to distinguish themselves from the practical cycles, stepping back and reflecting upon the practical problems in light of the research cycles. In this process, the action researcher needs to continuously construct and reconstruct the borders of the project. While constructing and reconstructing borders, we found it beneficial to view the dual cycles of action research practice and research  other 8.3. Managing the network The action researcher?s role depends on the changing context, and effort is required to sustain the relationship with practice both at the organizational Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 and collaborative level. Here the networker role is essential, however often missing from the literature on action research. The problematic issue of putting in extra work to keep the access to the field has been mentioned in previous research [4]. Through our experience, we argue that putting in the time for networking is not a choice but a condition for action research. The extra time is not necessarily well used producing products to meet short term practical goals e.g., such as producing technical reports requiring quick turnaround best used building up engagement and networking as well as keeping the door open and noticing new opportunities. The small, quick products are sometimes important \(such as the phone interview report in our case that producing these short term products requires too much time to justify their usefulness when viewed only as in relation to the research cycle. In some situations producing objects \(e.g., reports demonstrable use as research products might have demonstrable long term consequences as networking and trust-building tools, thus contributing to the knowledge translation process, linking theory and practice 8.4 Translating theoretical concepts The process of co-authoring with practitioners across disciplinary lines involved translation of theoretical concepts to the practitioners. And although 


theoretical concepts to the practitioners. And although it was clear that they were interested in writing, the hospital staff had very little time, if any, available during their normal work hours. Therefore, the time for research was constrained, and writing was mostly done outside regular working hours. In this situation it is not possible to overload your co-authors with a lot of reading material. Instead, you need, as a part of the coauthorship, to present the theoretical perspective as well as the theoretical argument in the actual writing You describe much more about the theoretical framework than you do normally. However, these more detailed descriptions of the theoretical framework do not end up in the final submitted papers. In this way there is a lot of extra effort required when writing with practitioners. There is much more articulation work 28, 29] involved in the cooperative work of coauthoring papers with practitioners Moreover, since the context is changing, the theoretical foundation for research also needs to be reconstructed. This means that when allowing the practical situation to guide the direction of research, it calls for a malleable theoretical perspective. Therefore we would argue that stability in theory is an idealized vision [13], and an important part of action research as knowledge translation is to balance the theoretical approach with the actual practical work We would argue that even though it is challenging to co-author with practitioners, this process adds to the data collection and interpretation techniques, since you get the practitioners? perspective on the actual theoretical findings, which helps ensure that the theoretical contributions are relevant for practical situations. Finally, we believe that co-authoring can be seen as a knowledge translation activity supporting the design of information systems that is unique to action research 9. Conclusion We set out to investigate IS action research as a knowledge translation process that enables the development of new theoretical knowledge together with practitioners and ensures findings have practical relevance for the design of health information systems We found that establishing a research context as a knowledge translation context required a strong relationship with practice. This strong relationship supported our engagement with the actual design activity of the health information system, spurring a process of crucial negotiations for the reconfiguring of the generic EDIS Creating the research context as a context of knowledge translation requires four important activities: 1 goals, 2 managing the network, and 4 the continuously changing theoretical conceptual framework By identifying these activities embedded in action research, we, at the same time, question some of the taken-for-granted descriptions of action research as they appear in the information system community [8 Negotiating and renegotiating the dual goals raises questions about whether or not it makes sense at all to have, as an ideal approach, the researcher/client agreement negotiated initially [10, 13], because it will change over time Naming managing the action cycles as a crucial part of action research causes us to question the whole approach presented in many descriptions of action research?that the research project is a straightforward clearly phased process [9, 13, 19 Pointing to the essential element of managing the 


Pointing to the essential element of managing the network as a part of action research makes visible an absent issue of action research, which has not been addressed within literature. We found that network was essential for creating the close relationship with practice, establishing a context for knowledge Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 translation where the creation of knowledge directly impacted the design of health information systems Finally, we argue that creating and translating the continuously changing theoretical conceptual framework is an important part of action research when viewing it as a knowledge translation process. Here we challenge the notion that action research is based upon a clearly defined theoretical foundation upfront [6, 13 14] by stating that the theoretical approach is a moving target following the forever-changing context  Action research contributes to the design of health information systems by engaging us, as health IT researchers, in the processes of designing and computerizing hospitals. We become committed to producing timely and accessible findings that can be used in practice. By noticing issues of the design, we make possible conflicts visible and available for negotiations in the actual process of design and reconfiguration. When we then engage in discussions and negotiations with the practitioners, volunteering theoretical conceptualizations of the experienced issues, we, together with the practitioners, co-construct the context of research and knowledge translation Knowledge translation does not go only one way, since both researchers and practitioners construct and create new meaning essential for new knowledge Action research in HCI knowledge translation comprises the dual process of transforming and aligning practitioners? practical experiences into empirical observations, as well as developing transforming, and aligning theoretical concepts relevant to explain, interpret, and understand the empirical observations We do not claim to have produced a conclusive list of the work required to establish action research as a knowledge translation context. Instead, this is the beginning of articulating an important benefit of action research in a user-centered design perspective, which has been neglected in previous HCI papers [1]. We support the work of B  dker and Buur  [3] in that enacting research on user-centered design together with practitioners engaged in real life practices and contexts, such as in hospitals, will benefit from applying action research approaches. We do hope others also will take up the challenge to engage in action research projects by participating in design processes, since this will bring new venues for HCI research in general Acknowledgement This study is a part of the research project ACTION for Health, funded by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, Grant #5122003-1017, titled ?The role of technology in the production, consumption and use of health information: Implications for policy and practice,? with contributions from Simon Fraser University Vancouver General Hospital, and British Columbia Children?s Hospital References 1] C. Chewar and D. McCrickard, "Links for a human-centered science of design: Integrated design knowledge environments for a software development 


knowledge environments for a software development process",  38th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Hawaii, 2005, IEEE  2] J. Buur and S. B  dker, "From usability lab to design collaboratorium': reframing usability practice Designing Interactive Systems: Processes, Practices Methods, and Techniques \(DIS ACM Press. pp. 297-307  3] S. B  dker and J. Buur, "The design collaboratorium a place for usability design", ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction. 2002; 9 \(2 169  4] R.N. Rapoport, "Three Dilemmas in Action Research", Human Relations. 1970; 23 \(6 513  5] E. Mumford, "The story of socio-technical design Reflections on its successes, failures and potential Information Systems Journal. 2006; 16, pp. 317-342  6] P. Checkland and S. Holwell, "Action Research: Its Nature and Validity", Systemic Practice and Action Research. 1998; 11 \(1  7] K. B  dker, F. Kensing, and J. Simonsen Participatory IT design: Designing for Business and Workplace Realities, The MIT Press, Cambridge Massachusetts,  2004  8] R. Baskerville and M. Myers, "Special Issue on Action Research in Information Systems: Making IS Research Relevant to Practice - Foreword", MIS Quarterly. 2004 September; 28 \(3  9] R. Baskerville and A.T. Wood-Harper, "A Critical Perspective on Action Research as a Method for Information System Research", Journal of Information Technology. 1996; 11, pp. 235-246  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 10] R.M. Davison, M.G. Martinsons, and N. Kock Principles of canonical action research ", Information Systems Journal. 2004; 14, pp. 65-86  11] T. Davenport and L. Markus, "Rigor vs. relevance revisted: Response to Benbasat and Zmud", MIS Quarterly. 1999; 23 \(1  12] J. Braa, E. Monterio, and S. Sahay, "Networks of action: Sustainable health information systems across developing countries", MIS Quarterly. 2004; 28 \(3 pp. 337-362  13] J. Iversen, L. Mathiassen, and P.A. Nielsen Managing Risk in Software Process Improvement: An Action Research Approach", MIS Quarterly. 2004 September; 28 \(3  14] L. Mathiassen, "Collaborative practice research Information Technology &amp; People. 2002; 15 \(4 321-345  15] B.T. Pentland, "Information systems and organizational learning: The social epistemology of organizational knowledge systems", Accounting management and information technology. 1995; 5 \(1 pp. 1-21 


pp. 1-21  16] N. Jacobson, D. Butterill, and P. Goering Development of a framework for knowledge translation: understanding user context", Journal of Health Services Research &amp; Policy. 2003; 8 \(2 94-99  17] I.D. Graham, J. Logan, M.B. Harrison, S.E Straus, J. Tetroe, W. Caswell, et al., "Lost in Knowledge Translation: Time for a Map?" The Journal of Continuing Education in the Health Professions 2006; 26, pp. 13-24  18] P. M  rtensson and A. Lee, "Dialogical Action Research at Omega Corporation", MIS Quarterly. 2004 September; 28 \(3  19] G.I. Susman and R.D. Evered, "An Assessment of the Scientific Merits of Action Research Administrative Science Quarterly. 1987 December; 23 4  20] J. McKay and P. Marshall, "The dual imperatives of action research", Information Technology &amp; People 2001; 14 \(1  21] D. Avison, R. Baskerville, and M. Myers Controlling action research projects", Information Technology &amp; People. 2001; 14 \(1  22] B.R. Winthereik, A.d. Bont, and M. Berg Accessing the world of doctors and their computers Making available objects of study and the research site through ethnographic engagement", Scandinavian Journal of Information Systems. 2002; 14 \(2 58  23] P. Bj  rn and E. Balka, "Health Care Categories have Politics too: Unpacking the Managerial Agendas of Electronic Triage Systems", In: L. Bannon, I Wagner, C. Gutwin, R. Harper, andK. Schmidt, editors ECSCW 2007: Proceedings of the Tenth European Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, Limerick, Ireland, 2007 September 24-28 Springer. pp. 371-390  24] P. Bj  rn and K. R  dje, "Triage drift: A worksplace study in a pediatric emergency department", Computer Supported Cooperative Work CSCW 4 395-419  25] P. Bj  rn. Canadian Children?s Emergency Departments: Triage Practice &amp; Electronic Triage Systems. Burnaby: School of Communication ACTION for Health, Simon Fraser University; 2007  26] P. Bj  rn, S. Burgoyne, V. Crompton, T MacDonald, B. Pickering, and S. Munro, "Boundary factors and contextual contingencies: Configuring electronic templates for health care professionals submitted, pp  27] D. Forsythe, "It's just a matter of common sense Ethnography as Invisible Work", Computer Supported Cooperative Work \(CSCW 1999; 8, pp. 127-145  28] S.L. Star and A. Strauss, "Layers of Silence Arenas of Voice: The Ecology of Visible and Invisible 


Work", Computer Supported Cooperative Work CSCW  29] K. Schmidt and L. Bannon, "Taking CSCW Seriously: Supporting Articulation Work", Computer Supported Cooperative Work \(CSCW International Journal. 1992; 1 \(1-2    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


0.282 499 0.536 229 0.367 488                LNAGE -0.326 \(.646 0.642 133 0.063 871 0.442 209 0.246 617 0.182 782 0.234 491 0.008 968 0.031 905 0.332 236 0.906 006 0.949 008                Model fit F 0.720 6.560 13.280 15.860 8.73 3.87 4.360 12.610 9.700 8.360 5.72 2.83 p value  lt;.0001 &lt;.0001 0.014 Adjusted R2 -0.049 0.476 0.667 0.712 0.568 0.328 0.299 0.608 0.541 0.517 0.430 0.234 p &lt; .10, ** p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  Table 7. The Regression Result on Aggregate Box Office Revenue    O v e r a l l  M a i n s t r e a m  N o n m a i n s t r e a m CONST 13.057 \(.000 14.763 lt;.000 14.611 lt;.000  LNMSG0 1.035 000 1.127 lt;.000 0.597 lt;.000  POSPER0 0.008 443 0.003 0.871 0.002 0.794  NEGPER0 0.003 888 0.009 767 0.020 305  


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





