 Coordination and Governance in Geographically Distributed Enterprise Architecting: An Empirical Research Design  J. Alberto Espinosa Kogod School of Business American University alberto@american.edu   Wai Fong Boh Nanyang Business School Nanyang Technological University awfboh@ntu.edu.sg    Abstract  Previous research examining the effective implementation and management of enterprise architecture \(EA\ has typically used a governance perspective. However, this perspective does not consider the challenges associated with the architecting effort 
i.e., the processes involved in generating and managing the EA. This requires the coordinated action of many stakeholders and architects, especially when they are geographically dispersed because distance and time barriers need to be bridged to coordinate their efforts. In this paper we adapt a previously suggested architecting coordination framework to develop a research model that integrates the coordination and governance perspectives in order to examine the development and implementation of effective geographically di spersed EAs. We use data obtained from two practitioner workshops on EA and follow up interviews with two participants to do some preliminary analysis. We then propose an empirical research design to study our proposed research 
framework in greater detail   1. Introduction  EA is the explicit description and documentation of the current and desired relationships among business and management processes and information technology  ov idin g  a blueprint for creating enterprise-wide information systems  d ex ec u t i n g  an organization s strategy  h e lps org a n izatio n s  cope with rapidly changing business and technological environments because systems can be developed with fewer redundancies with each other and better 
integration of data and applications co n t rast  when systems are designed and implemented as individual silos the result is often an eclectic group of systems that may not work well with each other Furthermore, an EA is conceptualized with its organization s goals in mind such that individual systems develop consistently with the EA contribute to such goals Prior research on EA has predominantly adopted a governance perspective to examine how organizations should put in place various structures, processes and mechanisms to ensure the effective use and 
implementation of EA [5, 25   T h e go ve r n a n c e  perspective, however, focuses mainly on the mechanistic and structural aspects of managing EA. IT governance is defined as specific decision rights and accountability framework to encourage desirable behavior in using IT 3 p 2. S t u d ies adoptin g t h e  governance perspective therefore examine who should be making decisions with respect to EA, which roles should be defined for managing EA, and which processes and mechanisms should be in place for 
ensuring that the EA is successfully implemented within the organization [5 h ile s p ecify i ng  governance mechanisms and structures are clearly critical to the success of EA efforts in organizations this perspective does not sufficiently consider the challenges and difficulties associated with the enterprise architecting effort, or the process of generating and managing an effective and flexible EA For example, there is no empirical evidence on whether governance structures and mechanisms enhance or hinder coordination, or whether having an EA helps 
governance of the information systems function Investigating coordination and governance jointly in architecting can offer new perspectives of EA that have not been previously investigated The tasks associated with developing and implementing an EA are non-trivial, requiring the coordinated efforts of a large number of individuals and business units. To effectively develop and manage an EA, organizations need to resolve challenges associated with modeling \(i.e., conceptualizing and designing the EA\, management \(i.e., ensuring 
individual systems comply with the EA; and maintenance \(i.e., ensuring that the EA evolves consistently with organizational needs\ [18  T h e complex dependencies among the task activities of those involved in these three areas need to be effectively manage r t h e r m ore, th e di ff ic u lties  of coordinating these task activities are further compounded when those involved in architecting are Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


 geographically dispersed because communication across geographic boundaries is more limited Hence, in this paper, we extend the prior literature by drawing upon coordination theories to understand how organizations can effectively resolve the coordination challenges of developing and managing an effective and flexible geographically distributed EA. We integrate the coordination perspective with the governance perspective, by studying how the structures and roles defined in a governance framework and the geographic configuration of the organization constrain or enhance the ability of its members and stakeholders coordinate their various inputs. We also examine how effective coordination, in turn, facilitates effective governance and management of EA Therefore, our main research questions are 1\at are the main types of dependencies that exist between various architecting activities; \(2\ what are the most effective coordination processes to manage these dependencies among various stakeholders; \(3\ how do EA governance structures and mechanisms enhance or constrain coordination in the process of enterprise architecting? \(4\ how do geographic boundaries enhance or constrain coordination in the process of enterprise architecting; and \(5\ how does an effectively coordinated architecting effo rt affect the governance of the IT function in the organization  Our proposed study will make a unique contribution to the research literature because, as far as we know, no attempts have been made to understand how individuals coordinate their collective effort in geographically distributed architecting. The integration of the governance perspective with coordination theories will also provide significant and unique insights into how various structural and microcoordination processes can be used in complement with one another. In the next few sections we discuss the background of our study, our proposed research model and research design, and our implementation approach In the last section we provide some concluding remarks 2. Research Model A previously formulated research framework  suggested the integration of three bodies of research  enterprise architecture, virtual teams and coordination theory in order to investigate coordination in architecting. Consistently, we integrate the framework with prior literature on IT governance to formulate a more specific research. We posit that the governance structures defined by the organization provide an environment that influences the complexity and extensiveness of coordination that must be undertaken by various architecture roles, especially for phases 1 to 5 from developing the target vision to planning the implementation The coordination process in these phases and how organizations overcome the challenges of coordinating across geographic boundaries influence the comprehensiveness and appropriateness of the target architecture and the plans for implementation that are developed. The EA then needs to be implemented and monitored, in the final phase, and the effectiveness of this implementation is moderated by the conformance governance mechanisms that are adopted. We illustrate the research model we have adopted for this study in Figure 1, aimed at helping us investigate and obtain answers to our research questions. This model focuses specifically on interdependencies and coordination processes. This research model represents the coordination processes  box in our revised research framework, which is illustrated in Figure 2. We explain below our proposed research model and framework in more detail In our model we posit that an EA has layers i.e business architecture, information architecture technology architecture, and application architecture and segments or verticals i.e., one for each business unit, function, division or location, depending on how the EA is organized\ layer and each segment usually have their own architect and staff and the work of these people is highly interdependent requiring a substantial amount of coordination. As one of our interviewees described it no one size fits all  meaning that different layer and different segments require different approaches to architecture. But as the same interviewee put it all these pieces need to be consistent with each other which is where coordination comes into play We posit that any layer and segment can have dependencies with other layers, segments and with the overarching EA, as represented in our model. Hence, it is important to examine how effective coordination can take place to effectively manage these complex interdependencies. In addition, at different points in time, various EA activities have to be conducted and managed across time. Given the importance of considering coordination issues across architectural layers, segments and activities, we propose a research model which we will investigate in a proposed study We first describe the interdepencies that need to be managed between EA layers, segments and activities Based on this description, we then propose a research model where we explain how governance structures coordination processes, geographic boundaries influence the effectiveness of the target EA, and how the latter, in conjunction with governance mechanisms influence individual system implementation outcomes EA Layers vary slightly among different EA frameworks like the Federal EA Framework \(FEAF the U.S. Department of Treasury Enterprise Information Technology Architecture, the Open Group Architecural Framework \(TOGAF\, among others Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


 representing the various views of the architectu However, all include these four views \(i.e., layers some slight variation of them: business, information and data, applications, and technology architecture views. The business view describes the business processes that support all enterprise activities and organizational mission. The data and information view describes the various data entities and relationships to support the business processes. The application view describes the applications necessary to support the processes. Finally, the technology infrastructure view describes all the hardware, software and communications platforms necessary for the applications to interoperate. Naturally, these layers or architectural views need to be coordinated and they are all driven by the business processes supported. In other words, one of the goals of coordination across layers is to ensure an effective alignment of IT practices with business needs. As one interviewee stated the idea is to align all the technical resources to modernize the business and not to terrorize the business units  But as the same person stated this requires a lot of effort to coordinate  EA Segments represent the various business units functions, divisions, geographic locations or other subdivisions within the overall EA, depending on how the EA has been conceptualized. EA segments can be thought of as sub-architectures that collectively comprise the overall architecture of the organization This is particularly important for very large organizations. For example, one interviewee from a large U.S. Government agency discussed 4 segments comprising their EA: Technology Management Human Capital Management, Financial Services and Audit\ Engagement Management. The other interviewee from another large U.S. Government agency referred to these segments as business units  which included things like: submission processing domain, client accounts, internal management, criminal investigations, and security and privacy among others This same interviewee commented that it is important to let the business units drive the architecture and not the EA managers  The main idea is for each business unit or segment to have ownership over their segment architecture so that it can be custom fitted to support their segments business processes. At the same time this interviewee acknowledged the presence of interdependencies among segments and the need to establish some common ground and coordination through things like shared services, common processes and shared models and common platforms EA activities can vary depending on the organization and the particular EA framework utilized. However according to Armour activ itie s i n v o l v e  these distinct phases: \(1\lishing a vision for the target architecture; \(2\cribing the baseline \(i.e current\itecture; \(3\cribing the target architecture; \(4\ning the transition to the target architecture; \(5\ning the actual implementation of the target architecture; and \(6\mplementing individual systems according to the architecture. We briefly describe these activities below Developing the target vision for the EA helps develop a shared understanding of the architecture at a high level of abstraction. It requires a substantial amount of communication and coordination among multiple stakeholder groups \(e.g., customers, users, system architects, developers, etc.\with different views of the   Figure 1 Proposed Research Model \(the arrows represent dependencies Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 organization s systems. Describing the baseline architecture requires inventorying and documenting all the current business processes, information models technology infrastructure and business applications used by the organization, which also requires a substantial amount of communication Developing the target architecture is perhaps one of the most complex EA activities because it requires reaching some consensus among the multiple stakeholders about target EA components, which also requires a substantial amount of interaction Planning the transition to the target architecture needs to consider the multiple dependencies among baseline EA components \(i.e., processes, information technology and applications\and the target EA, which will require a substantial amount of coordination among all stakeholders affected by the transition to plan things like systems integration, system phase out/in, system rollout plans, and business process redesign, among other things. The actual target architecture implementation contains more specific details about financial, technical and human resources and activities necessary for the implementation Finally, the individual system implementations requires ensuring that these systems are develop in compliance with the established EA Interdependencies amongst layers and segments The various architecture layers and segments can be arranged in a matrix as shown in Figure 1. Each cell in the figure has its own distinct architectural components, developed and implemented with a set of activities and processes, which need to be consistent with the general EA formulated for the whole organization. We argue that the architecting activities necessary to develop and manage an integrated EA have inherent complex dependencies between any two cells in this matrix and between any cell and the overall architecting effort. A successful architecting effort is one in which these dependencies have been effectively managed, which is what coordination is all about These dependencies, represented as arrows in the diagram, are particularly difficult to manage when they span geographical boundaries as often seen in today s modern organizations Due to these complex interdependencies, an effective EA requires good coordination, not only across the different architectural layers, and across different business segments, but also across the EA activities discussed above. Different EA activities are targeted for different phases of the EA implementation process and effective coordination of these activities across time is also critical to generating an effective EA which is aligned with the organization s business goals Proposed Research Model To determine how coordination influences the effectiveness of EA, we propose a revised research framework illustrated in Figure 2 to show how the governance perspective can be integrated with coordination theories to inform organizations about effective EA implementation. Our research model in Figure 1 provides the details for the Coordination Processes box of our revised research framework Governance Structures Prior research has identified various structures and processes to effectively govern and manage enterprise architectu e rn an ce  structures and roles refer to the definition of key architecture roles and the structure of IT decision making in the organization \(whether it is centralized within corporate IT or decentralized to local business units\ighlighted by Weill and Ross IT governance applies principles similar to those for financial governance to IT management. It, therefore specifies who has the rights to provide inputs, and who has decision making rights, in order to make IT decisions that provide the most value to the  Governance Structures Governance Mechanisms Coordination Processes Effectiveness of Target EA System Implementation Outcomes Geographic Boundaries  Figure 2 Revised Research Framework Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 organization. A key aspect of EA governance is therefore to specify and create roles that provide specific individuals with authority and responsibility to spearhead and accomplish various EA tasks and proj T h is prov ides  g r eater accoun tabilit y  f o r EA decision making. Boh and Yellin ti f i e s  f o u r  key architecture roles: \(1\e EA management team which is a governance body responsible for guiding and making high-level decisions about EA standards 2\e chief architect, who is the primary individual responsible and accountable for leading the efforts for defining EA standards; \(3\ the architecture team consisting of individuals whose primary job responsibilities are to define and manage the IT architecture; and \(4\e key stakeholders, who are representatives from business groups or IT groups affected by the EA who are invited to provide inputs in the EA setting and management process. The identification and appointment of individuals in these roles provide the resources for organizations to engage in the development and implementation of EA. The effective management of EA thus requires extensive coordination between these specific roles. The coordination efforts are also influenced by the extent of centralization versus decentralization of IT decision making, for various IT decisions \(ranging from technology purchases to application development project initiation Coordination Processes Given the structures and roles specified in the governance framework, different architecture roles need to coordinate amongst one another to obtain relevant inputs for the EA, and to generate the EA models and plans. The types of coordination processes adopted will likely depend on the task activities. We posit that coordination will be necessary across all four roles, but we have no a priori reason or empirical support at this time to suggest that a given type of coordination may be more effective for a particular role. We discuss in this section three main types of coordination discussed in the coordination theory literature Mechanistic coordination or coordination by program or by plan\8, 29 u s ef ul f o r tas k  activities that are more routine and certain, which can be more easily programmed \(e.g., project schedules interface specifications, plans, procedure manuals, and workflow automation tools\or example, one of our interviewees commented that one way to ensure coordination between segments was to define shared services or shared models that can serve multiple EA segments The use of these shared entities would be an example of a mechanistic coordination because they would ensure some consistency among segments Organic coordination  or coordination by communication, by feedback or by mutual adjustment 21, 28  m o re eff ecti v e  w ith un certai n a n d n o n routine task activities that cannot be coordinated mechanistically because conditions are often changing Organic coordination can be informal and spontaneous or formal and planned [20 n t e rpers on al or i n  groups [29  a n d ve r b a l o r no nve r b a l  N a t u r a l l y no t  everything in the EA can be coordinated mechanistically and layer, segment and enterprise architects will need to communicate often to coordinate organically the less predictable aspects of their respective architectures, which can not be managed with shared artifacts. As one interviewee stated understanding how to coordinate the different segments and how to govern all of this is critical One particular challenge that may require substantial organic coordination was described by one interviewee who said that one of the big challenges is that the EA group knows what to do technically, but the business stakeholders are interested in knowing how to keep the information fresh when everything is constantly changing  Finally cognitive \(or implicit\ coordination is accomplished when collaborators have knowledge about each other and about each other s tasks, which helps them anticipate what others are likely to do [7, 8  i t h ou t h a ving to s p eak  w ith eac h oth e r [33  helping them plan their own activities. Cognitive coordination comes in many different ways but it is all based on shared knowledge people have about the task and the individuals. For example, the knowledge that one layer architect may have about a particular segment s architecture can help this particular architect develop models and services consistent with the needs of that an other segments thus achieving higher levels of coordination effectiveness. Similarly, knowing the status of the implementation of a particular segment s target architecture can help other segment architects plan their own work accordingly. Another form of cognitive coordination comes from transactive memory  w h ic h kn o w ledg e abou t w h at ot h e r people know and the ability to locate and access expertise when needed   Generally speaking, cognitive coordination is somewhat related to organic and mechanistic coordination in a number of ways. First, organic coordination through communication and interaction helps build shared cognition among collaborators [7 Second, when collaborators share knowledge about the task and each other, they communicate more effectively, particularly when they are aware of the specific knowledge they share i.e mutual knowledge which  helps develop common ground and shared vocabulary a ll y  sh ared cog n i t i on helps collaborators achieve a mutual understanding about the established mechanistic coordination practices \(e.g., standards, specification, shared models Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 Geographic Boundaries Because our interest is in coordination of the EA effort than in the EA itself, and because coordination is affected by geographic boundaries r res e arch  m odel i n corporates th e  effect of geographic boundaries. While there are many types of boundaries, the two most important geographic boundaries in collaborative work are time and distan h eref ore  w e als o e x a m in e h o w distance and time separation influence how coordination mechanisms affect the effectiveness of EA activities i.e., a moderation effect. For example geographic distance eliminates most of the benefits of co-presence. As a consequence, collaborators communicate less frequently [1 f ecti ng it s ti m e l i n e s s  15, 30 addition  com m u n ication occu rs pri m aril y  through electronic media which is less rich communication because the media through which it takes place are less interactive and have less shared contextual references e og raph ic dis t a n ce al s o  makes it more difficult to develop shared cognition 17  Time separation e.g., time zones, different work schedules, etc affects primarily the timeliness of comm h e am o u n t o f t i m e s e paration among collaborators has a dramatic effect on communication frequency and effectiveness because as time separation increases the window for real-time interaction diminishes. In sum, geographic barriers among EA stakeholders make it more difficult to coordinate organically, making it more important for the team to implement effective mechanistic coordination processes Effectiveness of Target EA An effective target EA is one that has taken care of the interdependencies across different types of architectures and different segments within the organization. Such an EA results from effective coordination across architectural activities and architectural roles Governance Mechanisms Even the best target architecture is useless when there is no compliance with the architecture. Governance processes should therefore, specify not only the structures and processes through which the organization s IT objectives are set but also the means of attaining those objectives and monitoring performan o n f or m a n ce to EA   however, does not happen automatically, as it may restrict the choices of users and require changes to existing practices. Furthermore, conformance often involves some sacrifices in the optimal design of local systems or may cause project teams to incur higher costs in the short run [16, 27 T h u s adequ a te mechanisms need to be in place to facilitate conformance to EA, and to grant exception to standards where necessary. Allowing for exceptions builds flexibility into the process to allow non-conformance to architecture standards when there is sufficient reason to do so. At the same time, it provides for careful deliberation before abandoning standards conformance for key projects  System Implementation Outcomes We propose that well-developed target architecture and appropriate conformance governance mechanisms will result in well-coordinated individual system implementations There are many types of coordination outcomes \(or problems\, but research in collaborative system development suggests three important types of coordination outcomes in IT projects: technical temporal and process coordination Technical coordination problems arise when different parts of a system don t integrate or interoperate well \(i.e ineffective management of technical dependencies Temporal coordination problems occur when the delivery schedules of different interdependent task activities are not synchronized or behind schedule Process coordination problems arise when task activities that affect other activities do not adhere to the agreed upon processes, leading to things like priority conflicts, blocking issues, and out-of-sequence workflow activities 3. Preliminary Study A preliminary analysis was first conducted to understand the value of integrating both the governance and coordination perspective in the study of EA Several months ago a number of influential IT managers, CIOs and academics gathered at a workshop sponsored by a research center of a private university in Northeastern United Sates to identify the most critical areas of IT that need research attention. This group discussed a number these areas and then identified EA as the most important topic for this influential group of IT practitioners. Consequently, we planned a workshop on EA, which was held in December of 2007 in which there were 29 participants including senior IT managers, system architects and CIOs \(from the private sector, financial sector government, and educational and international institutions\orkshop participants identified the key themes of EA research that have most relevance for practice. The three main themes that emerged were: EA generation of business value; shifting from silo based systems to an integrated enterprise IT organization; and developing measures for EA outcomes. Because of the strong interest that this workshop generated, a subsequent workshop was held in April of 2008, in which 26 participants gathered for more specific roundtable discussions on these themes. Three roundtable groups were formed, one for each of the themes, and participants seated voluntarily in the roundtable of their choice to develop a priority research agenda for the center and key subtopics around these themes. A roughly equal number of members gathered at each table Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


 The three subtopics were then discussed and analyzed at each table and a summary analysis was then shared with all participants. A very long list of individual issues for further research emerged for each of the themes. These issues were then re-categorized into three overarching research themes, aimed at learning 1\e best processes and practices leading to an effective EA; \(2\e organizational outcomes of using EA; and \(3\ow to measure EA outcomes In our preliminary analysis, we focused on the notes generated on the first topic of discussion. Based on the notes, we identified three key problems that organizations faced related to the EA development and implementation process. For each problem, we analyzed the solutions proposed, and classified them into either governance or coordination oriented. This analysis shows us how examining solutions to EA problems from both perspectives provides a more comprehensive view of managing EA. We next present the problems and the proposed solutions, based on both the governance and coordination perspectives Problem 1: How to bridge the gap between IT and business personnel Participants highlighted that IT personnel in EA teams were often too technical in their focus and they lacked the ability to speak the business language, thus influencing their communication with Business personnel. This affects their ability to make a cogent business case for EA and for IT investments Conversely, Business personnel were not sufficiently leveraging on IT personnel for their expertise From the governance perspective, workshop participants suggested providing incentives, and redefining the goals of the EA teams to focus on business development. On the business side, the use of incentives may be more challenging. Another possible solution was the assignment of EA liaison roles, who would be responsible for following up with the requests of specific business units. Other participants also noted that it may be a good idea to require the EA team to partner with business units to make any business case. Hence, making a proposal for a solution requires inputs from both business unit and IT From the coordination perspective, workshop participants provided suggestions that clearly illustrated the importance of developing shared knowledge between IT and Business Personnel i.e cognitive coordination.  Frequent interaction over time i.e., organic coordination was a key solution. The education of one another was also a key way to build shared cognition. Finally, workshop participants also noted the need to develop both the breadth and the depth of the expertise of the EA team, in order for them to be able to communicate effectively with both IT and business personnel Problem 2. How to involve the necessary stakeholders from many different business units Participants highlighted that a key challenge was in getting everyone to the table Given that each business unit had its own budget and was more interested in issues that concerned their own business unit than others, it was a challenge to involve all the necessary stakeholders, and to get cooperation across the entire spectrum of stakeholders From the governance perspective, workshop participants suggested that it was important to structure the budget such that the initial stages of EA introduction had its own budget, and did not have to depend on that of business unit. It should also be made clear who makes the final decision. Workshop participants suggested that IT should play the role of the partner, guiding business units to make the appropriate choice. Participants also noted the need to provide incentives for people from different units to work together. It may not always be through the provision of money, but the provision of recognition From the coordination perspective, cross-functional work groups were suggested as an effective way for individuals to understand how individual actions in one business unit affect people in another business unit  i.e., understanding task dependencies.  This also was a good way to help build shared knowledge between key individuals in different business units i.e., cognitive coordination. Communication about the budget is also a helpful way to ensure a shared perspective across different units. As highlighted by a participant, it was important to get people together through discussions discussions, discussions Patience and time was also pointed out to be key. While people from different business units may not see eye to eye during the first meeting, they will learn about each others perspectives through frequent interactions Problem 3. How to focus people on the right objectives  For example, one participant noted was that there was increasing focus on cost-cutting in IT, and this may be at the risk of innovation. From the governance perspective, participants noted that it was important to make use of various decision-making frameworks that clarify the key objectives. The use of the right measurements and metrics to show what the organization values is also one way to focus on the appropriate objectives. However,  one has to first define the key objectives and this would require the inputs of the top management for both, IT and business From the coordination perspective, the CIO and chief architect play a key role in helping to inculcate the right values in their team, to ensure that they focus on the right objectives. This helps develop a shared vision Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 to which the entire EA effort can aim to reach i.e cognitive coordination In summary, the preliminary analysis shows that the governance perspective usually identifies structural solutions to various problems and challenges encountered during the EA development and implementation process. The coordination perspective provides complementary insights by identifying additional solutions such as ways to develop shared knowledge amongst EA stakeholders. Hence we believe that integrating these two perspectives in a more comprehensive study would provide us with significant insights into effective EA management.  We now describe the research design we plan to use in the next few months to explore our research questions empirically 4. Further Study Given that the preliminary study has provided some face validity to our proposed idea of integrating the governance and coordination perspectives, we plan to conduct an in-depth study of our proposed framework using semi-structured interviews and grounded theory methods. Because different organizations may be at different stages of EA maturity d EA  implementation, and may employ very different approaches to EA, we plan to interview a large number of enterprise architects and senior IT managers from various organizations in the public, private government and educational sectors. Several of the participants of the workshops discussed in the Study Background section above have expressed an interest in participating Interviews are a widely used method in information systems research for exploratory studies \(Orlikowski 1993; Majchrzak, Rice et al. 2000; Malhotra Majchrzak et al. 2001; Orlikowski 2002\terview questions will ask multiple participants from various organizations about the governance mechanisms and structures implemented under their governance framework. To inquire about coordination processes interview questions will be focused on identifying the EA layers, architecture segments and the EA maturity and approach for each company in the sample. The questions will then shift in focus to the discovery of key dependencies between EA layers in the same segment, between segments in the same EA layer, and between any two cells from different layers and segments \(see Figure 1\ dependency identified the follow up questions will be aimed at: \(1 classifying the type of dependency as related to technical, temporal or process coordination; \(2 identifying particular EA activities involved; \(3 documenting the particular coordination process used to manage the dependency; \(2\tifying the geographical boundaries separating those involved and determining whether how these boundaries affect coordination; \(5\ermining how coordination is enhanced or constrained by various governance structure and processes; and \(6\aluating the coordination outcomes of individual systems affected Interview The interviews will be audio recorded and transcribed verbatim and then analyzed using Grounded Theory 33 Grou n d ed T h eory i s a w i del y  us ed qu alitati v e  method in information systems research [10, 22, 61  and global collaboration l arl y  w h e n t h e  study is exploratory, and the theoretical development of the topic is in its early stages A s pres c ribed by  Grounded Theory the sample size of participant organizations will be determined by theoretical saturation \(i.e., interviews will stop when no new insights are gained from additional interviews\Also as prescribed by Grounded Theory, the data will be analyzed as is being collected to help re-direct the inquiry based on what the emerging data suggests Also, consistent with Grounded Theory, we will develop an initial coding scheme do open coding of the verbatim text data. Open coding focuses on uncovering general recurrent themes. Once the recurring themes are identified and we have refined our coding scheme we will do axial coding of the text data to find relationships among these themes. The interview cases will then be analyzed by sorting text segments by their respective codes to uncover patterns of responses for each code in the coding scheme. Per Grounded Theory the main goal will be to evaluate similarities and differences among the cases with respect to coordination processes, geographic boundaries, EA activities and coordination outcomes 5. Concluding Remarks  We have proposed a research model and research design for an empirical study to investigate how EA activities are most effectively coordinated, within the constraints or with the help of a governance framework. Our study method will focus on the generation of rich accounts from interviews with experienced system architects and IT managers that will provide insights into the type of dependencies involved with EA activities in large organizational contexts in which the EA itself and the individuals responsible for it are geographically dispersed  6. Acknowledgements This research is being funded by the Center for Information Technology and the Global Economy CITGE\ the Kogod School of Business at American University, Washington DC and by Research Grant RG02/05\rom Nanyang Technological University Singapore  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


 7. References   A lle n   T   Managing the Flow of Technology MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 1977   A r m o u r F.J Kais ler, S.H. and L i u  S.Y A BigPicture Look at Enterprise Architectures IT Professional  1 1\ 35-42   A r m o u r F.J Kais ler, S.H. and L i u  S.Y. Bu i l ding  an Enterprise Architecture Step by Step IT Professional  1 4\ 49-57   B o h  W  F. an d Yellin D. Usi ng En terprise Architecture Standards in Managing Information Technology Journal of Management Information Systems  23 3\163-207   B o h  W  F. an d Yellin D. Usi ng en terprise architecture standards in managing information technology Journal of Management Information Systems  23 3\163-207 6 B u l l e n C a n d B e nne t t  J  G r oup w a r e i n P r a c t i c e   An Interpretation of Work Experiences. in Baecker, R ed Groupware and Computer-Supported Cooperative Work: Assisting Human-Human Collaboration  Morgan Kaufman Publishers, San Francisco, CA 1993, 69-84   C a nn onBo w e r s J.A  an d S a la s  E. R e f l ectio n s on  Shared Cognition Journal of Organizational Behavior  22 2\95-202   C a nn onBo w e r s J.A S a las   E. an d C o n v e r s e, S   Shared Mental Models in Expert Team DecisionMaking. in Castellan, J. ed Individual and Group Decision-Making: Current Issues Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc., Hillsdale, NJ, 1993, 221-246   C r a m to n  C  D. T h e Mu t u al K n o w ledg e P r oblem  and Its Consequences for Dispersed Collaboration Organization Science  12 3\371   Daf t R  a n d L e n g e l, R  Org a nization a l Information Requirements, Media Richness and Structural Design Management Science  32 5   Es pin o s a J.A  an d A r m o u r, F  Geog raph icall y  Distributed Enterprise Architecting: Towards a Theoretical Framework. in 41st. Hawaiian International Conference on System Sciences Big Island, Hawaii, 2008\EEE   Es pin o s a J.A  an d P i ck eri n g   C T h e Ef f ect of  Time Separation on Coordination Processes and Outcomes: A Case Study. in 39th Hawaiian International Conference on System Sciences Poipu Kauai, Hawaii, 2006   Es pin o s a J  A Sla u gh ter, S A., Krau t, R  E. an d Herbsleb, J.D. Team Knowledge and Coordination in Geographically Distributed Software Development Journal of Management Information Systems  24 1 135-169   F a raj  S  an d S p rou ll, L  C oor din a ting E x pertis e in  Software Development Teams Management Science  46 12\1554-1568 15  Gittell, J  H. Su p e rv iso r y  Sp an  Relatio n a l Coordination, and Flight Departure Performance: A Reassessment of Post-Bureaucracy Theory Academy of Management Journal  12 4\468-483   Goodh u e D.L W y bo, M.D. an d Kirs ch  L  J. T h e impact of data integration on the costs and benefits of information systems MIS Quarterly  16 3\93-311   Hin d s  P. an d Weis ban d S  Kn o w ledg e Sh aring  and Shared Understanding in Virtual Teams. in Cohen S.G. and Gibson, C.B. eds Virtual Teams that Work Creating Conditions for Virt ual Team Effectiveness  Jossey-Bass, San Francisco, CA, 2003, 21-36   Kais ler, S.H., A r m o u r F.J  and Valiv u l lah  M Enterprise Architecting: Critical Problems. in 39th Hawaiian International Conference on System Sciences Poipu, Kauai, Hawaii, 2005   Kli m osk i  R  J. an d Moh a m m e d, S   T eam Me n t al Model: Construct or Metaphor Journal of Management  20 2\403-437   Krau t, R  E. an d S t reeter, L  A   C oordin a tion in  Software Development Communications of the ACM  38 3\9-81   March  J. an d S i m o n  H A   Organizations John Wiley and Sons, New York, 1958   P e rry D.E., Stau denm a y er, N.A  a n d Votta, L  G People, Organizations, and Process Improvement IEEE Software  11 4\. 36-45   Peters on R  C r af ti ng Inf or m a t i on T ech n o logy  Governance Information Systems Management  21 4 7-22   R o s s J., Wei l  P an d R obert s o n  D Enterprise Architecture As Strategy: Creating a Foundation for Business Execution Harvard Business School Press Boston, Massachusetts, 2006 25  Ro ss, J  W W e ill P  an d Ro b e rtso n  D.C Enterprise Architecture as Strategy: Creating a Foundation for Business Execution Harvard Business School Press, Boston, MA, 2006   Sau e r, C. an d W illcocks  L  P  T h e ev olu tion of t h e organizational architect Sloan Management Review  43  3\1-49   Sh a n ks G. T h e ch alleng e s o f  s t rateg ic data planning in practice: An interpretive case study Journal of Strategic Information Systems  6 1\9-90 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  T h om ps o n  J Organizations in Action McGrawHill, New York, NY, 1967   Van de Ven   A  H., Delbecq, L.A  an d Koenig R.J  Determinants of Coordination Modes Within Organizations American Sociological Review  41 2 322-338   Waller, M.J  T h e T i m i n g of  Adaptiv e Grou p Responses to Non-Routine Events Academy of Management Journal  42 2\127-137                                  Weg n e r, D. A  C o m p u t er Net w ork Model of  Human Transactive Memory Social Cognition  13 3 319-339 32  W e ill, P  an d Ro ss, J  W   IT Governance: How Top Performers Manage IT Decision Rights for Superior Results Harvard Business School Press, Boston, MA 2004   W itten baum G.M. an d Stas se r, G. Man a g e m e n t o f  Information in Small Groups. in Nye, J.L. and Brower A.M. eds What's Social about Social Cognition Sage Publications, Thousand Oaks, California, 1996, 3-27   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11  M a rc S. A l len Space Operations: Mission Management Technologies, and Current Applications Progress in Astronautics and Aeronautics, American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics, 2007  H.Li ebe, \223M odel i ng at tenuat i on and phase of rad i o  waves in air at frequenc ies below 1000GHz,\224 Radio Science, Vol 16, No 6, pp 1183-1198, 1981 2 J. Ham k i n s and M  K. Si m on, Eds Autonomous Software-Defined Radio Receivers for Deep Space Applications Hoboken NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc 2006 B IOGRAPHY  Sahana Raghunandan is currently pursuing her PhD degree in Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Wireless@VT. Her research interests include software defined radios resource allocation for wireless networks, and hardware and software design of radar systems. She completed her M.Sc studies in electrical engineering at The University of Kansas, Lawrence  Shereef Sayed is pursuing his M.Sc. in Computer Engineering under Dr. Jeff Reed at Wireless@VT. His research interests include models of computation coarse grained configurable computing machines, and embedded platforms. He is also one of the original developers of the OSSIE project and continues to assist in its development Tamal Bose received the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Southern Illinois University in 1988. After faculty positions at the Citadel and the University of Colorado, he joined Utah State University in 2000, where served as the Department Head and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering from 2003-2007 Currently, he is Professor of the Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engin eering at Virginia Tech. He is also the Associate Director of Wireless @ VT The research interests of Dr. Bose include adaptive filtering algorithms, nonlinear effects in digital filters, and multidimensional system theory. He is author of the text Digital Signal and Image Processing, John Wiley, 2004. He is also the author or co-author of over 100 technical papers Dr. Bose served as the Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing from 1992 to 1996. He is currently on the editorial board of the IEICE Transactions on Fundamentals of Electronics, Communications and Computer Sciences, Japan. He also served on the organizing committees of several international conferences Dr. Bose received the 2002 Researcher of the Year award from the College of Engineering at Utah State University and the 2002 Teacher of the Year award from the department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. He received the Researcher of the Year and Service Person of the Year awards at the University of Colorado at Denver He also received two Exemplar y Researcher awards from the Colorado Advanced Software Institute. He is an IEEE EAC program evaluator and a member of the DSP Technical Committee for the IEEE Circuits and Systems society Jeffrey H. Reed is the Willis G. Worcester Professor in the Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering From June 2000 to June 2002, Dr. Reed served as Director of the Mobile and Portable Radio Research Group MPRG He currently serves as Director of the newly formed umbrella wireless organization Wireless @ Virginia Tech Dr. Reed\222s area of expertise is in software radios, cognitive radio, wireless networks and communications signal processing. His book, Software Radio: A Modern Approach to Radio Design was published by Prentice Hall in May 2002. His latest book, An Introduction to Ultra Wideband Communication Systems was published by Prentice Hall in April 2005 Dr. Reed received the College of Engineering Award for Excellence in Research in 2001 In 2005, Dr. Reed became Fellow to the IEEE for contribu tions to software radio and communications signal processing and for leadership in engineering education   


                                Box 3.1. Basics of Survival Analysis  A comprehensive discussion of this topic in the context of PHM can be found in Ma and Krings \(2008a Survival analysis, also known as failure time analysis, has become a de facto standard for analyzing time-to-event data in biomedical research in the last two decades Survival analysis studies positive random variables for describing times to events in concern, also known as survival time, failure time, or simply time-to-event  Survivor Function and Hazard Function  Survivor function and hazard function are two of the most fundamental definitions in survival analysis. The survivor function S\(t time \(T is lt;&lt;?= ttTPtS 0   Note that S\(t function R\(t instantaneous rate of failure at T=t, conditional upon survival to time t.  It is defined as      lim  0 tS tf t tTttTtPt t  lt The above definitions are for univariate survival analysis; survival analysis has been extended to multivariate systems, or the multivariate survival analysis Hougaard 2000, Ma and Krings 2008c 3.7 and 3.8 for Multivariate Survival Analysis  Fundamental Model of Survival Analysis  


 Cox \(1972 most fundamental model in survival analysis. It is a semi-parametric model that correlates conditional survivor \(hazard vector \(z  Hazard Function ?\(t, z covariate vector z zetzt  0 where ?0 \(t function for continuous failure time T  Conditional Survival Functions \(on z   0   ztSztS where  t duutS 0 00 exp is the baseline survivor function  There are numerous extensions to Cox's model \(e.g Therneau and Grambsch 2000, Martinussen &amp; Scheike 2006 8                             UUUR, survival analysis, competing risks analysis, and multivariate survival analysis can be utilized to assess the effects of UUUR events. This forms the foundation of tactical level modeling in the three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008  3.2. Competing Risks Analysis  Competing risks analysis \(Box 3.2; Ma &amp; Krings 2008b for detailed discussion in the context of PHM and reliability subject of survival analysis. It has a history dating back to 1760 when Daniel Bernoulli studied the risks around the smallpox inoculation. However, modern competing risks analysis draw extensively on survival analysis, which was only initiated in late 1950s but the active research was not conducted until the1970s The application of competing risks analysis in reliability is quite earlier, the most famous model may be the Marshall-Olkin model 


earlier, the most famous model may be the Marshall-Olkin model 1967 controversies around the issues of identifiability, which shadows its value when multiple latent risks are dependent.  Three excellent monographs exist for competing risks analysis \(David &amp Moeschberger 1978, Crowder 2001, Pintilie 2006 perspective of survivability analysis, competing risks analysis can be used for analyzing the effects of unpredictable risks by treating the unpredictable events as censored or the effects of latent risks We use the term latent risks to refer to potential failure risks \(but only one of the risks ultimately causes the system failure survivability analysis; this usage of latent risks is totally consistent with the concept of latent risks in competing risks analysis, where these risks are modeled precisely  3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis                                                      Cont' Box 3.1  Another model that is of nearly comparable status with Cox model is the Accelerated Failure Time model 


Cox model is the Accelerated Failure Time model AFT e.g., Kalbfleisch &amp; Prentice 2002, Lawless 2003  Mean Residual Life \(MRL The mean residual life \(MRL lifetime for a sensor node of "age" t and is defined as   tTtTEtMRL &gt  It can be proved that the following equation holds Klein and Moeschberger 2003             tS dxxS tS dxxftT tMRL tt     where S\(t  Proportional Mean Residual Life Models exp  0 ztmztm T that m\(t|z the covariates, and m0\(t lifetime \(Oakes and Dasu 1990; Chen &amp; Cheng 2005 This model should be particularly useful for PHM Box 3.2. Basics of the Competing Risks Analysis \(CRA  In competing risks analysis \(CRA experiences multiple risks simultaneously, but it may fail from one of the risks only and fail only once. The risk that leads to the failure becomes the cause of the failure Therefore, risk is often used before the failure occurs and the cause is preserved for the afterwards \(Crowder 2001 failure is the defining characteristic of competing risks analysis. It also implies that the system is multivariate from the perspective of risks, but univariate from the perspective of the single failure time and single cause  There are two sets of formulations for CRA in the literature. The first is described with a pair of vectors of random variables the latent \(theoretical David and Moeschberger 1978 used below well as sub-survival functions \(Crowder 2001  There is one and only one cause in the set of k causes for each failure observed.  The elements of C are called risks before failures and causes afterwards. The risks compete for the cause. In reliability analysis, C might be faulty components in a series system and T is the breakdown time of the system; or C might be the failure modes, such as asymmetric vs. symmetric  The sub-distribution function is defined as   tTjCtjF equivalently, the sub-survivor function is defined as   tTjCtjS &gt Obviously jptjFtjS   where   jSjFjCp j represents the marginal distribution of C 


represents the marginal distribution of C  The sub-density function f\(j, t represented by  dttjdStjf The marginal survivor function and marginal density of T can be calculated with kj tjStS 1       1? ==?= kj tjfdttdStf The related conditional probabilities are Pr \(time t |cause j j, t Pr \(cause j | time t j, t t Pr\(time t | cause j caused by j, for example, the survival time distribution of cancer patients in a biomedical experiment. Similarly Pr\(cause j | time t specific age group 9 The latest advances in survival analysis have been centered on multivariate systems. Multivariate survival analysis has two major categories of models: one is multi-state modeling; the other is shared frailty modeling. Multi-state models, although formulated differently in both fields, have been extensively studied in reliability analysis in the context of Markov chain analysis. In contrast, shared frailty modeling seems little known in reliability analysis and PHM. To the best of my knowledge, there is only one reference in the form of monograph, i.e., by Hougaard 2000 analysis in the context of reliability and PHM can be found in Ma &amp; Krings \(2008c 2008d frailty and multi-state modeling, respectively. Given the complexity involved with multivariate survival analysis, any description of actual model is quite involved and hard to fit in a comment box. Box 3.3 only contains a few concepts  The previous univariate survival analysis and, to a lesser extent, the competing risks analysis have several significant limitations. The first limitation is the implicit assumption of single failure or single time-to-event transition. In Figure 2 multiple states and multiple transitions are the norm, rather than the exception. This is a multivariate survival system and multi-state modeling is obviously more appropriate than the univariate or competing risks analysis. Competing risks analysis can only address the multiple risks, but not multiple failures, which further can be dependent with each other. In more general terms, multiple failures with common-events modes represent the typical failure mechanisms in a multivariate system, but both univariate survival analysis and competing risks analysis can help little in modeling the dependences This constitutes the second limitation.  A third limitation is that not all covariates are observable, and some of the unobservable or unobserved may have critical influences on the 'survival' \(or transitions between states nodes. These unobservable covariate factors may create common-risks dependences, and the shared frailty model can capture these kinds of unobservable common-risks While the capability to capture the effects of unobserved or unobservable common-risks is critical for reliability modeling, its criticality to survivability modeling cannot be overemphasized because the quantitative study of this issue does not exist in the existing survivability research Therefore, shared frailty modeling is a critical tool for studying the influences of UUUR events in the tactical level modeling of survivability  Of course, the above limitations discussed equally apply to the traditional reliability theory because traditional reliability theory is based on the binary-state logic \(either failed or operational especially of computer networks, is often characterized by 


especially of computer networks, is often characterized by the multi-state performance degradations before reaching the complete failure. This multi-state nature of reliability has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and the most significant advances have been in the field of multistate reliability modeling \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003                                                 4. STRATEGIC MODELING AND DYNAMIC   Box 3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis  Dependence Mechanisms  Dependence is often the central focus of multivariate survival analysis, and together with censoring, they complicate survival analysis most significantly. Hougaard \(2000 three mechanisms of dependence: \(i ii iii Common events are equivalent to common mode failures in reliability analysis, for example, failure events due to accidents or natural disasters. The common risks mechanism describes the scenario that the individuals are dependent due to some common unobserved risks such as common genes in siblings or a bug in the operating system that may affect all software running on 


operating system that may affect all software running on it. The third mechanism, event-related mechanism refers to the phenomena that the actual event itself changes the risk, such as virus infection of a computer node Shared Frailty Modeling  Shared frailty theory occupies the central focus of multivariate survival analysis. The dominance is not accidental because frailty captures crucial but often directly unobservable \(latent random variables, which are attributable for dependence and variations. To some extent, dependence, variation randomness, and frailty all address some facets of multivariate failure events. The frailty theory provides a unique set of approaches to address the theoretical and practical issues related to those four concepts.  Similar to the fact that censoring is the trademark feature of survival analysis \(both univariate and multivariate frailty theory is the trademark of multivariate survival analysis. These two trademark properties, censoringhandling and frailty modeling, have made multivariate survival analysis a unique and indispensable mathematical tool for biomedical and public health research Multi-State Modeling  Multi-state has been developed concurrently in several fields in the last decade, including survival analysis \(Hougaard 2000 reliability \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003 Commenges 1999 Huzurbazar 2006 multi-state modeling has been adopted to solve the domain specific problems, and the flow graph modeling offers a flexible and powerful approach to analyze multi-state models in general. Multi-State model is often formulated as Markov Process models. The transition probabilities in multi-states modeling are well defined by survivor functions \(Hougaard 2000 multi-state model is to estimate the state transition probabilities from hazards functions. multivariate system. According to Lisnianski and Levitin's \(2003 any systems that can have a finite number of performance rates are multi-state systems. Furthermore a system may consists of components which themselves could be multi-state subsystems 10 4. STRATEGIC LEVEL MODELING AND DYNAMIC HYBRID FAULT MODELS  Hybrid fault models are derived from agreement algorithms Lynch 1997 redundancy management in fault tolerance.  Therefore, the choice of hybrid fault models directly affects reliability analysis and fault tolerance. Despite the close ties between reliability and fault tolerance fields, Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e Ma 2008a with regard to the quantitative relationship between reliability analysis and hybrid fault models. To address the unrealistic assumption, they proposed a new concept  dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF mathematical tools \(survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling we first briefly describe the issues involved and summarize some of their key findings in Box 4.1  Agreement algorithms started out with the introduction of the Byzantine general problem by Pease et al. \(1980 Lamport \(1982 system are abstracted as generals of an army.  Loyal generals \(non-faulty components algorithm e.g., to attack or retreat while traitors \(or bad components others by sending conflicting messages. Because the focus of agreement algorithms is to reach agreement in the presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the 


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


