What do you get when you Overlay an Enterprise with an Enterprise Management Process Joseph R Farrier and Josef Salerno Raytheon Space and Airborne Systems 2000 E El Segundo Boulevard El Segundo CA 90245-0902 310-616-1233 and 310-616-1728 j oefaffiergraytheon.com and j oesalerno raytheon.com Abstract As engineering systems increase in complexity so too do the management systems required to manage and control the organizations that develop them Enterprise management systems such as product development processes and command 
media are often created to help ease these complexities However without a means to compare and associate actual work performed to the enterprise management system the opportunity for optimized enterprises is lost By combining industry standard accounting infrastructure the enterprise management system du jour and a customized intelligent system to map the two that hope can become reality 12 Such an intelligent system can take an organization from a state of defined processes to optimized enterprise Specific benefits include Clear indicators 
of organizational adherence to enterprise management systems and how well those systems are performing to their intent Functional efficiency and performance metrics across enterprises functional groups and down to the individual contributor Better focus on critical path tasks by the individual contributors begin to own their own budgets schedules and scopes Mentoring and training opportunities are identified along the enterprise management system allowing for a focused development approach Individuals can clearly identify their personal association to 
program schedules and budgets It is the purpose of this paper to discuss an approach taken to connect enterprise management systems to the actual work performed within engineering enterprises and the opportunities associated to this approach Discussions will include the critical design elements system development integration with existing infrastructure such as SAP promotion of healthy user behavior through design requirements buy-in from management alignment to management theory deployment strategies scalability of metrics and other opportunities that result It is the 
intent of these discussions to describe an actual implementation and 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1427 Version 5 Updated January 9 2008 its benefits in addition to helping the reader identify opportunities for implementation within their own organizations TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 2 THE LEAP FROM PROCESS DEFINITION TO QUANTIFICATION  2 3 THE ELEGANT SOLUTION 2 4 BENEFITS 3 5 CONCLUSION 4 REFERENCES 6 BIOGRAPHIES 
6 1 INTRODUCTION It is no secret that industry has interest in demonstrating competencies as defined by CMMI levels in support of their case to win and maintain business And while defined product development processes and enterprise management systems exist freely not all companies have specifically translated those into their own operating model Even with a well defined product development system the actual implementation of such a process is hindered by the academic and theoretical nature of the process itself While adopting 
a product development process helps define the gold standard of processes to be followed it does not necessarily set the organization down a path of adherence to those processes When considering an approach such as this questions similar to the following should be considered How does an organization move from simply having a process to fully using and following one What level of commitment is required of leadership How should an implementation be rolled out Many 
of the challenges resulting from trying to start utilizing a product development process stem from individuals resisting any change to how one approaches their work Some people will argue that the process is too taxing and that the process they have been following is sufficient or superior Others will do even worse and learn how to pass gate reviews with upper management by skillfully rationalizing why their performance is sufficient when compared to the product development process The 1 


difficult part that anyone trying to fully implement a product development system will face is that there is truth in both of those arguments What one must realize is that the arguments like those typically mean that the enterprise is missing an opportunity to improve as an enterprise Some anecdotal evidence to this is when organizations start looking for ways to transfer lessons learned The fact is that like humans enterprises transfer lessons learned by embedding those lessons within memory in support of future processing What must be realized is that the memory of an organization belongs within the confines of the product development system Learning no doubt will involve changes to logic and content of the product development system Lesson will only be transferred within the reaches of the processes that are being improved It is for this reason that enterprise level management must commit to implementation of a process across the enterprise in order to establish a memory that will be consistently improved in support of enterprise wide performance Some of the first steps required to begin down this path are to Predict and mitigate any risk involving culture change Socialize the idea that individual contributors will need to know their individual scopes budgets schedules and what work products their work specifically maps to in the product development process Identify clear ownership of the product development process down to the task level by functional manager Train individuals on the intent of product developments processes Establish a help desk for the mapping of reality to process Within an engineering group at Raytheon SAS Robert P Wright asked some of his team members to consider building a systems dynamic model of the entire SAS Enterprise And so began development of a model based on the Enterprise Management System used by Raytheon but everything came to a halt when one simple question was asked Where shall we go for the inputs to the system It was then the team realized that in order to understand how the enterprise was doing in terms of their product development process specific information was required from individual contributors on their own performance AND it must map to the process We had each of our employees and functional managers identify which pieces of our stage gate process they were working on and record that data in a centralized tracking tool Once each employee knows how his or her work maps to our standard stage gate process management can begin to record analyze and act upon performance metrics These performance metrics tell us specifically where we deviate from the process how we are performing on the various process segments and in which process areas we are performing to plan 2 THE LEAP FROM PROCESS DEFINITION TO QUANTIFICATION There is a vast difference between Capability Maturity Model Integration CMMI Level 3 and CMMI Levels 4 and 5 An organization that has achieved CMMI Level 3 is recognized as having a defined process which is a managed process that is tailored from the organization's set of standard process according to the organization's tailoring guidelines and contributes work products measures and other process improvement information to the organizational process assets 3 Level 4 the quantitatively managed level is defined as a defined process that is controlled using statistical and other quantitative techniques 4 CMMI Level 5 the optimization level takes this concept even further by having a quantitatively managed process that is improved based on an understanding of the common causes of variation inherent in the process 5 Clearly moving from having a defined process to one that is quantitatively managed and eventually to a self-optimizing level of process maturity requires making a dramatic leap from simply having a process to maximizing its effect on the quality and predictability of an organization's work 3 THE ELEGANT SOLUTION By combining industry standard accounting infrastructure SAP our company's stage-gate process and a customized intelligent system to map the two together we have enabled our leaders to quantitatively manage our process-based performance and to optimize the process itself Effectively our system tracks which work products employees are working on integrates with our SAP-based accounting system to allow the mapping of time charges to work products and then allows functional managers to regularly status individual work product's qualities and completion statistics Initial Information Loading Our management system encourages performance-oriented dialogue between employees and their functional and program supervisors using the language of our stage gate process Employees and managers sit down to define the scope of the employee's work in terms of process work products and then define the task's budget and duration This information is entered one time per work product per employee and immediately gives our organization a comprehensive view of all tasks in work and perhaps more importantly those tasks not currently in work as well as 2 3 Chrissis Konrad and Shrum 47 4 Chrissis Konrad and Shrum 48 5 Chrissis Konrad and Shrum 48 2 


their respective due dates and budgets This dialog and the information that results enables employees to take ownership of their work and to aggressively pursue their performance cost and schedule goals on their individual efforts Financial Integration Each work product mapped to an employee is further mapped to one of the employee's authorized timecard charge numbers Our system then integrates with our organization's SAP-based timecard system to identify the amount of time spent on each employee's work product When combined with the budget and schedule information allocated during the work product's initial information loading described above as well as the statusing information below this enables a plethora of financial and earned value type performance metrics Information Statusing Each work product entered for an employee is then statused by the employee's functional supervisor at regular intervals to provide for additional quantitative management and metric generation capabilities Functional managers meet with their employees on a regular basis to evaluate their work product performance Each work product's perceived quality and measured completion percentage is then entered into our tool enabling the generation of a whole suite of powerful financial and performance metrics such as CPI SPI TCPI TSPI ETC EAC employee work loading and likelihoods of successful completion 4 BENEFITS Process Establishing an approach to relate actual work to the fundamental elements of the process work products enables process optimization Without such an approach process remains in the world of theory far removed from the reality of actual work Ultimately a process whose definition and correctness is of the highest maturity will have no benefit to the organization that lacks process adherence By linking the process work products to actual work products there is opportunity to directly associate plans budgets and performance to the process This enables control and optimization Behavioral/Cultural We have employed our tool not only as a means of facilitating the use and optimization of our process but also as a cultural change agent By creating a culture where the discussions and questioning of budgets scope expectations and completion dates happen on a regular basis between functional management program management and individual engineering contributors we have engrained in our organization a culture of performance with our stage gate process serving as an outline for communication Our formalized way of doing business through this tool also creates a culture of employee empowerment Employees who have formal documentation of their managers expectations and of their budget and schedule as well as the frequent feedback and metrics required to evaluate their own progress have the tools they need to take full ownership of their results Employees cannot be expected to exceed or even regularly meet budget schedule and performance expectations if those expectations were never formally and explicitly communicated Another key cultural improvement is the complete adoption of the process as our way of doing business from the language used to communicate expectations to the execution of work to the scheduling of tasks and setting of budgets Employees and managers no longer merely perform work to our stage gate process but actually communicate with each other through its standardized set of terms and through standard documentation and tools Having everyone focused on performing to a single gold standard of doing business our stage gate process allows our organization to truly optimize the process performance If an organization were not to fully embrace a process there would be no reason to improve and optimize the process itself it would be shelf-ware In our organization the process is the fundamental backbone of how we do business and thus any changes we implement to optimize the process immediately begin to optimize our overall program execution and performance as well Performance Tweaking our organization's stage gate process can be considered a top-down approach to performance improvement but how does one improve performance from the bottom-up at the individual contributor level Our tool allows us to effectively and instantaneously measure performance to the process at any level from the entire organization to particular functional areas to particular programs to a single team all the way down to an individual engineer This extraordinary breadth of visibility when combined with the depth of our metric generation capabilities which include a full suite of quality and earned value type metrics for every individual work product provides our management team with unprecedented insight into our performance Management can see where we are vastly exceeding cost schedule and performance expectations and more importantly can quickly identify any areas where we are not quite performing to plan before they ever were to become insurmountable problems Not only can immediate action be taken technical or management support can be given training can be provided or staffing adjustments can be 3 


executed but the real-time impact of these adjustments can be seen and quantitatively measured to determine if any further action is required Do you want to know if that training class you sent your team to actually improved their performance Now you can measure the improvement With our system minor deviations in expected cost schedule or technical performance are immediately identified and can be solved before they ever develop into problems This real-time metric capability enables the implementation of even more remarkable management tools that go beyond illuminating the current state of performance to actually being able to offer statistical predictions of future performance Since we already know the input-output relationship of every work product in our stage gate process as well as each of their completion and quality statuses we can input all of this information into a system dynamics model to predict the likelihood of on-time high performance work product results in the future With this model to be described in our paper next year we can view the statistical probabilities of future performance given today's operating environment If a work product is delayed of lower than expected quality or even intentionally tailored out today we can immediately determine how future work products will be impacted to-use easy-to-access expert system The result of this expert system is that functional and program management have an unprecedented view of their team's performance including CPI SPI TCPI TSPI ETC EAC employee work loading and likelihoods of successful completion available at the individual work product level and aggregatable up to each integrated product team program functional group business area or product line and even to the organization as a whole Finally while any manager would love to look at a snapshot of these metrics from any point in time our system allows them to go much further than that by making each of these views into the organization's performance available real-time This allows the performance tuning of an organization performance can be measured adjustments can be made and results can be immediately evaluated Now that is a process that has extraordinary impact on real-world performance 5 CONCLUSION Stage gate processes tell an organization the best way to perform their work in order to achieve a high likelihood of success but how can an organization effectively measure how well this prescribed process is being followed how any tweaks or adjustments made affect performance or measure the impact that beyond-process improvements such as training have on final cost schedule and performance results How do organizations optimize their processes and more importantly how do they hope to effectively correlate process improvements and optimizations to improvements in the area that truly matters performance The answer to all of these questions is to fully integrate the process into each and every employee's work to encourage employees to explore the details of their supervisors expectations using the unified language of an organization's stage gate process and then to constantly monitor evaluate and analyze performance at every level and slice of the organization of interest Our system does just that It directly ties our stage gate process to the work being performed by our individual contributors on programs by requiring functional managers to sit down with each of their employees and map their daily work efforts to the process work products and to explicitly define the scope budget and schedule for each task It then clearly links our SAPbased financial tracking system to each work product allowing the gathering of actual charges and budget consumption and combines this information into one easy4 


Sample Work Product Distribution 16 0 14 E 12 0 o 10 08 a 8 0 6 40 0 Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 Figure 1 Sample Work Product Distribution 5 


REFERENCES 1 Chrissis Mary Beth Mike Konrad and Sandy Shrum CMMI Guidelines for Process integration and Product Improvement Second Edition Boston Pearson Education Inc 2 Zanthus.com Web site http://www.zanthus.com 3 Aerospace Conference Web site http://www.aeroconf.org BIOGRAPHIES Joseph Farrier is a Chief Process Engineer and Integrated Business Lead at Space and Airborne Systems in El Segundo CA Joseph holds a Bachelors of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from Texas A&M University and a Master of Science in Engineering Management from the University of Southern California He can be reached via email at joefarriergraytheon.com Josef Salerno is an Engineering Rotator with Raytheon Space and Airborne Systems in El Segundo CA His work has ranged from Radar Mode Analysis to the development of a variety of leadership methods and tools used for performance measurement and optimization staffing training and metrics management throughout the organization Josef holds a Bachelors of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Southern California where he is currently pursuing his Masters degree in Engineering Management Mr Salerno's technical interests include systems engineering software development and digital hardware design In his free time he enjoys snowboarding cooking and traveling He can be reached via email at joesalernograytheon.com 6 


  Figure 3. A sequence negotiating game play   Another remarkable sequence is shown in Figure 4. While game play is actively ongoing, a player engages with two other players over a period of two minutes regarding living conditions in Switzerland where he is thinking of moving. With the exception of the game play reactions in the background, this conversation is as coherent as any dyadic instant messaging exchange, in that it is continuous and progresses in a diagonal, step-wise fashion h is s e q u en ce is  unique in our data, in that it is the only conversation that is purely social and unrelated to the game    Figure 4. A coherent off-topic sequence  Figure 5. Deviant game with a cheating episode  Another exception is shown in Figure 5. In this active game, a player called The Cookie Monster was caught in an alleged act of cheating, although the nature of the cheat was somewhat ambiguous, and not all of the players saw it happen. A flurry of questions attempts to describe what happened, and accusations followed the initial incident. Predictably, after about 25 chat messages, a player attempted to restart game play the clock had been paused after the suspicious incident\t the restarted game soon encountered a glitch that led to another negotiation, and the same thing happened again shortly thereafter. In the meantime, the cheating incident continued to be discussed, culminating eventually in a string of apologies followed by some silly word play \(which seemed to be an expression of relief\ore game play resumed nearly 100 messages after the original incident This is an exception that proves the rule, in that when the normal pattern reactions to game play interspersed with brief exchanges was disrupted, a seProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


quence of redressive actions followed. Through it all other players attempted to preserve the implicit norm of chat exchanges no longer than 25 messages, and sought repeatedly \(and eventually, successfully\ to return to normal game play  6. Discussion  This study asked how actively users chat, with whom, about what, and how coherently, in one fastpaced FPS gaming environment. The hypotheses and the study s findings are summarized below H1: Messages will be short and abbreviated, moreso than in other modes of recreational chat Strongly supported H2: Participation in chat will be limited Not supported H3: Most messages will be on themes relating to game play Supported H4: Most chat messages will not respond to any other message, and most conversations will be short and fragmented, relative to other modes of recreational chat Partially supported. Stretches of one-off game reactions are periodically interspersed with more coherent, interactive sequences The findings that chat messages are short and abbreviated and that most chat concerns the game itself either as comments on events in the game or negotiation of gameplay reflect the temporal and attentional demands that the game makes on players. It seems that shooting tanks and chatting at the same time is not easy to do. As one long-time BZFlag player emailed to one of the authors I usually play while talking, and I usually get killed while I'm typing However, he went on to add For some reason it doesn't bother me too much - and I've found that the people I'm talking to sometimes get killed while typing too This comment underscores that chatting in BZFlag is an activity that may be enjoyed for social reasons, even when it interferes with effective game play  The social gratifications available through game chat may also explain why players chat publicly as much as they do, even though it gains them little advantage in the game. The player quoted above stated I find it a bit boring to play too much, but the one thing I've really enjoyed is the text chat. With the right people on a map, it can be hilarious  Sometimes hilarity emerges from the exchange of cryptic utterances, as in the example in Table 1. Sometimes one-off reactions to one s own game play \(Table 3\ be a sociable way to be alone together   And sometimes actual conversations take place, which although they tend to be limited in scope, can be engaging and unexpectedly coherent These findings reflect to some extent the specific game play features of BZFlag. One such feature is that when the need to stop game play arises, players must indicate this via the chat interface. For example, if a player wishes to bring another player into the game as a substitute, he announces his intention in the chat interface and asks the other participants to pause their game play. The game is paused when all participants cease ongoing hostilities and remain at their current position in the playing field. This feature provides an incentive for players to monitor the chat display more regularly than they might otherwise, lest they miss this important signal. Regular attention, in turn, helps to explain the relatively high degree of coherence some conversations in BZFlag chat achieve Another feature is that when a player is eliminated he is not removed for the duration of the remaining game; instead he respawns with a new tank. As a result of this, a player is constantly engaged in action and does not have an extended period of free time during which to communicate with his team, the opposition or observers of the game. In other FPSs \(e.g CounterStrike  America s Army yer death results in removal from game play for the remaining duration of the round. This puts a player in observer mode and allows him to view the rest of the match as a spectator, during which time he may engage in conversation with other spectators. The design of BZFlag thus leaves less time than other FPS games for chat, which may contribute to the abbreviated, task-focused character of chat in the game More generally, these differences could account for why our study found less social activity than some other studies of FPS ch e v e r, it is al s o  possible that our results are less different from theirs than they seem. What was coded as socioemotional  communication in other studies appears to be similar to what we coded as game play reactions see Table 3 If so, then the findings of studies of chat in FPSs are in fact quite consistent; taken together, they underscore the need to distinguish systematically between MMORPGs and FPSs in MOG chat research  7. Conclusions  7.1. Implications   In addition to providing evidence that supports a principled distinction between MMORPGs and FPSs which is important for game research, the present study contributes to a small but growing body of research Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


that seeks to understand and classify types of convergent media computer-mediated communication CMCMC\milar to other CMCMC such as comments posted to YouTube and Flickr and text messages sent from mobile phones to interactive television programs \(iTV SMS FP S ch at tak e s place in a v i sually engaging environment in which textual commenting/chat is secondary to the presentation of graphical content. In these environments, CMC consists mostly of one-off comments interspersed periodically with interactive exchanges, in which responses tend to reply to an immediately preceding message. FPS chat differs from other CMCMC, however, in that messages tend to focus on the stated purpose of the site \(the game\her than digressing onto other topics. Public chatting in BZFlag is also more interactive than comments posted to Flickr, YouTube, or iTV SMS. These differences can be attributed to the demanding nature of FPS game play and the smaller \(and thus more manageable\ber of participants in the game environment The study s findings have implications for multitasking research, as well. It has been claimed that the continuous partial attention required by multitasking causes errors due to insufficient attention [11 A c ti v i t y  interruption can also result in frustration and stress  In con t ras t th e BZF l a g res u lts  s ugg es t t h at f o r some users who chat while playing the game, the attention they allocate is largely sufficient for each task. For these successful multitaskers, factors such as youth and experience with the interface may favor success. For others, as suggested by the long-time player quoted above, the social benefits may outweigh the frustration and cost of making errors in game play indeed, a desire for social interaction may be what motivates BZFlag players to play and chat at the same time in the first place. These findings suggest perspectives that could be explored in research on multi-tasking in other, e.g., work, environments [11    7.2. Design recommendations   In a classic treatise on computer game design Crawfo u e d th a t un derl y i n g  techn i cal co n straints and possibilities strongly influence game play design and the resultant player experience. We suggest that the designed game environment also plays a role in shaping the quality and structure of chat discourse, and that chat usability, or chatability should be a design desideratum in MOGs, given that chatting is a major reason some online gamers play Past research suggests that persistent, reviewable text logs can promote interactional coherence in CMC 6 w e v e r, it see m s u n li k e l y th a t  m a k i n g B Z Fla g  chat more persistent would increase its coherence or usability, in that the pace of game play does not allow players to devote much attention to chat, regardless of how it is displayed or preserved 4  In FPSs, what is more important than textual persistence is the arrangement of the interface so as to optimize the efficient management of attention across multiple dynamic content areas. Research on multitasking suggests that gameplay and chat activity should be balanced so that one activity does not interrupt the other, to avoid frustration and stress T h e BZ F l a g  designers have attempted to do this: Chat is displayed next to the radar view, and both are immediately below the mousebox \(Figure 1\s players may keep the three most important areas in focal or peripheral vision at all times. However, the chat interface sometimes serves primarily as a peripheral information device; at those times, it would be helpful to minimize its distraction while maximizing its presentation of information  t oth e r ti m e s  t h e pres e n ce of co h e ren t continuous chat sequences suggests that the chat interface is the main locus of attention and would be better served by a more prominent representation. Enabling a player to toggle the chat interface between a peripheral and prominent state would be one possible solution to meet these variable needs Chat in BZFlag, like other multiparticipant CMC also suffers from disrupted adjacency of messages that are separated spatially from the messages to which they respon d co m m e n t s on  g a m e pla y are s p a tially and \(by the time they are posted\ temporally separated from the game play itself. To provide closer integration of these key activities and reduce the amount of attention shifting that players must do, chat messages could appear \(non-persistently\ above the tanks that posted them, as well as in the chat interface Finally, opportunities for communication without distraction in BZFlag are rare. If the designers of BZFlag wished to create an environment within the game that was conducive to socializing \(which, we argue, could increase the attractiveness of the game environment\hey could establish an area, such as a lobby, where players could congregate before and after games and chat in a more relaxed manner, without having to worry about their gameplay performance  7.3. Limitations and future research   This study examined public text chat in one league in one first-person shooter game. Team chat, private chat, and admin chat were not accessible, yet they are used to coordinate important activities, such as server   4 The BZFlag interface already gives players considerable control over the size of the chat window and the size of fonts, as well as allowing players to filter out different types of messages Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


maintenance and catching and sanctioning cheaters Moreover, game play and chat in the GU league differ from public server play, in that GU league play emphasizes teamwork and cooperation among players over individual prowess, whereas in public server play, individual differences in skill and the advantages of superflags can result in the appearance of unfair advantage, leading to taunting and complaining. These limitations could be addressed by analyzing a wider range of BZFlag activities and contexts Analysis of chat in other MOGs is also necessary in order to test the claim that chat differs systematically in MMORPGs and FPSs. Although the present study was limited to text chat, in-game voice chat is a growing trend in MOGs. Future research should analyze audio conversations, so as to determine the effects of modality on in-game chatting. Other methods, such as eye tracking, could also be used to investigate empirically how user attention is distributed dynamically across features of game interfaces Finally, the methods used in this study could be extended to non-gaming environments in which chat cooccurs with other media use. This would provide a broader comparative base from which to generalize about chat and chatability in coactive media  8. References  1 C h e r ny L  1999 Conversation and community: Chat in a virtual world Stanford, CA: CSLI 2 Crawf o r d  C. \(1 9 8 4   The art of computer game design  Berkeley, CA: Osborne/McGraw-Hill  Du ch en eau t N  M o o r e R  J 2 0 0 4   T h e so cial sid e o f  gaming: A study of interaction patterns in a massively multiplayer online game Proceedings of CSCW 2004 NY ACM  Du ch en eau t  N  Yee N  Nickell E   M o o r e R J  2006\. "Alone together?": exploring the social dynamics of massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 5 H a hs le r, M K o c h S. \(20 0 4  p e r a tio n a nd dis r uptive behaviour - Learning from a multi-player internet gaming community. In P. Kommers, P. Isaias, & M. B. Nunes Eds IADIS International Conference Web Based Communities 2004 pp. 35-42\ Lisbon: IADIS 6 Herrin g S. C  1 9 9 9 a  ter actio n a l co h e ren ce i n CMC  Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 4 1 http://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol4/issue1/herring.html 7 H e rring S. C  1 99 9b T h e rhe t oric a l dy nam i c s of  g e nde r harassment online The Information Society, 15 3\, 151-167 8 H e r r i ng S. C   200 3 D y nam i c topic a n a l y s is o f sy nchronous chat. In New Research for New Media: Innovative Research Methodologies Symposium Working Papers Minneapolis: U Minn School of Journalism and Mass Comm http://ella.slis.indiana.edu/~herring/dta.2003.pdf 9 H e rring S C K u r t z  A  J  20 06 V i s u a liz ing D y na m ic Topic Analysis Proceedings of CHI 06 NY: ACM  1 Ko K-K 19 96   S t ru ct u r al ch aracteristics o f co m p u t ermediated language: A comparative analysis of InterChange discourse Electronic Journal of Communication, 6 3 http://www.cios.org 11 L o je sk i, K S Re illy R  Dom i nic k P  2 00 7 u ltitasking and innovation in virtual teams Proceedings of HICSS-39 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 12  Ma g lio P P   Ca m pbe ll, C. S 2 0 00 T r a d e o ff s in displaying peripheral information Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems  New York: ACM 13 Ma n n i n e n T  K u ja np   T  2005 T h e hunt f o r c o llaborative war gaming - CASE: Battlefield 1942 Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research 5 1\ http://www.gamestudies.org/0501/manninen_kujanpaa 14 Ma rk G G udith, D  K l oc k e U  200 8 h e c o s t of  interrupted work: More speed and stress Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 15 N a rdi, B H a rris  J  2006 ng e r s a nd f r ie nds  Collaborative play in World of Warcraft Proceedings of CSCW 2006 pp. 149-158\ew York: ACM 16 N a rdi, B L y S H a rris   J  20 07 e a r ning c onv e r sations in World of Warcraft Proceedings of HICSS 40 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 17 O l de nb ur g  R   1 9 89  The great good place: Cafes coffee shops, bookstores, bars, hair salons and other hangouts at the heart of a community NY: Paragon Books 18  P e a J   H a nc oc k  J  T  20 06 A n a n a l y s is of s o cioemotional and task communication in online multiplayer video games Communication Research, 33 1\, 92-109 19  Ste i nk ue hle r  C 2 0 06 M a ssiv e l y  m u ltipla y e r online  videogaming as participation in a discourse Mind, Culture and Activity, 13 1\, 38-52 20 Ste i nk ue hle r C W illia m s D. \(200 6 h e r e e v e r y body knows your \(screen\me: Online games as "third places Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 11 4\://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol11/issue4/steinkuehler.html 21 W i k i pe dia  2 0 0 8  J une 15  Coactive media  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coactive_media 22 W r ig ht, T Boria  E Bre ide nba c h  P. \(20 02 Cre a tive player actions in FPS online video games: Playing Counter-Strike Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research, 2 2\ http://www.game studies.org/0202/wright 23  Ze le nk a u s k a ite A  H e rri ng S. C  2 00 8 T e le v i s i onmediated conversation: Coherence in Italian iTV SMS chat Proceedings of HICSS 41 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


 12 7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This research task started with an all-FORTRAN implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm converted it to C code, and developed a number of H W/SW systems on the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA The execution ti me of the all software C implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm was recorded and used for comparison as a base case Two software-based optimizations were applied that reduced the executi on time by more than 4.5x These included modifying the cod e to use all single-precision math library functions no n-ANSI when dealing with single-precision data and utilizi ng the IBM Performance Libraries  Perflib  to improve the speed of all single and double-precision arithmetic The idea of using a DP-only Perflib was introduced and then used in conjunction with the single-precision APU-FPU to fu rther improve system performance The bulk of the research dealt with looking into ha rdwarebased improvements to the FTIR spectrometry system  These included the Xilinx APU-FPU, and a single-pre cision dot-product co-processor The APU-FPU delivered significant speedup for all single-precision floati ng-point operations The dot-product co-processor although ineffective in the FTIR spectrometry system due to poor spatial locality of the data, showed nearly a 2x im provement over the APU-FPU when working with smaller, sequent ially accessed data sets Furthermore it was implemented  as a load/store-based APU-connected FCM thus establishin g a reference for creating similar APU co-processors T he design of a non-system-bused CPU-coupled co-process or is frequently overlooked in design guides yet it is a  very effective way to offload software routines to hardw are implementation The ML410 development board on which all of this w ork was conducted, hosts the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA contain ing two PPC405 processors This research task focused o n optimizing the performance of the FTIR spectrometry  algorithm on a single PPC405 core, however, the des ign can be extended to utilize both available cores. Figure 16 on the following page shows a dual-core design that can be  implemented on the ML410 board The two PPC405 processors each have dedicated PLB interfaces but s hare a common OPB. On the common OPB, the processors need to negotiate access to the RS232 UART and SystemACE CF  controller. This negotiation can be done through du al-ported shared BRAM accessible by each processor from thei r respective PLB. The ML410 board has two external me mory interfaces that are both utilized in this concept PPC405 CPU0 uses the DDR2 DIMM 256 Mbytes while PPC405 CPU1 utilizes the DDR on-board component memory 64  Mbytes\. Each of the processors has some dedicated on-chip memory OCM connected through OCM interface The instruction side OCM is particularly necessary so e ach processor can store its own boot code in its own on chip memory as booting both processors from external mem ory may not be possible Both processors have their own FPUs connected on dedicated FCB interfaces Since the processing of individual interferograms is a comple tely independent task an up to 2x reduction in executio n time may be possible with a dual-core system However o ne bottleneck that may limit the speedup is negotiatin g access to the shared CF card controller Additional improvement to the overall performance o f the FTIR spectrometry system may be possible by rewriti ng the software in C. The automatic conversion from FORTRA N to C using f2c most likely does not produce optimal code, and it is certainly not appealing to read Some functio ns may also need to be rewritten with an optimized pattern  of data access This can help in cases such as the dot-prod uct coprocessor Further performance improvement may be achieved by trying a different compiler one that is specifical ly targeted for the embedded PPC405 processor A V2P performanc e study done at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center concluded that using the WindRiver Diab DCC 5.2 com piler provides a 38 performance increase over the GNU-GC C 3.4 compiler The comparison was based on running a  Dhrystone benchmark application on a 400 MHz PPC405 design The GNU-GCC compiler achieved 458 DMIPS while the WindRiver Diab DCC achieved 628 DMIPS as  reported by Xilinx\ [10   Implementing additional hardware co-processors may result in the further reduction of execution time Using t he dotproduct design as a reference the FFT function fo r example can be implemented in the hardware This w ill help in the spectrum computation component of the s oftware processing. It may be necessary to re-arrange the d ata access pattern for optimal co-processor performance to av oid the pitfall seen when deploying the dot-product core Finally, no embedded processing system is complete without an OS. Linux is a good choice and is supported by X ilinx in EDK It is important to first finalize the hardware  design prior to deploying the OS Support for the APU may be lacking in Linux and getting the OS to recognize th e hardware FPU may be a project in itself For the FTIR spectrometry algorithm this research task started the process of moving from an all software system to a mixed HW/SW implementation on the V4FX60 hybridFPGA In the best case a more than 8x speedup was achieved compared to the FTIR base system This implementation, although nearly 2x faster the V2P s ystem at NASA JPL still lags behind the current state-of-th e-art space processor  the BAE RAD750 However the marg in between the two was narrowed down significantly and with further research as suggested above will most lik ely be eliminated altogether Directly benefiting from the  work presented in this paper is a 3-year JPL technology 


 13 development task that will support the MATMOS on-bo ard processing implementation for a future flight i nstrument   Fig. 16 Dual-core concept targeting ML410 development boar d 


 14 R EFERENCES  1  D L Bekker Hardware and Software Optimization of Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry on HybridFPGAs  MS Thesis Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY August 2007 Available http://hdl.handle.net/1850/4805  2  P J Pingree J.-F L Blavier G C Toon and D  L Bekker An FPGA/SoC Approach to On-Board Data Processing  Enabling New Mars Science with Smart Payloads in IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  Big Sky MT March 2007 Available http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?isnu mber=4 144550&arnumber=4161501  3  S I Feldman D M Gay M W Maimone and N L Schryer, “A Fortran-to-C Converter,” Computing Scie nce Technical Report 149, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murra y Hill NJ March 22 1995 Available http://www.netlib.org/f2c/f2c.pdf  4  IBM PowerPC Embedded Processor Performance Libraries tech rep IBM Microelectronics Divisi on Hopewell Junction, NY, December 12 2003 5  Virtex-4 Data Sheet: DC and Switching Characterist ics Datasheet DS302 Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 27 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/publications/ds302.pdf  6  ML410 Embedded Development Platform  Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 6 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug085.pdf  7  G Toon J.-F Blavier M McAuley and A Kiely Advanced On-Board Science Data Processing System for a Mars-orbiting FTIR Spectrometer R&TD Task 01STCR  R.05.023.048 NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena, CA, 2005 8  APU Floating-Point Unit v3.0 product specificati on Xilinx Inc San Jose CA January 26 2007 Availa ble http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/ipcenter/data_sheet/ap u_fp u.pdf  9  PowerPC 405 Processor Block Reference Guide Xilinx Inc San Jose CA July 20 2005 Available www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug018.pdf  10  D. Petrick, “Analyzing the Xilinx Virtex-II Pro Pow erPC with the Dhrystone Benchmark Applications,” tech. r ep NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt Maryland Available http://klabs.org/DEI/Processor/PowerPC/v2pro_ppc_pe rf ormance_petrick.doc  B IOGRAPHY  Dmitriy Bekker has just completed his Masters Degree in Computer Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His areas of interest include FPGAs embedded systems digital signal processing and system architecture. He has coop  internship experience working at Brookhaven National Laboratory Syracuse Research Corporation NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He recen tly won in the 2006 IEEE Student Design Contest for his pro ject in autonomous vehicle navigation. He is a member of IE EE Dr Lukowiak is an assistant professor in the Computer Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His research interests are concentrated in the area of multidisciplinary projects that require modeling and hardware implementations FPGA and ASIC of data processing systems Dr Marcin Lukowi ak obtained his Ph.D in Technical Sciences from the P oznan University of Technology in October 2001 Muhammad Shaaban is an associate professor of computer engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology His research interests include high performance computing processor microarchitecture heterogeneous and reconfigurable computing Shaaban has a PhD in Computer Engineering from the University of Souther n California. He is a senior member of the IEEE Dr. Blavier first joined the JPLMkIV Team in August 1985 as a contractor from Ball Aerospace He participated in the MkIV campaigns in McMurdo Antarctica groundbased and from Punta Arenas Chile NASA DC-8 In late 1987, he started graduate work with Profs Delbouille and Dubois at the University  of Liège Belgium his research tasks included install ing the 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


