An Information Hiding Algorithm Based on Blocks and Scrambling  Hong Peng School of Computer Science Technology SouthWest University of Science and Technology Mianyang, China penghong@swust.edu.cn YanBin Lin MianYang Vocational and Technical College Mianyang, China lyb_1997@163.com Yuanzhi Wang School of Computer and Information Anqing Normal College Anqing, China wangyuanhzhi1@sohu.com    Abstract There are low bit and high bit hiding algorithms in the spatial domain. The paper proposes a new algorithm. First divide the cover image into three-pixel blocks. Then, use Arnold transformation to scramble the secret image Eventually, modify the pixel values to hiding information according to the corresponding mode of size relations and numbers. The experimental results show that the algorithm realizes easily and has big hiding capacity, good security and invisibility. When the embedding rate is up to 98.8%, the peak signal to noise ratio PSNR is 002 38dB Keywords-information hiding; block; scrambling; chaos I   I NTRODUCTION  Information hiding is a technique that imperceptibly hides secret data into cover media. To realize the object that hiding secret information, the changes in the cover media shouldn’t arouse suspicion. In the spatial domain, LSB is a classical algorithm for good invisibility and easy realization but its robustness is bad. There are many algorithms to detect LSB, SPA and RS have good detection effect. In the high bit hiding, HSBH [1 hi d e s s e cr et i n for m a t i o n i n t h e four high bits and use chaos to improve security, but hiding capacity is small. The new spatial domain algorithm based on blocks is proposed in the paper and it hides secret information by modifying the size relation of the pixels in the block. The algorithm realizes easily and has good invisibility and hiding capacity II  P RINCIPLE OF ALGORITHM  Assume that there are three numbers b 1 001 b 2 and b 3  represent them respectively. There are nine size relations among three numbers. If two relations are merged into one there are eight relations corresponding to numbers 0 to 7 which also written as three bits .Table 1 shows the corresponding mode. In fact Table 1 shows only one of 40320 corresponding modes of the size relations and numbers. If modify the b 1 001 b 3 namely give value of b 2  subtract 1 or and add 1 to b 1 001 b 3 the size relation of three numbers will change According to the above principle, we divide the image into many three-pixel blocks and hide information by modifying the size relation of the three pixels in the block Because the differences of adjacent pixel values are small the change of the pixel value after modify the size relation is small which can not arouse the suspicion TABLE I   T HE CORRESPONDING MODE OF THE RELATIONS AND NUMBERS  The size relation Corresponding number Binary of the number b 1 002 b 2 002 b 3  0 000 b 1 002 b 2 002 b 3  1 001 b 1 002 b 2 002 b 3  2 010 b 1 002 b 2 002 b 3  3 011 b 1 002 b 2 002 b 3  4 100 b 1 002 b 2 002 b 3  5 101 b 1 002 b 2 002 b 3  6 110 b 1 002 b 2 0011 b 3  7 111 III  P REPARE Y OUR P APER B EFORE S TYLING  Arnold transformation [2 i s a  m e t hod prop o s e d i n  t h e research of argotic theory by V. I. Arnold. According to difference of phase space, Arnold Transformation can be divided into two, three to N dimensions. Arnold transformation of two dimensions is used in the algorithm proposed in the paper. For N  N square image, Arnold transformation of two dimensions is defined as follows \(1   1   1 mod  1   2 xx N y y 000ª\000 000ª\000º\000ª\000  000«\000 000«\000»\000«\000 000¬\000¼\000¬\000 000¬\000 1 TABLE II  T HE PERIOD OF A RNOLD TRANSFORMATION TN N T N  64 48 90 60 128 96 180 60 Where x  y 001\031 0,1,2 N 1}.And x  y  x   y  enote the coordinates of pixels in the image matrix before and after Arnold transformation. After giving all pixel values in \(x y  to the x   y  image is scrambled. Pay attention to that Arnold transformation has periodicity, so the original image 
2009 International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence 978-0-7695-3615-6/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/JCAI.2009.198 327 


will recover after certain times transformation. Dyson and Falk improved that for N 2, the period of Arnold transformation T N  N 2 2.Table 2 show T N  when N takes four numbers Arnold transformation is used as image pre-processing in the paper. In the extraction process, we can recover the secret image if the key of scrambling times is given IV  A LGORITHM OF EMBEDDING AND EXTRACTION  A  Embedding process Define abbreviations and acronyms the first time they are used in the text, even after they have been defined in the abstract. Abbreviations such as IEEE, SI, MKS, CGS, sc, dc and rms do not have to be defined. Do not use abbreviations in the title or heads unless they are unavoidable   Divide M1×N1 cover image into many 1×3 blocks B i  j denote the blocks, where 1 i M 1 1 j  1 3 N  b  i  j 1\×3+1 b  i  j 1\3+2\and b  i   j 1\×3+3\present the first, second and third pixel value in the block B i  j respectively   Scramble the M 2 N 2 secret image based on Arnold transformation. If M 2 N 2, scramble the left square in the image n times, then scramble the right square n times. Similarly, if M 2 N 2, scramble the upper square in the image n times, then scramble the lower square to n times. If M 2 N 2, scramble the image n  times. The scrambling times n is the secret key   Convert the pixel values of scrambling secret image into binary. Then divide the secret bits into three-bit blocks. If the secret bits is not divisible by 3, make the secret bits divided by 3 exactly by add one bit or two bits   Change pixel values of the cover image according the corresponding mode in the Table 1 to hide secret blocks. We illustrate the embedding process by hiding 000 for example if            secret block is 000 if b  i  j 1\×3+1 b  i  j 1\+2 b  i  j 1\×3+3 b  i  j 1\×3+3 b  i  j 1\3+2\1  else if b  i  j 1\×3+1 b  i  j 1\+2 b  i  j 1\×3+3 b  i  j 1\×3+1 b  i  j 1\3+2  else if b  i  j 1\×3+1 b  i  j 1\+2 b  i  j 1\×3+3 b  i  j 1\×3+1 b  i  j 1\3+2  b  i  j 1\×3+3 b  i  j 1\3+2\1     Check the values of b  i  j 1\3+1 b  i  j 1\×3+3 if the value equal to -1,add 1 to the three pixel values in the block, if the value equal to 256,subtract 1 to the three pixel values in the block. So pixel values keep in the interval 0 to 255 B  Extraction process   Divide the stego-image into three-pixel blocks, then extract the secret bits according to the size relation of three pixels and the corresponding mode in the Table I   Convert the secret bits into decimal base   Make n times anti-Arnold transformation for the image in order to recover the secret image C  Embedding algorithm When the secret information is less than the hiding capacity, we can use randomly scattered algorithm [3   whose principle is that randomly scatter the secret information to the cover image according to the chaos sequence. Because of the randomness and initial value sensitivity of the chaos sequence, the chaos sequence has good cryptographic property. So the receiver can’t extract secret information exactly unless he knows the key. And randomly scattered algorithm is better than the sequentially embedding algorithm in the hiding effect and the security Logistic map[4-5 is  on e of  t h e m o s t c l as s i cal ch ao tic  maps, whose definition is \(2  1 1 nnn x xx    2 If 3.5699 4, Logistic is in the chaotic state of the interval \(0 1\, and iterative sequence has characteristics including non-convergence, non-periodic and initial value sensitivity. The research shows that Logistic chaotic sequence has larger probability density in 0 and 1 and the probability density is symmetric on 1/2 The interval of embedding information d is determined by chaotic sequence. If the value of chaotic sequence x 0.5 d 1. If the value of chaotic sequence d 0.5 d  t  t 1\.According to the characteristics of the chaotic sequence, the probability density of d 1 and d  t is equal. So 2 1 t  blocks of the cover image can be used to hide information, namely the hiding capacity is 21 1 13 N M t   Because the blocks used for embedding secret data must less than the hiding capacity of the cover image, namely 228 2 1 1 313 M NN M t       we can get the formula that 1 1 3 21 228 3 N M t MN      The value of t in the algorithm is as equation \(3 1 1 3 21 228 3 N M t MN     3 
328 


Because if t is much larger, the hiding capacity of the cover image is less than the secret information, and if t is much smaller, the secret information can’t scattered in the larger domain of the cover image When t 1, it is sequentially embedding algorithm. So we can take sequentially embedding algorithm as the special case of randomly scattered algorithm. Add a step to the embedding step 3 and 4.The step is that calculates t  according to equation \(3\ determine the embedding interval t or 1 according to the chaotic sequence. After adding this step, not only the secret image can scattered in the whole cover image, but also the chaotic sequent has secret key effect if t is not equal to 1 V  E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS  The experiments were made by matlab7.1.we chose 512×512 lena greyscale test image as the cover image and 128×128 greyscale image as the secret image.Fig.1 show there is nearly no difference at vision between the original cover image and the stego-image   a\over image     \(b\cret image   c\ Stego-iamge     \(d\ Extracted image Figure 1  Experimental images A  Security analysis The algorithm uses two keys. One is the times of scrambling the cover image; the other is initial value of chaotic sequence. If the initial value x 0 0.8, we extract the secret image by taking x 0  14 0.8 0 01 x 0  15 0.7 9 9 In spit of the difference is very small, we can’t extract the secret image. Fig.2 show the images extracted by different x 0   So the chaotic sequence advances the security. Attackers can’t extract the exact information if they don’t know key When t 1, the key of initial value has no effect. But attackers still can not extract information if they don’t have key n     a\                   \(b\                       \(c Figure 2  Figure 2. Images extracted when x0 equal 0.8 14 0.8 0 01 15 0.7 9 9 respectively B  Invisibility In order to judge the invisibility of the algorithm, we calculate the peak signal to noise ratio PSNR by embedding different secret information. Table 2 shows the PSNR for different embedding rates. Usually, people can not feel the difference in the images if PSNR 36 dB. So Table 2 illustrates the algorithm has good invisibility TABLE III   PSNR FOR DIFFERENT EMBEDDING RATES  Embedding rate 12.5 24.72 50 98.88 PSNR 56.185 51.200 43.5544 38.8655 VI  C ONCLUSIONS  A new algorithm is proposed based on researching the spatial domain hiding algorithms in the paper. The algorithm based on the characteristic that the differences of adjacent pixel values are small and uses the size relation of pixels to hide information Experimental results show that the algorithm realizes easily and has big hiding capacity, good invisibility. In addition, the security of the algorithm is improved because of using chaotic sequence and scrambling R EFERENCES  1  Yu X Y, X S and Zhang J 2007 A new method of information highbit hiding based on chaos J. Chinese Journal of Electron Devices 30 1677-1680 2  Ding W, Yan W Q and Qi D X 2001 Digital Image Scrambling Technology Based on Arnold Transformation J. JOURNAL OF COMPUTER-AIDED DESIGN &COMPUTER GRAPHICS. 13 338-341 3  Luo X Y, Lu P Z and Liu F L 2007 A Dynamic Compensation LSB Steganography Method Defeating SPA J. CHINESE JOURNAL OF COMPUTER 30 463-473 4  Nadarajah, Saralees; Gupta, Arjun K 2006 On the ratio of logistic random variables J. Computational  Statistics and Data Analysis 50 1206-19 5  SCHUSTER H G. 1988 Deterministic chaos: An introduction Second revised edition\ M. Berlin: Physik_Verlag    
329 


Data Collection. In the letter of invitation to prospective participants from the private sector, we Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 verbally and graphically \(see figure 1 concepts of business-to-consumer \(B2C business \(B2B B2G to-employee \(B2E efficiency \(IEE G2C, G2B, G2G, and government-to-employee \(G2E well as IEE \(see also figure 1 prospective participants from the public sector Intentionally, we framed and pre-structured the discussion in that way for systematic comparability. We continue to believe that this framing and pre-structuring would not hamper the expert discussion in any way, on the contrary For all six groups we introduced the two dimensions of informational? and ?transactional  Figure 1 Relationships in e-Government and e-Commerce  The six focus groups were conducted in pairs. They were organized as half-day focus group discussions with the selected participants, first with the private sector participants, the next day with the public sector participants. The moderator first introduced the focus group format to the participants; she then re-introduced the e-Commerce and e-Government concepts as already outlined in the invitation letters. She explained to participants that the first session would be dedicated to the ?informational? aspects of the five concepts followed by a second session on the ?transactional? aspects. Prior to each session, participants were asked to prepare and write down discussion points for each concept as far as those applied to their projects and experience. The moderator then launched the focus group discussion with an opening question and facilitated the discussion, while three observers took notes and administered the audio recording 22]. The audio tracks were transcribed yielding over 320 pages of transcripts. Also, over 130 pages of notes were taken Data Analysis. In this study we mainly used Strauss and Corbin coding methodology [34]. In four passes, the transcripts and emerging concepts were analyzed. First the four researchers independently read the transcripts identifying units of data. Our impression from the collection exercise was confirmed during this phase that we had in fact managed to collect rich and high-quality data in all four sessions. In the second pass, the two researchers read the transcripts again and consolidated the units of data. In an open coding process [34], each unit of data was then assigned to a preliminary category or subcategory whose dimensions and properties were developed from the data. New categories and subcategories were introduced, in case existing categories did not apply [13]. Convergence and assignment of categories, which the two researchers had identified independently, was performed at each step of the data analysis. In a subsequent pass, an axial coding process was applied, during which the converged categories/clusters and subcategories \(emphasized in small capitals below inherent structures and processes leading to paradigms whose internal relationships were identified wherever possible [34]. In the final pass, a selective coding process was performed, in which the resulting concepts and theories were related to each other. Surprisingly, the categories/clusters developed for e-Government by and large also emerged for the e-Commerce data analysis allowing for relatively straightforward linkage of the concepts found in the two sectors 4. Findings 


4. Findings In this section, we present our findings for five of a total of eleven main categories or clusters of themes which we were able to identify from the data. For space limitations, we decided to confine ourselves to presenting findings and analyses for five interconnected clusters These five clusters, however, we found central to the understanding of similarities and dissimilarities in eCommerce and e-Government. The five clusters comprise a 2 3 citizen/customer focus, \(4 5 the digital divide. For each cluster, we analyze the major elements/themes and their internal and external relations as well as their relative importance, which enables us to develop and present testable propositions, which we will Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 use in the next phase of this research project. We highlight the major elements and themes in each category/cluster by using Small Capitals 4.1 Process Management Process Streamlining and Process Integration While initial applications would mostly only mimic existing processes electronically \(?manumation workflows have been created and processes have been redesigned \(?business process &lt;re-&gt;design recent projects, which help exploit the new technological capabilities according to the practitioner experts in both eCommerce and e-Government. In both sectors it was said improved internal and external service quality, process speed-ups, and consistent performance of transaction processing were among major driving forces for process redesign and creation of new workflows. Also, the desire to achieve or improve vertical and horizontal process Integration and alignment along with fostering the interoperation between information systems of collaborating institutional partners were among the major drivers for introducing e-Commerce information systems ECIS experts said was still hampered because systems and processes were not aligned well enough. Also, not all transactions could be performed completely electronically due to media breaks or legal requirements. This leads to the following proposition Proposition #01:  ECIS and EGIS are more effective when processes are streamlined and new workflows introduced Proposition #02: Organizations in both the public and private sector increasingly engage in redesigning existing processes and create new workflows to make better use of the potential of ECIS and EGIS Electronic Transaction Processing as Foundation of Business Strategy Both ECIS and EGIS provide for high volumes of electronically processed transactions in a cost-effective speedy, and reliable fashion. With the exception of the highly ECIS/EGIS-enabled procurement process most transactions in government transaction processing were found to be government internal. Transactions involving citizens were still fragmented according to the practitioners. However, compared with government in the private sector, transaction volumes appeared to be much higher. In e-Commerce, transactions were monitored in real time for problem detection, inventory adjustments and capacity planning. Moreover, historical transactional records were extensively used for market research purposes, pinpointing and profiling highest value customers, brand development, and general strategy development in e-Commerce. Overall, in the data from our sample, electronic transaction processing was found far more sophisticated and far more geared towards directing swift action or reaction in the private sector than 


in government allowing for high organizational agility in e-Commerce. This leads us to propose Proposition #03: Transaction processing is more sophisticated and proliferated in e-Commerce than in eGovernment Proposition #04:  Innovative transaction processing methods are more likely found in e-Commerce than in eGovernment Proposition #05:  Historical data from transaction processing are more frequently analyzed and used for strategy development in e-Commerce than in eGovernment Alignment and Collaboration Experts of both sectors emphasized the increased opportunity for and engagement in institutional COLLABORATION via ECIS and EGIS. In government inter-agency and inter-municipal \(also referred to as government-to-government, or G2G found to be motivated through citizen and business demand as well as through expected economies of scale and scope. However, inter-governmental collaboration struggles with the complexity of multiple legal and regulatory processes as well as with different governance structures, agency sizes, and technology sophistication Creating a supportive culture for collaboration strongly depends on conducive personal relationships between the decision makers of the collaborating entities it was said Also, according to the practitioners voluntary intergovernmental collaboration was found more effective than imposed collaboration. Partners of similar organizational sizes and governance structure appear to collaborate more easily than partners with different organizational sizes and governance structure. The practitioners declared essential to its success the development of a formal governance structure for the collaboration. Collaboration and alignment were hampered when collaboration partners lacked a shared vision and a common strategy. Finally, formal agreements regarding the governance of collaborative efforts were found essential to the effectiveness and sustainability of  a continued collaborative relationship between G2G partners Proposition #06: Organizations in both the public and private sector increasingly engage in aligning and integrating processes and workflows to improve collaboration and interoperation Proposition #07: G2G collaboration is more effective between organizations of similar size and similar governance structure than between organizations of dissimilar size and dissimilar governance structure Proposition #08: Governmental organizations that align and integrate business processes for the sake of collaboration also tend to align their strategic priorities Proposition #09: G2G collaboration is more effective on the basis of voluntary participation rather than on the imposition of collaboration Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 In government-to-business \(G2B government \(B2G STRATEGIC PRIORITIES was found essential. Yet STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS prevented G2B/B2G collaboration in many cases, in part because the government internal process could not always be digitized,? or the difference in transaction speeds in the two sectors. Still, the process and cost improvements were said to be so substantial that the collaboration was justifiable. For that reason, in many G2B/B2G collaborative projects, the private sector partner took on the burden of developing, maintaining, and troubleshooting a collaborative G2B EGIS. Like in G2G collaboration, so in G2G/B2G collaboration, formal 


collaboration, so in G2G/B2G collaboration, formal agreements governing the collaborative effort were found essential to their effectiveness and sustainability Proposition #10: G2G as well as G2B/B2G collaboration is more effective on the basis of formal agreements than without formal agreements that govern the collaborative effort Proposition #11 G2B/B2G collaboration reduces cost, overhead, and transaction completion time for both sides 4.2 Information Management Information Quality as a Key Factor In the pilot study INFORMATION QUALITY \(IQ not surfaced as strongly as an important building block and key factor of information management as it did in the main part of this study. Of the major IQ dimensions of \(1 accuracy, \(2 3 4 cognitive authority, \(5 6 relevance/precision/recall, \(7 8 perceived value [21], six were mentioned repeatedly in both sectors as key factors of information management and information sharing \(accuracy, comprehensiveness currency, authority, timeliness, and perceived value Access to information of high quality along those lines was portrayed as crucial to the success of e-projects in both government and commerce. However, with the introduction of EGIS in government as well as ECIS in commerce a tendency towards INFORMATION OVERLOAD has also been detected. In e-Commerce, most information appears to originate from or relate to in-house transactional data sources. Those data were found to be more refined and more ready for mining than in government Proposition #12: The higher the information quality the more effective is information management in both eCommerce and e-Government Proposition #13: Lower information quality affects eCommerce more negatively than e-Government Proposition #14: Maintaining acceptable levels of information quality is more challenging in e-Government than in e-Commerce due to the higher volume of information in government Information Sharing In government, which appears as more information rich than the private sector, insufficient IQ, non-reliable EGIS, incompatibilities, and lack of information integration it was said frequently still hampered the sharing of information. High accessibility, sufficient performance, and high IQ were identified as major FACILITATORS of information sharing in both sectors Furthermore, electronically stored information it was said would be and actually is instantly sharable. Many government agencies put much effort into better information integration for the purpose of sharing Dawes? earlier observation that higher quality information is more readily sought and used [9] we found was strongly supported in the data. The e-Commerce practitioners also mentioned the high value of maintaining historical data on B2B relationships. They also emphasized that ECIS need to be scalable to store, access and retrieve information at any time and any place. The mining and sharing of huge volumes of transactional data in the private sector the experts reported is tightly monitored and controlled through strict hierarchies of access privileges Proposition #15: In both e-Commerce and eGovernment inter-organizational sharing of information is increasing, leading to more information integration between the partners Proposition #16: The higher the perceived IQ of shared information the more information sharing occurs in both sectors 


in both sectors Proposition #17: The more information shared the stronger grows the relationship among partners Content Management Even more than in commerce, website content management was found to pose a major challenge in government. Quite a few participants pointed out that government agencies were lacking a sound STRATEGY for the management of content. The experts referred to the growing complexity of public web content along with government?s obligation to make public information publicly and reliably available. Government agencies obviously try to strike a balance between citizens? need for information and the extent of government services to provide that information electronically. Document Life Management, the management of document flows, as well as the proper ARCHIVING of electronic records and removed web content along with previous versions of websites were mentioned repeatedly as major challenges in e-Government content management. Frequently mentioned was also the lack of web content in languages other than English. While web content management in eCommerce was also reported to be a major challenge, it seemingly had a lower degree of complexity and urgency in part because the legal requirements in this area were far less demanding. In e-Commerce, customer profiles and transactions in progress were enabled to trigger the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 presentation of select content, and content was found to lead into certain types of transactions with certain groups of potential customers. On basis of mining transactional data and maintaining very detailed customer profiles eCommerce organizations it was found had developed a HIGH SOPHISTICATION in fine-grained market and customer targeting. Structured transactional data and nonstructured content was reported to be increasingly joined in ways that sophisticated searches had become possible yielding a plethora of relevant information to identify new marketing opportunities. Also, customer relationship management \(CRM customers to keep their profiles updated such that more targeted approaches with pinpoint accuracy could be performed Proposition #18: Content management is more challenging in government than in the private sector due to volume of information and complexity of linked content 4.3 Stakeholders Relations Additional thematic analysis did not yield additional major concepts than previously reached in pilot. This demonstrates that the cluster is reaching a maturity stage in terms of developing a theory. Three areas needing attention appeared in e-Government: i collaboration and iii to E-Commerce, which mainly emphasized DIVERSITY OF STAKEHOLDERS only Governance in E-Government Relations The governance narrative reflected an ongoing concern in the e-Government side regarding management and CONTROL OF GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE. This appeared particularly important due to a clear border between elected officials and nominated professional staff. While POLITICAL SWINGS may help projects keep going, they may also require more explanations from the professional levels about the rationale of EGIS projects and the ways to measure their effectiveness [32] The importance of governance was also reflected through emphasizing POWER STRUGGLEs among different stakeholders to achieve their particular interests and the fear of stakeholders from losing control Proposition #19: Stakeholders governance structure 


Proposition #19: Stakeholders governance structure influences ECIS and EGIS design and deliverables Proposition #20: The process of convincing topleadership to support an EGIS project is harder than in private sector Diversity of Stakeholders This ties up nicely to the next narrative, diversity of stakeholders. To achieve a stable and balanced governance structure one needs to balance relationships among different types of stakeholders, elected and nominated officials, political and professional staff, and federal and local stakeholders. This objective becomes even harder when the boundaries of the system are rigidly fixed for a long period, most of the professional staff retains, the needs are vast and the interests are quite different from each other, pulling into different directions 12, 24]. For example, participants reported the fear to partner with ?a too big city?, and to create dependency on their resources and governance structure. Diversity appeared as a critical issue also for the e-Commerce sector due to shaky, temporary and unstable partnership structures. TRANSACTION-DRIVEN PARTNERSHIPS is the main reason for these weak partnership structures. When value of transaction determines the partnership, ad-hoc coalitions appear with different sizes, resources and political power. While partnerships of these sorts help to cover weaknesses of partners, they also make it harder to find a common denominator in shared set of goals Consequently, this increases the fear of partners, that the partnership can be unbundled at any given moment Proposition #21: The structure of alliances in eCommerce is weaker than the structure of alliances in eGovernment Collaboration as a Critical Component of EGovernment Finally COLLABORATION and INVOLVEMENT of stakeholders in the process were regarded as of highest importance in the e-Government sector. Collaboration was a necessity of many governmental entities, due to diversity of stakeholders and the need of scaling resources to better serve citizens. For example, while small cities benefited from array of information systems offered to them by bigger cities, bigger cities benefited from such collaborations by providing a better service to citizens reducing the cost of EGIS and provide a more standardize structure and control of process Proposition #22:  Government stakeholders tend to collaborate on mid-to-long terms while stakeholders in the private sector tend to collaborate on short-to-mid terms 4.4 Citizen/Customer Focus Citizen/Customer Needs CITIZEN/CUSTOMER NEEDS define much of the way processes and deliverables of technologies are designed both in e-Governement and e-Commerce. Nevertheless there is a big difference in the way these needs are being regarded and the reason for understanding them. The pilot highlighted the robust process B2C implements to deliver a product or a service: understand CUSTOMER NEEDS through mechanisms of surveys and TRACKING behavior gathering this information makes it possible for companies to focus on HIGH VALUE CUSTOMERS and to TARGET SEGMENTS OF CUSTOMERS according to personal characteristics; creating TAILORED BRANDS and services to these particular segments of population; finally, since needs are DYNAMIC, companies have to repeat this process. The main goal of the above illustrated process is to target customers according to their needs and lock them in with the service/product these companies suggest Needs serve in B2C as an instrumental good since is they Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


6 are valued because they lead to something else, a bottomline result, while for G2C needs of citizens serve as an intrinsic good, that is they are valued for their own sake In G2C needs evolved around the desire and obligation to serve these, for example through providing MORE SERVICE ON THE WEB, and a ONE STOP SHOP, one locus addressing and serving citizens needs. The technology in this case serves as the instrumental value to reach a better level of service to more people and to enhance consistency of content toward a CITIZEN-CENTRIC APPROACH. A concern raised in this context was that citizens are unaware that eGovernment services exist or consider them not to be on a high-level standard like the ones belong to the private sector Proposition #23: In both the private and public sectors designing information systems is highly influenced by customer needs, or citizens? needs respectively Proposition #24: Targeting customers via identifying individuals or groups is more sophisticated and frequent in e-Commerce than targeting citizens in e-Government Creating a Strong Customer Experience The other side of the coin of revealing the customer needs in B2C is creating these needs through shaping the CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE. While traditionally marketing were the one mainly interested in the customer experience perspective, recently other departments including R&amp;D joined in shaping and creating this experience. Companies understand that the experience determines much of the transaction or future activities of customers. Experience is a complex concept and companies try to reduce uncertain part from their point of view, the part that they cannot influence in the customer experience. Some aspects might be controllable by the companies, e.g. creating a SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT, enhancing an EASY and CUSTOMIZED online experience, and partially learning how to work with customer EMOTIONS effectively through the technology. There are some aspects that can be analyzed but less transformative, for example the CORE VALUES a customer assigns to an experience. An important note is that this issue was not found and raised in the eGovernment focus groups discussions Proposition #25: Creating and understanding a customer experience is more likely to be found in eCommerce than creating and understanding a citizen experience in e-Government Proposition #26: The higher the enhancement of the social environment of the customer, the more likely it is that the experience will be stronger Citizen Participation Understanding needs and evolving experience is a different matter than involving the customers in the process of developing a product or a service. Involving customers is reported to be prevalent in Web 2.0 applications [7, 37] but according to our findings, which involved other B2C interactions, it was totally ignored On the other hand e-Government assigns citizen participation in the process a high weight and importance Nevertheless, they make sure that the border between participation and control is not blurred. In other words G2C encourages PARTICIPATION in the decision making but not shifting the decision to the citizens Proposition #27:  Participation of citizens in G2C processes and in the design of EGIS is higher than participation of customers in B2C and ECIS, respectively 4.5 Digital Divide/s Similarly to first pilot conducted, we found that the cluster of digital divide was very minor to non-existent in terms of weight it was given by e-Commerce focus group while it served a big portion of the attention in their counterparts from the e-Government sector. The public 


sector is well aware to this issue and defines it through levels, first and second levels digital divide/s [3]. The first level of digital divide/s focuses on lack of infrastructure private and public and more generally it deals with ACCESS from a technological point of view. The secondlevel of digital divide/s refers mainly to the usage level From the users/citizen point of view it includes the lack of SKILLS or AWARENESS as to how to use information communications technologies effectively and efficiently From the government point of view it focuses on how to make content ACCESSIBLE \(e.g., content that would be accessible by people with disabilities challenge of accessibility from a LANGUAGE perspective that is not yet implemented. The pilot manifested that eGovernment is more focused on the second-level of digital divide/s, that is more on the content, than the traditional one E-Commerce marginalizes and neglects the concept of digital divide/s. It is of less importance to this sector since the drivers are transactions. For example localization of content will occur if a market exists and there is a demand from consumers. The concept itself implies a certain criterion of social responsibility, which contemporarily many companies like to brag about. This pilot demonstrates that words are nice but they are not applied necessarily in the interactions of companies and consumers. It emphasized differences in justifications to the existence of e-commerce vs. e-Government entities business and economic sustainability vs. service and executing policy. Digital divide/s is a ?nice to have concept to e-Commerce and is a top-priority challenge to e-Government Proposition #28: Addressing the challenges of the digital divide/s is more likely to be found in eGovernment than in e-Commerce Proposition #29: Addressing second-level digital divide/s takes more attention in EGIS projects than firstlevel digital divide/s 4.6 Discussion and Summary We set out to investigate, identify, and characterize the similarities and differences between e-Commerce and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 e-Government since we believed that the findings from such a study would benefit academic knowledge and eCommerce and e-Government practice alike. In the following we discuss and summarize our observations and insights Similarities between e-Commerce and e-Government research question #1 According to our findings both ECIS and EGIS benefit their respective organizations significantly more when the underlying workflows and processes are not only electronic re-embodiments of their paper-based antecedents but rather streamlined, simplified, or completely discarded and replaced by different workflows and processes, which take full advantage of the technology. This seems to be increasingly understood in both commerce and government. We also found completely new workflows in both sectors, which would not have been possible without ECIS and EGIS A great incentive for streamlining and redesigning workflows and processes we found in the increased degree of collaboration within and between the sectors which has become possible in an instantaneous fashion through ECIS and EGIS We further found that collaboration between partners within and across sectors works better when it unfolds on the basis of formal agreements. In government, it was noted that imposed collaboration works poorly as opposed to collaborative engagements based on freedom of choice Interestingly, cross-sector collaboration based on 


Interestingly, cross-sector collaboration based on ECIS/EGIS reduces cost and speeds up the process on both ends even if the private-sector partner provides systems, infrastructure, and maintenance Along with transactional collaboration and integration we found increasing collaboration within and across sectors also in the area of information sharing. If collaboration thrives, we saw even the partial alignment of strategic objectives as a result. Information quality played a critical role in this context. A positive feedback between perceived IQ, information sharing, and the strength of the relationship seemed to exist We found in both sectors that similar governance structures of organizations influenced how collaborative ECIS and EGIS were designed. Remarkably, in both sectors the perceived needs of citizens \(and customers respectively sytems. In e-Commerce, organizations were interested in providing a social environment, which was conducive to a positive experience as a customer These findings suggest that ECIS/EGIS-related phenomena have important characteristics in common which go beyond the mere technical resemblance of systems and methods. Process redesign practices might be a worthwhile subject of further study. Likewise, practices and principles of organizational and technical collaboration appear to provide valuable experiences to be shared Differences between e-Commerce and e-Government research question #2 However, we also found formidable differences in practices, principles, and drivers between e-Commerce and e-Government Transaction processing was found more sophisticated and of far higher volume in commerce than in government. On the other hand, information processing and management, including the archiving of electronic records we found much more developed in the public sector than with private firms. The drivers of innovation were stronger in e-Commerce than in a e-Government however, the overall sophistication of EGIS did not appear to lag behind ECIS by orders of magnitude. Yet private sector firms were found to make far more elaborate use of historical data and data in processing in order to optimize desired organizational outcomes than government agencies. Lower information quality was also found to lead to more immediate and economically more negative effects in e-Commerce than in e-Government Still, governments struggled more than commercial organizations to maintain acceptable levels of information quality leading to far greater challenges, for example, in content management Interestingly, leadership in government appeared to be more supportive of \(in particular, collaborative projects than their commercial counterparts. It also appeared that collaborative structures in the public sector were markedly stronger than those in the private sector Although many EGIS initiatives seemingly greatly cared about citizens? involvement and participation, we found that private firms had an edge in creating a customer experience.? Almost in contradiction to this finding, we noticed that citizens were far more influential in the design of EGIS than customers were in the design of ECIS. At this point, we refrain from speculative explanations for the lack of a sufficiently large base of data Overall, what we found different between eCommerce and e-Government suggests that the two phenomena follow different trajectories despite many similarities and technical commonalities. One obvious explanation lies in the sector-specific differences, which produce different drivers also in this area. It will be 


produce different drivers also in this area. It will be interesting to analyze to what extent Enterprise  Resource Planning \(ERP introduced in government, may help align the trajectories between e-Commerce and e-Government to a higher degree than we found in this study Surprise Findings The process of involving diverse participants and the rich data that evolved from the focus groups illuminated few important phenomena, which need to be discussed One strident finding is the absence of discussion or reference to the issue of ethics both in the e-Government and e-Commerce focus groups. A whole array of clusters Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 emerging from the discussions \(e.g., information management and digital divide not raise any challenges or concerns related to normative decisions of right and wrong. The prevalence of information technologies and usage involves many questions of ethics. Managers gathering and analyzing personal and sensitive information on customers government officials deciding to implement information systems according to political constraints, and accuracy and level of information quality provided to customers and citizens are few examples of the inter-linkage between ethics and e-Government and e-Commerce Striping decisions and strategy from a system of values and norms may be more easy and beneficial in the short horizon, but in the long run may cause inherent difficulties in managing e-government or e-commerce initiatives Another problematic phenomenon we found is the disregard of issues of digital divide/s by the private sector The public sector makes many efforts to understand and address needs of diverse groups in society. EGIS hels the public sector to reach growing portions of the population more efficiently and effectively, through for example providing information in different languages or making information more accessible to populations with disabilities. The private sector, on the other hand, may address indirectly issues of digital divide/s, including issues of access and usage, but only if economic profitability is attached to these needs. Digital divide/s was not raised in the private sector as a concept, because it is not addressed directly, but as a by-product of other initiatives Limitations and future research In our samples of participants from the two sectors we found after the focus groups were conducted that eGovernment experts on average were from higher levels in the organizational hierarchy than e-Commerce practitioners who were more technically oriented and versed. Our results, hence, may be skewed that they represent more strategic perspectives in e-Government and more operational/tactical perspectives in eCommerce We also recognize that what we present here is the result of an exploratory study based on a limited number of participants. Our study attempts to lay theoretical foundations for more quantitatively oriented research on the subject, which will lead us to more generalizable results. We plan to use the twenty-nine propositions developed here in a successive study aimed at closing that gap 5. Acknowledgement We are indebted to our two graduate students Tim Carlson from the Master of Science in Information Management \(MSIM doctoral program who helped us prepare for and conduct this research 6. References 


6. References  1] R. N. Anthony, Planning and Control Systems; a Framework for Analysis. Boston: Division of Research Graduate School of Business Administration, Harvard University, 1965 2] S. Arthur and J. Nazroo, "Designing Fieldwork Strategies and Materials," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J. Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London; Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 109-137 3] K. Barzilai-Nahon, "Gaps and Bits: Conceptualizing Measurements for Digital Divide/S," The Information Society, vol. 22, pp. 10, 2006 4] K. Barzilai-Nahon and H. J. Scholl, "Similarities and Differences of e-Commerce and e-Government: Insights from a Pilot Study," in 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS40 Ed. Waikoloa/Big Island, HI: IEEE, 2007, pp. 92c\(1-10 5] B. Bozeman, " Exploring the Limits of Public and Private Sectors: Sector Boundaries as Maginot Line.," Public Administration Review, vol. 48, pp. 672-674, 1988 6] Y.-P. Chang and J. Yan, "Positioning in a New Dynamic ECommerce Business Model," in 3rd International Conference on Wireless Communications, Networking and Mobile Computing \(WICOM 2007 IEEE, 2007, pp. 3592 - 3595 7] E. Constantinides and S. J. Fountain, "Web 2.0: Conceptual Foundations and Marketing Issues," Journal of Direct, Data and Digital Marketing Practice, vol. 9, pp. 231-244, 2008 8] J. W. Creswell, Educational Research: Planning Conducting, and Evaluating Quantitative and Qualitative Research, 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Merrill, 2005 9] S. S. Dawes, "Interagency Information Sharing: Expected Benefits, Manageable Risks," Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, vol. 15, pp. 377-394, 1996 10] G. DeSanctis and M. S. Poole, "Capturing the Complexity in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory," Organization Science, vol. 5, pp. 121-147, 1994 11] H. Finch and J. Lewis, "Focus Groups," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J. Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 170198 12] L. S. Flak and S. Nordheim, "Stakeholders, Contradictions and Salience: An Empirical Study of a Norwegian G2g Effort," in Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, \(HICSS39 eGovernment Track 75tig 13] G. E. Gorman, P. Clayton, M. L. Rice-Lively, and L Gorman, Qualitative Research for the Information Professional: A Practical Handbook. London: Library Association Publishing, 1997 14] T. L. Greenbaum, The Handbook for Focus Group Research, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 1998 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 15] T. L. Greenbaum, Moderating Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Group Facilitation. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000 16] A. Groenlund, "State of the Art in e-Gov Research Surveying Conference Publications," International Journal of Electronic Government Research, vol. 1, pp. 1-25, 2005 17] A. T.-k. Ho, "Reinventing Local Governments and the EGovernment Initiative," Public Administration Review, vol 62, pp. 434-444, 2002 18] M. Janssen, G. Kuk, and R. W. Wagenaar, "A Survey of Web-Based Business Models for E-Government in the Netherlands," Government Information Quarterly, vol. 25 pp. 202, 2008 


pp. 202, 2008 19] C. Kaylor, R. Deshazo, and D. Van Eck, "Gauging EGovernment: A Report on Implementing Services among American Cities," Government Information Quarterly, vol 18, pp. 293-307, 2002 20] C. H. Kaylor, "The Next Wave of e-Government: The Challenges of Data Architecture," Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, vol. 31 pp. 18-22, 2005 21] R. Klischewski and H. J. Scholl, "Information Quality as the Capstone of E-Government Integration, Interoperation and Information Sharing," Electronic Government, an International Journal, vol. 5, pp. 203-285, 2008 22] R. A. Krueger and M. A. Casey, Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Applied Research, 3rd ed. Thousand Oaks Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000 23] E. Madriz, "Focus Groups in Feminist Research," in Handbook of Qualitative Research, N. K. Denzin and Y. S Lincoln, Eds., 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000, pp. 835-850 24] A. Mathie and J. C. Greene, "Stakeholder Participation in Evaluation: How Important Is Diversity?" Evaluation and Program Planning, vol. 20, pp. 279-285, 1997 25] L. Mohan and W. K. Holstein, "Eis: It Can Work in the Public Sector," MIS Quarterly, vol. 14, pp. 434-448, 1990 26] E. W. T. Ngai and F. K. T. Wat, "A Literature Review and Classificatiuon of Electronic Commerce Research Information &amp; Management, vol. 39, pp. 415-429, 2002 27] W. J. Orlikowski and D. Robey, "Information Technology and the Structuring of Organizations," Information Systems Research, vol. 2, pp. 143-169, 1991 28] R. Park, "Measuring Factors That Influence the Success of E-Government Initiatives," in 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS41 IEEE, 2008, pp. 218 - 218 29] M. Q. Patton, Qualitative Research and Evaluation Methods, 3 ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications 2002 30] H. Rainey, R. Backoff, and C. Levine, "Comparing Public and Private Organizations," Public Administration Review vol. 36, pp. 233-244, 1976 31] J. Ritchie, J. Lewis, and E. Gillian, "Designing and Selecting Samples," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London; Thousand Oaks, Calif Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 77-108 32] K. A. Schildt, S. Beaumaster, and S. Bailey, "Organization Antecedents of Successful It Management," presented at Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS'06 Government Track, Kauai, 2006 33] B. C. Stahl, "The Paradigm of E-Commerce in EGovernment and E-Democracy," in Electronic Government Strategies and Implementation, W. Huang, K. Siau, and K K. Wei, Eds. Hershey PA: Idea Group Pub., 2005, pp. 1-19 34] A. L. Strauss and J. M. Corbin, Basics of Qualitative Research: Techniques and Procedures for Developing Grounded Theory, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 1998 35] Y. Wang, J. Li, P. Liu, and F. Yang, "Electronic Commerce Research Review: Classification and Analysis," in 3rd International Conference on Wireless Communications Networking and Mobile Computing, \(WiCom 2007 Shanghai, PR China: IEEE, 2007, pp. 3505 - 3508 36] M. Ward and S. Mitchell, "A Comparison of the Strategic Priorities of Public and Private Sector Information Resource Executives," Government Information Quarterly vol. 21, pp. 284-304, 2004 37] M. Zajicek, "Web 2.0: Hype or Happiness?" presented at Proceedings of the 2007 international cross-disciplinary conference on Web accessibility \(W4A 2007 


  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207–216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Int’l Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Int’l Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





