Information Sharing at National Borders Extending the Utility of Border Theory  Celene Navarrete A School of Information Systems and Technology Claremont Graduate University California, USA celene.navarrete@cgu.edu  Sehl Mellouli Information Systems Department Laval University Quebec, Canada sehl.mellouli@sio.ulaval.ca  Theresa A. Pardo Center for Technology in Government  University at Albany 
New York, USA tpardo@ctg.albany.edu  J. Ramon Gil-Garcia Public Administration Department Centro de InvestigaciÛn y Docencia EconÛmicas, Mexico joseramon.gil@cide.edu    Abstract Research has identified the potential and challenges of information sharing in government settings mostly within the context of a single country The challenges facing inter-governmental information exchanges that take place acr oss national border governments, however, are thought to be different To date, research has failed to provide theoretical 
guidance in understanding the complexities that the cross border environment brings to information sharing initiatives. T his paper brings together BrunetJaillyês theory of borders of cr os s boundary information sharing from Gil-Garcia et al  to develop a fr amew or k that incor por ates the information sharing and technology dimension with the economic, political and cultural contextual factors impacting border regions. This study is an initial step toward understanding the challenges that the border environment brings to information sharing initiatives Future research is necessary to empirically test t he utility of the proposed theory as a tool for understanding this new area of both practical and 
theoretical importance   1. Introduction  Globalization priorities are driving many countries to work together in new ways. New partnerships are being formed around common economic and social issues as well as shared challenges.  Border regions, in particular, represent an important and unique context for transnational government collaboration. Current efforts to create transnational processes in the European Union and in North America that facilitate benefits management for cross-border workers are examples of these new modes of operation. However 
efforts to collaborate within national border regions face unique challenges such as diverging national, as well as state, provincial, and local agendas, different legislation and regulation systems for providing services, accessing, and sharing both citizen and government information, cultural differences \(e.g language barriers, resistance to technological innovation\, and technological problems related to the integration of the deployed systems In recent years, increasing research attention has been paid to information sharing across multiple 
government agencies found to be central to these problem solving strategies; in particular the role information and communication technologies \(e.g. the Internet T h is res earch reg u l arl y e m p h as ize s th a t  the effectiveness of inter-organizational information exchanges depends on the interplay of several technology and non-technology related factors e.g quality of the organizational and technological structures that support information sharing, policy environment, level of jurisdictional authority to promote integration and interoperation among agencies, among others [2 
However, despite the significant advances in knowledge about this phenomenon within the context of a single country, we still know little about the factors underlying inter-governmental collaboration across borders, in general, and even less about the borders of the three countries of North America. The shortage of research studying information sharing in the transnational context has also been discussed in a recent report released by the Center for Technology in Government \(CTG\This study reports that research on transnational efforts in e-government comprises 
only 4% of the total research in e-governme Findings also suggest that existing studies have been mostly conducted by European Union States Research is this domain overall is clearly scarce and an analysis of the interactions of political, economic and cultural contexts and the information needs of crossborder interoperable systems is fully missing  1.2 Information Sharing and the Borders of North America Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


 Information sharing can be understood as building systems, instituting formal standards, and changing business processes to allow organizations to share data and information with many other organizations p. 1  th e border reg i on s  of th e t h ree coun tries o f  North America, economic, political, cultural and social differences create a complex environment for collaboration and information sharing.  Distinctive legislation, issues of sovereignty, language barriers different working environments and conditions as well as unique policies regarding access to information are among a few of the many factors that contribute to this complexity [13To en s u r e th at inf o r m atio n can be effectively shared, governments require high levels of interoperability of policy, management and technology systems including standardization. Increasingly agreements between the countries make specific the kinds of information that will be shared and how that information will be used \(See Table 1\r control as an example, is an area where much attention is paid to these issues both by practitioners and researchers The border control is complex and deeply institutional, and requires a high level of capability for information sharing. But capability for information sharing within border regions is also critical in a number of other policy domains such as public health and environmental management. In these domains information sharing and collaboration across borders in can be more complex due to the involvement of many more actors within the border regions.  State or provincial governments are certainly involved, but so are local governments and other non-governmental organizations working at the local and state or provincial level  Table 1. Selected areas of collaboration in two binational agreements in North America  Agreement Areas Description U.S.-Canada Smart Border Action Plan          Biometric Information Collection Storage and Processing Develop common standards for biometrics, and adopt interoperable and compatible biometric technologies Refugee and Asylum Processing Share information regarding refugee/asylum applicants Joint Passenger Analysis Unit Cooperate on identifying potentially highrisk travelers Fingerprint Information Sharing Exchange of fingerprint and criminal records information Integrated Border Enforcement Teams Shared training and cooperation among border security and law enforcement agencies U.S.-MÈxico Border Partnership Action Plan  Advance Passenger Information API Establish a joint API system for US-MÈxico flights  Visa Policy Consultations Continue consultation on visa policies and visa screening procedures Compatible Databases U.S.-MÈxico Border Partnership Action Plan Screening of Third-Country Nationals  Enhance cooperative efforts to detect screen, and take appropriate measures to deal with potentially dangerous thirdcountry nationals Sources: Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada http://www.dfait-maeci.gc.ca/anti-terrorism/actionplan-en.asp  and U..S. Department of State http://www.state.gov/p/wha/rls/fs/8909.htm  The focus of this paper is to integrate insights about the cross-border dimension with findings from studies of inter-governmental information sharing Specifically, we draw on Brunet-Jailly s theory of borders [10 d ex ten d it by i n corporatin g an information and technology dimension. The extended theory joins the political, economic and cultural contexts as laid out in the Brunet-Jailly s conceptualization of borders with what is known about information needs of cross-border interoperable systems. This integration provides a robust foundation for the study of information sharing and collaboration Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


in border regions. Using this extended theory to explore the exchange of public information in border regions will broaden our understanding of the antecedents of information sharing in the transnational context and provides a framework for an examination of the factors important to the success of information sharing initiatives in those regions. Further, the new theory allows us to extend what is known about information sharing and collaboration in terms of cross-boundary contexts, in particular in country to country The paper is organized in four sections, including the foregoing introduction. Section two outlines the literature review approach used in the study followed by a summary of the findings of the review. Section three presents the extended framework.  Final thoughts on the new framework are presented in the conclusion  2. Information sharing and borders: What is known  This section presents the results of our literature review and is organized in four sections. First, brief summary of our literature review process is presented This is followed by a summary of the predominant theory of interest, Brunet-Jailly s theory of borders Following this we present a review of studies about information sharing and borders. The last two sections highlight two of the most important topics found in the literature review; technological aspects of transnational information sharing and cross-border intergovernmental relations and agreements  2.1. Finding relevant literature  An extensive review of the current literature was conducted to identify English-language theoretical and empirical research investigating the use of information technologies for information sharing, collaboration and interoperability in the border regions of North America. A systematic search of online library databases in the Social Sciences and Computer and Information Science areas \(e.g. Academic Search Premier, ABI/Inform, ACM Digital Library, Web of Science, OmniFile, Emerald Databases, Academic Search Premier\gs of the major conferences in Information Science and e-Government \(e.g. dg.o HICSS, AMCIS, DEXA\nd the e-government library compiled by the University of Washington \(2,200 articles approx.\as performed The small amount of published research indicates that little has been done in the area of information sharing in the transnational context. Moreover previous studies do not provide a formal approach helping to understand the complexities that the cross border environment brings to information sharing initiatives  Based on the insights gained from the analysis of the literature, this paper proposes a framework for an initial understanding of information sharing across border regions.  Section Four presents the proposed framework and the results from the literature  2.2. Brunet-Jailly s Border Theory  In this section, we present the theory of borders described in Brunet-Jailly s study demonstrate how this theory can be adapted to include a new dimension on information sharing Border or frontier has been defined in different ways across several disciplinary perspectives \(e.g Geography, History, Political Science, Law, Public Policy, Economics, Psychology, Anthropology Borderland Studies\e purpose of this study border is defined as the limit of territorial possessions of nations, countries or states o rders als o  delineate cultures, races, economies, and the boundary of governmental institutions that have sovereignty over a definite territory and population Adjacent border cities/towns or borderland communities  are d u ties to each oth e r i n  tackling cross-border issues ranging from migration to environmental issues. The integration of borders must be considered in terms of two directions of intergovernmental relations; the horizontal relations between similar government organizations \(governance issue\d vertical relations which are seen as intergovernmental relations. This integration means that agencies from both sides of a border communicate with each other. A communication means an exchange of information, or a sharing of information, between agencies. However, the local political, social, cultural and economical environment of adjacent border towns can be a barrier to governmental collaboration and interactions \(e.g. different institutional, human and technological capacity, drug and human trafficking political instability  Brunet-Jailly developed a theory of borders to understand the complexities that the local environment in borderland regions pose to the interactions of multiple levels of government  The theory of borders comprises four dimensions:  1 Market forces and trade flows that refers to the flows of good, people and investments across borders; 2 Policy activities of multiple levels of governments on adjacent borders which focus on the link that must be established between, in one hand, local, provincial, state, and central governments, and in the other hand, task specific public and private sector organizations; 3 The Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


particular political clout of borderland communities which focuses on the local civic and political organizations and individuals on the border. It includes the local level relations, local policy network, local policy communities, symbolic regime, and local border institutions; 4 The specific culture of borderland communities that refers to the sense of community common language, religious and socio-economic background of a specific border region. Table 2  summarizes the four dimensions of this theory This theory provides a way for developing a model that delineates an offset of variables along the four dimensions described previously. These dimensions can be used to frame the analysis of borders at two levels: 1\ency, which refers to the activities of individuals and how their intentions, motivations beliefs and values shape social life, and 2\tructure that is understood as the social processes that frame and contain individual action  Table 2 Theory of borders dimensions Dimension Description Market forces and trade flows  Flows of good, people and investments Policy activities of multiple levels of governments on adjacent borders Link that must be established between local, provincial, state and central governments and task specific public and private sector organizations  Political clout of borderland communities  Local civic and political organizations Culture of borderland communities Sense of community common language religious, and socioeconomic background  This model provides space for agencies and structures to interact by assuming that each analytical dimension can work either at the structural or at the agency level. Each analytical dimension aims to capture how the relative power of structural forces such as market forces and trade flows in the CanadianAmerican borderland and of agents, vary across time space, and according to sp ecific political, geographic and cultural conditions. Each dimension provides a historically variable expression of agent power. So the core of the theory of border studies is the implicit recognition that agency and structure are mutually influential and interrelated in the shaping of emerging and integrated borderlands p.644\ [10  The four dimensions of the theory of borders complement one another and characterize cross-border relations. For example, the market forces and trade flows dimension can impact the way local agencies work together. That is, the dimension policy activities of multiple levels of government The more the flows exchanged in a specific border \(e.g. goods, skills labor\portant, the more border agencies interact with each other, and the more they need a legislation that facilitates their interactions, and vice-versa.  The Cascadian regime in the Vancouver-Seattle region U.S.-Canada border\ a clear example of how economic interdependence has led to greater transgovernmental relations, cooperation and collaboration between communities in both sides of the border \(e.g 41 Public policy activities can also impact the culture or social processes of borderland communities International borders can delineate the political organization of nations; however, borderland communities can remain unified across borders by their ethnicity, language and/or religion o r ex a m ple  the border cities of San Diego and Tijuana in the U.S.MÈxico border are characterized for cultural and economical differences.  Nevertheless, local governments and civic organizations in the two sides of the border are creating partnerships to tackle common problems related to housing, migrant education, employment, public health, environmental issues \(e.g. water supply\ong others T h is manifestation of shared social capital has reinforced the sense of community in these two borderland cities and created a regional cross border culture ultimately influencing the way local agencies or other structures e.g. NGO s\work together and evolve over time Thus, the culture of borderland communities can impact the cross border political clout  Finally, the political clout of border adjacent communities can influence the economical integration and of border regions. If border agencies, work in an appropriate way, with a legislation in place that facilitates their interaction and collaboration, then investors and people can choose this border as a point for trading or traveling. For example, the security measures implemented in the U.S. borders after the 9/11 can disrupt trade and commerce in the U.S.MÈxico borders \(e.g. long waiting times in the ports of entry in the Tijuana-San Diego region  In the next section, we present a review of the literature on information sharing and borders specifically to lay the foundation for how the border theory of Brunet-Jailly can be augmented by adding a dimension on information sharing  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


2.2. Cross-boundary information sharing and interoperability  In recent years, increasing attention has been paid to the study of the role information and communication technologies play \(e.g. the Internet\ in supporting collaboration and information sharing across the boundaries of government agencies [1  M o st o f t h e  current research looks across the boundaries of governments within a single country, primarily in a comparative way. Some of this work, still only a small amount, focuses on transnational collaboration within the context of a single country.  The research that is available has emphasized that the effectiveness of inter-organizational information exchanges depends on the interplay of several technology and non-technology related factors e.g. quality of the organizational and technological structures that support information sharing, policy environment, level of jurisdictional authority to promote integration and interoperation among agencies, trust, governance structures, and leadership, among others [1-5, 16, 43  However, despite advances in this area, we still know little about the factors underlying the intergovernmental collaborations that occur across borders An analysis of relevant literature suggests that research in this domain is scarce and in its early stages of development. The shortage of works addressing interoperability and information sharing phenomena at the transnational level specifically has also been reported in recent studies In North America, research has focused primarily in the technical aspects of interoperability and information sharing. Studies describe the experiences of universities, government agencies and international organizations in the Unites States and some Latin American countries \(e.g. Belize, Dominican Republic in the creation of technologies and systems that support inter-governmental collaborations. For example studies have identified some technical barriers in the integration of cross-border information systems such as incompatible infrastructures, heterogeneous communication networks, complex web of information systems, diverse database designs, and variable data quality [17 th e Eu rop ean Un io n EU o lars  have discussed the  common interests and efforts of the EU members states in the standardization of processes and information for the delivery of cross-border public services to governments, citizens and enterprises \(e.g Interoperable Delivery of European e-Government Services Program  The policy aspects impacting cross-border intergovernmental initiatives have also been addressed in the literature. For example, research in the International Relations, Public Policy and Political Science fields suggests that issues such as diverging national agendas \(e.g. homeland security, information technology policy\, different legislation and regulation systems for accessing and sharing intelligence information \(e.g. information privacy legislation issues of sovereignty\, financial and personnel constraints \(e.g. budget limitations\ltural differences \(e.g. language barriers, resistance to technological innovation\ can impact interoperability and information sharing phenomena in the transnational context [14, 15, 23 To date, however, there is no study providing an integrative perspective of the multidimensional aspects involved in the cross-border interactions of systems processes, data, and relationships of multiple agencies of government. Previous research provides evidence of the interplay of several technical and non-technical variables \(e.g. legal, jurisdictional, organizational managerial, cost, technological\ on inter-organizational collaboration among government agencies within a single country  2.3. Technological aspects of transnational information sharing  Studies were found that describe the collaboration efforts between universities, government agencies and international organizations in the creation of technology tools for supporting the exchange of information across national borders. [17-21, 31, 32  Fortes port the creation of a trans n at ion a l  information system \(TIS\or detecting and monitoring activities related to illicit drug production, traffic and consumption across borders. This project is a collaboration effort between several universities government agencies, and international organizations in the U.S., Dominican Republic and Belize. The authors argue that the transnational information system attempts to overcome barriers for information sharing such as: 1\ incompatibility of information infrastructures and systems and 2\ multilingual information. The TIS system has several features including: \(1\ted system that allows intra and inter-government agencies to share information 2\ information system that manages and contains current information that is of interest for each agency and/or country, \(3\ool for translating sentences from English to Spanish and vice-versa \(4\ a conversational system for extracting information from spontaneous speech; maintains dialogue context and history; and builds database queries; and \(5\distributed system that provides distributed queries for information retrieval A second system found in the review for the creation of technologies for transnational information Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


sharing is in the Earth Sciences field. Gates et describe the experience of a group of researchers in the development and the use of a technological infrastructure that facilitates information sharing of geophysical and geographical data stored in different formats and data structures, and that can be used for exchange of information across countries. The authors suggest the technological infrastructure, based on webservices techniques will facilitate the interoperation of incompatible computational resources and data  2.4. Cross-border intergovernmental relations/agreement on information sharing   Several works in the literature address the issue of cross-border intergovernmental relations/agreement on information sharing. This research study is limited to the public policy implications of agreements that involve the collection and sharing of electronic information across the U.S.-MÈxico and U.S.-Canada borders. These works can be classified on issues addressing security [13, 15, 24, 33s portation  37 m i g r atio n 24], an d com m e rce [15, 3 4 36  Hosein ts an a n a l y s i s related to t h e  collection of passenger information for the US-VISIT system \(United States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology\his analysis proposes that policy discourse and deliberation related to the protection of personal information needs to be informed by 1\ternational dynamics \(e.g. different legal systems for the protection of data privacy international responses to U.S. policies about passenger information sharing\, 2\ Regulatory dynamics \(e.g. deliberation is not limited to governments and citizens. Non-state actors \(carriers also play an important role in the deliberation process 3\ Legal dynamics \(conflicting laws between the U.S and European Union \(EU\ about the treatment of passenger data, limitations in the use of data, periods of retention of data\ and 4\ Technological dynamics understanding the role of technologies play in information protection help to make better policies Rudolph i d es a det a i l e d des c ri pt i o n a n d  analysis of two bilateral agreements between the US and Canada, and the U.S. and MÈxico: 1\e U.S.Canada Smart Border Declaration \(SBD\d 2 MÈxico Border Partnership Action Plan \(BPAP\. SBD and BPAP involve themes of cooperation on areas related to: a\ecure flow of people \(e.g. biometric identifiers, compatible immigration databases, refugee and asylum processing, permanent resident cards, visa policy coordination, , passenger information/passenger name record\ecure flow of goods \(commercial processing , joint border facilities, customs data, in transit container targeting at seaports\re infrastructure \(intelligent transportation systems critical infrastructure protection, aviation security\nd d\ Coordination and information sharing in the enforcement of these objectives \(integrated border and marine enforcement teams, joint enforcement coordination, integrated intelligence, fingerprints removal of deportees, counter terrorism legislation In Brunet-Jailly rder secu rit y policies are  analyzed, particularly, the North American Smart Border Declaration. This study argues that after 9/11 there are two different models of security co-operation which have resulted in significantly different policy outcomes. Specifically, while the EU has implemented a relatively inexpensive border policy regime, the North American "smart border" model may have to amend in the long term because it is very expensive As the evidence presented in this paper indicates, when states co-operate in security matters they are able to establish economies of scale. In North America, the Canadian and the U.S. governments dominate the key financial and regulatory decisions on security and they sign international agreements. They depend on local networks of public security agencies linking local and central governments and on cross-border security networks encompassing public and private security agencies. The partnerships networks cross the border and overlap, thus, rather than being able to redistribute resources on external borders, all governments must reinvest in border security policies. In the EU model although member states still control the implementation of border security policies, they also co-operate and redistribute resources at the periphery in order to increase border surveillance and coordination. EU funds are used to finance and organize pan-European networks of security agencies information sharing, and best practices and training for and coordination of common security activities. Costs are increasing but proportionally less when compared with those in North America In Brunet-Jailly mparis on bet w een cros sborder relations under NAFTA in the CanadianAmerican border is conducted.  This study is based on the cases of three Canadian-American border regions Niagara-Niagara, Windsor-Detroit and VancouverSeattle.  This comparison argues that economic integration in the U.S.-Canada border has not led to the creation of border policies or institutions for cooperation. On the contrary, economic development strategies cause communities to compete \(for tourists and investors Finally, in Brunet-Jailly a th eor y of borders based on the analysis of literature on borders boundaries, frontiers, and borderland regions is proposed. However, this theory of border can be improved by adding an information sharing dimension Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


As stated in this section, information sharing at borders is a challenging issue for governments and should be included in a border theory In the next section, we discuss the theory of borders in the context of this literature and present an extended framework including the information sharing dimension  3. E-government, information sharing and interoperability at national borders: An extended framework   Brunet-Jailly [10 asserts th a t th e in terp l a y o f al l  four analytical lenses, markets, policy, politics and culture is useful, both in time and space. At question is the utility of the level of generalization found in this theory to understanding the dynamics of information use and sharing in border regions. The foregoing sections have outlined the great importance of information sharing to the efforts of governments to move their programmatic and service agenda forward in non-traditional jurisdictions, i.e., globally and regionally.  This focus has increased the criticality of understanding the influence of borders on the operations of government programs and services, in particular, in the sharing of information across boundaries as a key enabler to cross-boundary programs and services. The utility of this extension seems clear. However, it can be better illustrated through a brief discussion of the four components of cross-boundary information integration put forward in recent work T h es e co m pon en t s repres e n t th e f o u r  core constructs comprised in this extension, since information sharing is the new element in our proposed theory and should be well understood Gil-Garcia, Pardo, and Burk ide preliminary definitions of the four components of cross-boundary information sharing based on an extensive study of eight case studies of public health and public safety initiatives in the U.S.  These components when considered as the core elements of the information and technology dimension extend the utility of the Brunet-Jailly theory of borders to the context of cross-border information sharing Following, we briefly describe the four components which cover both technical and social aspects  1  Trusted Social Networks Networks of social actors who know each other and trust each other 2  Shared Information Sharing of tacit and explicit knowledge in the form of formal documents informal talks, e-mail messages, faxes, etc 3  Integrated Data Integration of data at the level of data element standards and/or industry/community data standards \(e.g. XML 4  Interoperable Technical Infrastructure  Systems that can communicate with each other at the hardware/operating system level  The components provide a foundation for both research and practice discussions about cross-boundary information sharing and as a point of departure for seeking others as of yet undiscovered core components of this phenomenon. The four components, when integrated with the current border theory under the umbrella of information sharing, extend the utility of that theory to examine questions such as the relationship between divergent national policy agendas on the four components of cross-boundary information sharing \(See Figure 1\stance, for one country the social components \(trusted social networks and shared information\ may be more important than for other countries, in which interoperability is still a main challenge and, therefore, their goals in terms of information integration and sharing represent mostly technical aspects. It is clear that in practical terms all four dimensions are highly interdependent. However disentangling these dimensions is necessary to provide researchers and practitioners with a better way to understand each of the components and to focus attention on them. For analytical and practical purposes, the separation of these four elements can lead to improved understanding of their interdependencies and related complexities. The consequences of this new understanding are likely to include more informed decisions about building interoperability, integrating data, sharing information and fostering trusted social networks among relevant actors at border regions The extended framework can inform additional questions such as  Q1. What region specific characteristics such as culture, policy environment, and language, are challenging the transnational inter-governmental information sharing found in the cases Q2. What mechanisms are being used to deal with these challenges Q3. What techniques are being used to integrate work processes of the agencies involved in cross-border collaboration and information sharing cases Q4. What information technologies are being adopted to facilitate the exchange of information across borders    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


                 Figure 1. Extended theory of borders. Adapted from Brunet-Jailly  The proposed framework can be used to examine the influence of a variety of contextual factors such as market forces and trade flows, policy activities of multiple governments on adjacent borders, and the political clout and culture of borderland communities on information sharing and collaboration initiatives  4. Conclusion  Globalization and regionalization are drawing the attention of practitioners and scholars alike Governments at all levels working within border regions borders, in particular, are finding it necessary to work together in new ways to leverage the benefits of working globally as well as regionally. Working together across boundaries and borders rests on sharing information. This paper has contributed an extended border theory that integrates current research in crossboundary information sharing with widely accepted theory on borders Future research is necessary to empirically test t he utility of the proposed theory as a tool for understanding this new area of both practical and theoretical importance  5  Acknowledgements  The authors want to thank Jochen Scholl, Jane Fountain, Jeffrey Roy, and Rodrigo Sandoval for their valuable comments to early versions of this paper. This work was partially supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 37656. Any opinions findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation   6. References  1 Sc holl  H  J  a nd R. K l is c h e w s k i E-Government Integration and Interoperability: Framing the Research Agenda International Journal of Public Administration 2007 30 p. 889 920 2 r e y   L  ed  Information Sharing Between & Within Governments 1998, Commonwealth Secretariat London 3 P a r do, T G  G J Ra m on, a nd B. Bria n Sustainable Cross-Boundary Information Sharing in Digital Government: E-Government Research, Case Studies and Implementation Hsinchun Chen, et al., Editors 2007, Springer. p. 421-438 4 D a w e s  S.S. a nd T  A  P a rdo Building Collaborative Digital Government Systems Systematic Constraints and Effective Practices in Advances in Digital Government. Technology.  Human Factors, and Policy  W.J. McIver and A.K. Elmagarmid, Editors. 2002 Kluwer Academic Publishers: Norwell, MA. p. 259-273 5 G ilG a r c ia J  R a m on, Che n g a lur-Sm ith Indus h o b h a  a n d  Duchessi Peter Collaborative E-Government Impediments and Benefits of Information Sharing Projects in the Public Sector European Journal of Information Systems, 2007 16 2\: p. 121-133 6 o l l   H.J Interoperability in E-Government:  More than Just Smart Middleware in Proceedings of the 38th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS'05\Track 5 2005. Island of Hawaii Big Island\: Computer Societry Press 7 H e lbig N e t a l  International Digital Government Research: A Reconnaissance Study 2007, Center for Technology in Government  M a rt  n ez Usero  J A    et al   Model for interoperability evaluation in e-government services in Proceedings MICTE. Current Developments in Technology-Assisted Education 2006. Seville, Spain 9 L e hto, L e t a l  A Prototype Cross-Border GML Data Service in 7th AGILE Conference on Geographic Information Science 2004. Heraklion, Greece 10 t-Ja illy  E Theorizing Borders: An Interdisciplinary Perspective Geopolitics, 2005 10 p 633-649 11  D a w e s S. S. a nd P r  f onta i ne L  Understanding New Models of Collaboration for Delivering Government Services Communications of the ACM, 2003 46 1 40-42 12 G ilG a r c a J. Ra m n, e t a l  Interorganizational Information Integration in the Criminal Justice Enterprise: Preliminary Lessons from State and County Initiatives in 38th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS 2005. University of Hawai'i at M„noa 13 t-Ja illy E Security and Border Security Policies Perimeter or Smart Border? A Comparison of the European Union and Canadian-American Border   Market Forces and Trade Flows Flows of good, people and investments Policy Activities of the Different levels of Government Link between local provincial, state, and central governments, and task specific public and private sector organizations  Political Clout of Cross Border Communities Local civic and political organizations  Culture of Cross Border Communities Sense of community common language, religious and socio-economic background Information Sharing Trusted social networks Shared tacit and explicit knowledge Integrated data infrastructure Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


Security Regimes Journal of borderlands studies, 2006 21 1 14  J  Security, Sovereignty and Continental Interoperability Social Science Computer Review 2005 23 4\: p. 463-479 15  J  Security and Borders in a Digital Age Implications for Canadian Government and North American Governance Journal of Borderlands Studies 2006 21 1\: p. 87-101 16  L una Rey e s L G ilG a r c a  J  Ra m n a nd Es tra d a MarroquÌn Mireya The Impact of Institutions on Interorganizational IT Projects in the Mexican Federal Government International Journal of Electronic Government Research, 2008 4 2\: p. 26-42 1 M a t s u n a ga A   M  a T s u g awa  an d J A  B F o rt es  Integration of Text-based Applications into ServiceOriented Architectures for Transnational Digital Government in 8th Annual International Digital Government Research Conference 2007. Philadelphia PA 18 Ca v a lli-Sf orz a  V e t a l  Enabling transnational collection, notification, and sharing of information in National Conference on Digital Government Research 2003. Boston: Digital Government Research Center 19 Fo rtes J.A  B Transnational Digital Government Research: Building Regional Partnerships in National Conference on Digital Government Research 2003 Boston 20 G a t e s  A  e t a l  Towards Secure Cyberinfrastructure for Sharing Border Information in Proceedings of the Lineae Terrarum: International Border Conference  2006 El Paso, Las Cruces, and Cd. Juarez 21 Su, A  S., e t a l    Transnational Information Sharing Event Notification, Rule Enforcement and Process Coordination International Journal of Electronic Government Research, 2005 1 2\: p. 1-26 22  P e ris t e r a s V K  T a r a ba nis  a nd N  L outa s  CrossBorder Public Services: Analysis and Modeling in Hawaii International Conference on Systems Sciences  2007. Big Island, Hawaii: IEEE 23 T h errien  M.-C The Canada-U.S. Border: Achieving an Efficient Inter-Organizational Policy Coordination  Canadian-American Public Policy, 2003 54  24 Rudo lp h C International Migration and Homeland Security: Coordination and Collaboration in North America Law and Business Review of the Americas 2004 11  2 Z h en g  L  Cross-national information policy conflict regarding access to information: building a conceptual framework in 8th annual international conference on Digital government research: bridging disciplines domains 2007. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Digital Government Research Center 26 t-Ja illy  E Comparing Local Cross-Border Relations under the EU and NAFTA CanadianAmerican Public Policy, 2004 28  27 o f s te de  G  Culture's consequences: International Differences in Work-Related Values 1980, Beverly Hills, CA: SAGE Publications 2 slo w ski R Smart Borders, Virtual Borders or No Borders: Homeland Security Choices for the United States and Canada Law and Business Review of the Americas, 2005 11  2 slo w ski R Real Challenges for Virtual Borders The Implementation of US-VISIT in Migration Policy Institute Report 2005 30  H o f s te de G  a nd G  J  H o fs te de  Cultures and Organizations. Software of the Mind 2005, New York McGraw Hill. 434 31 Su S For t e s J., Ka sa d T  R P a til, M  Ma tsuna g a A  Tsugawa, M., Cavalli-Sforza, V., Carbonell, J., Jansen P., Ward, W., Cole, R., Towsley, D., Chen, W., Anton A. I., He, Q., Mcsweeney, C., Brens, L. D., Ventura, J Taveras, P., Connolly, R., Ortega, C., Pineres, B Brooks, O. & Herrera, M A Prototype System for Transnational Information Sharing and Process Coordination in 5th Annual National Conference for Digital Government Research 2004. Seattle, WA Digital Government Research Center 32 Ma ts una g a A M. T s ug aw a  a nd J  A  B. Forte s  Virtual machines in transnational digital government: a case study in National Conference on Digital Government Research 2005. Atlanta, Georgia Digital Government Research Center 33 Ho sein  I  Transforming Travel and Border Controls Checkpoints in the Open Society Government Information Quarterly, 2006 22 p. 594-625 34 Bons or  N  Fixing the Potholes North American Transportation Systems in Choices 2004, Institute for Research on Public Policy: Montreal 35 t-Ja illy  E NAFTA and Cross Border Relations in Niagara, Detroit and Vancouver Journal of Borderlands Studies, 2006 21 2\: p. 1-19 36  B e nde r  D  a n d L   P o ne m on Binding corporate rules for cross border data transfer Journal of Law & Urban Policy 2006 3 2 37 a k e  J  E Border and Transportation Security Overview of Congressional Issues 2004, The Library of Congress 38 T r a n sporta tion Re se a r c h Boa rd F r e i g h t Da ta Com m itte e  and International Trade and Transportation Committee North American Freight Transportation Data Workshop, August 2007, Transportation Research board of the national academies 2007: Washington D.C 39  G ilG a r c ia J  R P a rdo  T  A  Burk e  G  B. \(2008  Conceptualizing inter-organizational information integration in government: A comprehensive and empirically grounded definition Unpublished manuscript 4 Ram o s J M    Managing Transborder Cooperation on Public Security: The Tijuana-San Diego Region in Research Seminar on MÈxico and the U.S 2008, The Center for U.S. Mexican Studies: UCSD La Jolla, Ca 41 Br une t-Ja illy E NAFTA and Cross Border Relations in Niagara, Detroit and Vancouver Journal of Borderlands Studies, 2006 21 2\: p. 1-19 42 Bru ne t-Ja illy E Comparing Local Cross-Border Relations under the EU and NAFTA CanadianAmerican Public Policy, 2004 28  43 H o ra n, T  Ma ric h M  a n d S c hoole y B Time-critical Information Services: Update on Exploratory Analysis Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


of Emergency Response and Related E-Governmental Services Proceedings of the 2006 International Conference on Digital Government Research. San Diego, California, 2006 4 Kad a  N and R Kiy   Blurred Borders: Trans-Boundary Impacts and Solutions in the San Diego-Tijuana Region  2004, International Community Foundation. p. 202       Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


explained jointly by legal &amp; policy environment, social amp; cultural infrastructure and GDP per capita  5.2. Phase-II \(2007  The descriptive statistics of the two IVs and DV used in the Phase-II data analysis are shown in Table 3 Table 3.  Descriptive statistics of the EIU 2007 data Item Mean Minimum Maximum Std Deviation LE 6.73 2.10 9.70 1.84 GP 6.33 2.50 9.85 2.08 CBA 6.37 2.50 9.50 2.08 The regression model is shown in Table 4.  The result showed that GP was the most significant predictor of e-commerce adoption \(p&lt;0.01 2007 sample.  The effect of LE on e-commerce adoption was not found significant here.  The relative importance of the two IVs in predicting a country?s ecommerce usage in this given model was about 1:2.89 corresponding to the ratio of unique contributions of legal environment and government policy Table 4.  The multiple regression model \(EIU 2007 Beta Std. Error t Significance LE 0.131 0.086 1.531 0.131 GP 0.379 0.088 4.303 0.000 SCI 0.184 0.095 1.942 0.057 GDPPP 0.329 0.073 4.524 0.000 Overall, R2 in the full regression model \(with the IVs and CVs together variance in e-commerce adoption in the EIU 2007 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 sample was explained jointly by legal environment government policy, social &amp; cultural infrastructure and GDP per capita  6. Discussion and conclusion  6.1. Discussion of findings  The secondary data analyses in this study were able to demonstrate the cause-effect relationship between the institutional environment and e-commerce adoption.  Specifically speaking, the legal and policy environment did exert a substantial positive impact on e-commerce adoption around the world at the early stage of e-commerce \(the worldwide average score of e-commerce was only 5.51 out of 10 in the EIU 2003 sample government financial support of e-commerce and related infrastructure projects, effectiveness of legal framework, and laws covering e-commerce, together they fostered consumers and businesses in many countries to engage in e-commerce in 2003.  This finding proved the institutional perspective about the critical role of government policy and legal environment in driving e-commerce adoption Four years later, in 2007, the global average score of e-commerce improved from 5.51 to 6.37, at a rate of 16%.  As e-commerce became more prevalent in the world, supportive government policy still provided a powerful explanation for variations in e-commerce adoption around the world.  On the other hand, the impact of legal environment was reduced.  A possible explanation from the perspective of institutionalism is that a predictive and effective legal environment was important to reduce the institutional uncertainty and ensure the trust and confidence in e-commerce activities, especially during the initial stage of ecommerce development.  A good legal system is a safeguard for online commercial transactions Nevertheless, the encouraging influence of legal 


Nevertheless, the encouraging influence of legal environment would be diminished as people understand e-commerce better and e-commerce becomes a common practice in the society  6.2. Policy implication  An effective research project is not only used to explain and predict social phenomena, but also to help humans master them to achieve social objectives through yielding useful policy recommendations [60 All sound policy prescriptions should rely on a solid theory base, valid data analysis, and rational discussion.  In reality, however, policymakers generally lack adequate scientific evidence and knowledge for making crucial decisions on ecommerce development.  The application of institutional theory in e-commerce adoption and its empirical findings in this study have a clear relevance to policy makers.  If we understand better at the theoretical level how those institutional factors would produce an outcome of e-commerce adoption, we then have the basis for a conditional prediction in the real world on how e-commerce will develop in a certain environment.  It will help policy makers to formulate appropriate policies to accelerate e-commerce adoption Experience has taught us that it is important to build a friendly climate for technology innovation and diffusion.  The effects of the legal and policy environments will depend to a significant extent on how policy-makers and other stakeholders will act and influence.  According to this study, this is particularly vital at the starting stage of e-commerce.  The advancement in e-commerce adoption at Phase I 2003 environment and government policy.  In particular proactive government policies were the prime mover of e-commerce in many developing countries, and it is still a driving force of e-commerce diffusion today The fosterage of government policy is summarized as follows.  First, government policies that encourage investment in IT adoption, particularly the financial incentives, are stimulating to e-commerce development.  Second, government efforts to promote an open and free trade environment, including deregulating telecom markets, improving IT infrastructure, and conducting e-procurement itself will encourage e-commerce adoption and diffusion Third, government?s assurance on recognizing econtracts and providing legitimate legal frameworks will facilitate e-commerce activities.  Fourth government?s educational and training program will foster ?e-literacy? and greater awareness of ecommerce among businesses.  Last, cooperation between government and private sector is a key to ecommerce On the other hand, this study also shows that the lack of adequate legal framework might be a concern for engaging in e-commerce at first, but that the lack thereof would not deter the society from further ecommerce diffusion. Thus, after an initial push on ecommerce adoption, legislations should not interfere directly in private investments in e-commerce until there is a clear sign of market uncertainty and disturbance Finally, as Kofi Annan, the former SecretaryGeneral of UN, indicated, ?if all countries are to be benefited [from e-commerce], ? more needs to be Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 done to ? create an enabling environment, nationally 


done to ? create an enabling environment, nationally and internationally.? [7  7. References  1] UNCTAD, "Information Economy Report 2007," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2007 2] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2002," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2002 3] UNCTAD, "Information Economy Report 2006," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2006 4] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2001," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2001 5] R. Tehan, "E-commerce statistics: Explanation and sources,"  Washington, D.C.: Congressional Research Service, The Library of Congress, 2003 6] W. J. Clinton and J. Albert Gore, "A Framework for Global Electronic Commerce,"  Washington, D.C.: The White House, 1997 7] UNCTAD, "E-Commerce and Development Report 2004," United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Geneva 2004 8] C.-F. Shih, J. Dedrick, and K. L. Kraemer, "Rule of law and the international diffusion of e-commerce," Association for Computing Machinery. Communications of the ACM, vol 48, p. 57, Nov 2005 9] J. E. Oxley and B. Yeung, "E-commerce readiness Institutional environment and international competitiveness Journal of International Business Studies, vol. 32, pp. 705723, 2001 10] K. A. Shepsle, "Institutional equilibrium and equilibrium institutions," in Political Science: The Science of Politics, H. Weisburg, Ed. New York: Agathon, 1986, pp 51-82 11] E. Ostrom, "An agenda for the study of institutions Public Choice, vol. 48, pp. 3-25, 1986 12] J. Ahrens, "The New Institutional Economics," in Governance and economic development Northampton, MA Edward Elgar, 2002, pp. 48-68 13] P. J. DiMaggio and W. W. Powell, "Introduction," in The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, W. W Powell and P. J. DiMaggio, Eds. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1991, pp. 1-38 14] D. C. North, "The New Institutional Economics Journal of institutional and theoretical economics, vol. 142 pp. 230-237, 1986 15] P. J. DiMaggio and W. W. Powell, "The iron cage revisited: Institutional isomorphism and collective rationality in organization fields," in The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, W. W. Powell and P. J. DiMaggio Eds. Chicago, IL: The University of Chicago Press, 1991, pp 63-82 16] J. L. King, V. Gurbaxani, K. L. Kraemer, F. W McFarlan, K. S. Raman, and C. S. Yap, "Institutional factors in information technology innovation," Information Systems Research, vol. 5, pp. 139-169, 1994 17] C. L. Iacovou, I. Benbasat, and A. S. Dexter, "Electronic data interchange and small organizations: Adoption and impact of technology," MIS Quarterly, vol. 19, pp. 465-485 December 1995 18] S. Dasgupta, D. Agarwal, A. Ioannidis, and S Gopalakrishnan, "Determinants of information technology adoption: An extension of existing models to firms in a developing country," Journal of Global Information Management, vol. 7, pp. 30-45, 1999 19] E. H.-h. Wang, "ICT and economic development in Taiwan: analysis of the evidence," Telecommunications Policy, vol. 23, pp. 235-243, 1999 


Policy, vol. 23, pp. 235-243, 1999 20] PWC, "SME Electronic Commerce Study \(final report Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation APEC PWC September 1999 September 24th 1999 21] A. Scupola, "The adoption of Internet commerce by SMEs in the south of Italy: An environmental, technological and organizational perspective," Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol. 6, pp. 52-71 2003 22] S. Fraser and W. Wresch, "National competitive advantage in e-commerce efforts: A report from five caribbean nations," Perspectives on Global Development and Technology, vol. 4, pp. 27-44, 2005 23] I. Mia and S. Dutta, "Connecting the world to the networked economy: A progress report based on the findings of the Networked Readiness Index 2006-2007," in The global information technology report 2006-2007: Connecting to the networked economy, S. Dutta and I. Mia, Eds. Hampshire UK: Palgrave Macmillan, 2007, pp. 3-21 24] S. M. B. Thatcher, W. Foster, and L. Zhu, "B2B ecommerce adoption decisions in Taiwan: The interaction of cultural and other institutional factors," Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, vol. 5, pp. 92-104, 2006 25] EIU, "The 2003 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2003 26] P. Y. K. Chau and K. L. T. Hui, "Determinants of small business EDI adoption: An empirical investigation," Journal of Organizational Computing &amp; Electronic Commerce, vol 11, pp. 229-252, 2001 27] K. K. Y. Kuan and P. Y. K. Chau, "A perception-based model for EDI adoption in small businesses using a technology-organization-environment framework Information &amp; Management, vol. 38, pp. 507-521, October 2001 28] L. Cui, C. Zhang, C. Zhang, and L. Huang, "Exploring e-government impact on Shanghai firms' informatization process," Electronic Markets, vol. 16, p. 312, 2006 29] A. H. Seyal, M. M. Awais, S. Shamail, and A. Abbas Determinants of electronic commerce in Pakistan Preliminary evidence from small and medium enterprises Electronic Markets, vol. 14, pp. 372-387, 2004 30] E. Grandon and J. M. Pearson, "E-commerce adoption Perceptions of managers/owners of small and medium sized firms in Chile," Communications of the Association for Information Systems, vol. 13, pp. 81-102, 2004 31] E. E. Grandon and J. M. Pearson, "Electronic commerce adoption: An empirical study of small and medium US businesses," Information &amp; Management, vol. 42, pp. 197216, December 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 32] Y.-B. Joo and Y. G. Y.-G. Kim, "Determinants of corporate adoption of e-marketplace: An innovation theory perspective," Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management, vol. 10, pp. 89-101, March 2004 33] A. M. Khalfan and A. Alshawaf, "Adoption and implementation problems of e-banking: A study of the managerial perspective of the banking industry in Oman Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol 7, pp. 47-64, 2004 34] J. Gibbs, K. L. Kraemer, and J. Dedrick, "Environment and policy factors shaping global e-commerce diffusion: A cross-country comparison," The Information Society, vol. 19 pp. 5-18, 2003 35] B. Shore, "Information sharing in global supply chain systems," Journal of Global Information Technology Management, vol. 4, pp. 27-50, 2001 36] C. L. Mann, "Electronic commerce, networked readiness, and trade competitiveness," in The global information technology report 2001-2002: Readiness for the networked world, G. S. Kirkman, P. K. Cornelius, J. D 


networked world, G. S. Kirkman, P. K. Cornelius, J. D Sachs, and K. Schwab, Eds. New York/Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2002, pp. 90-103 37] EC, "The European e-Business Report 2006/07 edition e-Business W@tch, European Commission, Bonn, Germany 2006 2006 2006 38] G. Ndubizu and B. Arinze, "Legal determinants of the global spread of e-commerce," International Journal of Information Management  vol. 22, pp. 181-194, June 2002 39] H. Zhao, S. Kim, T. Suh, and J. Du, "Social institutional explanations of global Internet diffusion: A cross-country analysis," Journal of Global Information Management, vol 15, pp. 28-55, April-June 2007 40] J. L. Gibbs and K. L. Kraemer, "A cross-country investigation of the determinants of scope of e-commerce use: An institutional approach," Electronic Markets, vol. 14 pp. 124-137, June 2004 41] S. Xu, K. Zhu, and J. Gibbs, "Global technology, local adoption: A cross-country investigation of Internet adoption by companies in the United States and China," Electronic Markets, vol. 14, pp. 13-24, 2004 42] K. Zhu and K. L. Kraemer, "Post-adoption variations in usage and value of e-business by organizations: Crosscountry evidence from the retail industry," Information Systems Research, vol. 16, pp. 61-84, March 2005 43] K. Zhu, K. L. Kraemer, and S. Xu, "The process of innovation assimilation by firms in different countries: A technology diffusion perspective on E-business Management Science, vol. 52, pp. 1557-1576, October 2006 44] K. Zhu, K. L. Kraemer, S. Xu, and J. Dedrick Information technology payoff in e-business environments An international perspective on value creation of e-business in the financial services industry," Journal of Management Information Systems, vol. 21, pp. 17-54, Summer 2004 45] E. Kaynak, E. Tatoglu, and V. Kula, "An analysis of the factors affecting the adoption of electronic commerce by SMEs: Evidence from an emerging market," International Marketing Review, vol. 22, pp. 623-640, 2005 46] M. Simpson and A. J. Docherty, "E-commerce adoption support and advice for UK SMEs," Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development, vol. 11, pp. 315-328, 2004 47] P.-F. Hsu, K. L. Kraemer, and D. Dunkle, "Determinants of e-business use in U.S. firms," International Journal of Electronic Commerce, vol. 10, pp. 9-45, Summer 2006 48] R. Bond and C. Whiteley, "Untangling the Web: A review of certain secure e-commerce legal issues International Review of Law, Computers &amp; Technology, vol 12, pp. 349-370, 1998 49] A. D. Mitchell, "Towards compatibility: The future of electronic commerce within the global trading system Journal of International Economic Law, vol. 4, p. 683, 2001 50] A. D. Murray, D. W. Vick, and S. Wortley, "Regulating e-commerce: Formal transactions in the digital age International Review of Law, Computers &amp; Technology, vol 13, pp. 127-145, 1999 51] G. I. Zekos, "MNEs, globalisation and digital economy Legal and economic aspects," Managerial Law, vol. 45, pp 5-296, 2003 52] Baker&amp;McKenzie, "Global E-commerce Law Resources," http://www.bakernet.com/ecommerce, Baker &amp McKenzie Law Firm, 2004 53] C. Hakim, "Research reviews, meta-analysis and secondary analysis," in Research Design: Successful designs for social and economic research, Second ed New York Routledge, 2000, pp. 21-33 54] K. L. Kraemer, "Introduction," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3 K. L. Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School 1991, pp. xiii-xvii 55] V. Gurbaxani and H. Mendelson, "The use of secondary analysis in MIS research," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3, K. L 


Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School, 1991 pp. 71-106 56] H. C. Lucas, "Methodological issues in information systems survey research," in The information systems research challenge: Survey research methods. vol. 3, K. L Kraemer, Ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School, 1991 pp. 273-285 57] EIU, "The 2001 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2001 58] V. Jupp, The Sage Dictionary of Social Research Methods. London: Sage Publications, 2006 59] EIU, "The 2007 e-readiness rankings," Economist Intelligence Unit 2007 60] S. V. Evera, Guide to Methods for Students of Political Science. Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press, 1997   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 1984 12] Markus, M.L., Majchrzak, A., Gasser, L  A Design Theory For Systems That Support Emergent Knowledge Processes  MIS Quarterly, 26\(3 13] Walls, J., Widmeyer, G. R., El Sawy, O. A  Building an Information System Design Theory for Vigilant EIS   Information Systems Research 3\(1 14] Briggs, R., Nunamaker, J., Spraugue, R  Introduction to the Special Issue: Information Systems Design  Theory and Methodology  Journal of Information Systems, Spring 2004, 5-8 15] Royal Commission on Auckland Governance http://www.royalcommission.govt.nz 16] New Zealand Council for Infrastructure Development Strengthening Auckland Governance. 2008 17] Ackermann, F., Franco, L.A., Gallupe, B., Parent, M  GSS for Multi-Organizational Collaboration: Reflections on Process and Content  Group Decision and Negotiation 14, 2005, 307-331 18] Franco, L.A  Facilitating Collaboration with Problem Structuring Methods: A Case Study of an InterOrganisational Construction Partnership  Group Decision and Negotiation 17, 2008, 267-286 19] Lewis, F.L., Bajwa, D.S., Pervan, G., King, V.L.K Munkvold, B.E  A Cross-Regional Exploration of Barriers to the Adoption and Use of Electronic Meeting Systems   Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 381-398 20] Kolfschoten, G.L., Den Hengst-Bruggeling, M., De Vreede, G.J  Issues in the Design of Facilitated Collaboration Processes  Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 347-361 21] Guo, Z., Sheffield J  A Paradigmatic and Methodological Examination of Knowledge Management Research: 2000-2004  Decision Support Systems 44, 2008 673-688 22] Hevner, A. R., March, S. T., Park, J., Ram, S. Design Science in Information Systems Research. MIS Quarterly 28\(1 23] Boland, R. "The Process and Product of System Design," Management Science 28\(9 24] Lee, A.S. "Electronic Mail as a Medium for Rich Communication: An Empirical Investigation Using Hermeneutic Interpretation," MIS Quarterly 18\(2 143-157 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 25] Klein, H.K. and Myers, M.D. "A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, 23\(1 26] Trauth, E.M., and Jessup, L.M. "Understanding Computer-Mediated Discussions: Positivist and Interpretive Analyses of Group Support System Use," MIS Quarterly 24\(1 27] Walsham, G. "The Emergence of Interpretivism in IS Research," Information Systems Research 6\(4 394 28] Sheffield, J  The Design of GSS-Enabled Interventions: A Habermasian Perspective  Group Decision and Negotiation 13\(5 29] Sheffield, J., Guo, Z  Ethical Inquiry in Knowledge Management  International Journal of Applied Systemic Studies 1\(1  81 30] Cecez-Kecmanovic, D. "Basic Assumptions of the Critical Research Perspectives in Information Systems," in Handbook of Critical Information Systems Research Theory and Application, D. Howcroft and E. Trauth \(eds Edward Elgar, Aldershot, 2005, 19-46 31] Lyytinen, K., and Hirschheim, R. "Information Systems as a Rational Discourse: An Application of Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action 


Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action Scandinavian Journal of Management Studies 4\(1-2 19-30 32] Lyytinen, K., Klein, H.K  The Critical Theory of Jurgen Habermas as a Basis for a Theory of Information Systems  in Mumford, E., R.A. Hirschheim, G. Fitzgerald and T. Wood-Harper \(Editors Information Systems, Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1985 33] Marshall, N, Brady, T  Knowledge Management and the Politics of Knowledge: Illustrations from Complex Products and Systems  European Journal of Information Systems 10\(2 34] Mingers, J  Combining IS Research Methods Towards a Pluralist Methodology  Information Systems Research 12\(3 35] Ngwenyama, O.K. and Lee, A.S. "Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning," MIS Quarterly 21\(2 145-167 36] Ulrich, W.A  Philosophical Staircase for Information Systems Definition, Design, and Development: A Discursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 1  Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application 3\(3 37] Ulrich, W  Critically Systemic Discourse: A Disursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 2   Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application, 3\(3 38] Forester J, Critical Theory, Public Policy, and Planning Practice: Toward a Critical Pragmatism, State University of New York Press, Albany, 1993 39] Forester J. "Learning From Practice Stories: The Priority of Practical Judgment," in The Argumentative Turn in Policy Analysis and Planning Eds F. Fischer, J. Forester Duke University Press, Durham, NC  209 40] Innes, J.E. ?Planning Through Consensus Building Journal of the American Planning Association 62\(4 460-472 41] Healey, P. Collaborative Planning: Shaping Places in Fragmented Societies, Palgrave New York, 1997 42] Outhwaite, W. The Habermas Reader, Polity Press Cambridge, UK, 1996 43] Shakun, Melvin F. ?Right Problem Solving: Doing the Right Thing Right,? Group Decision and Negotiation 12 6 44] Mitroff, I.I., and Linstone, H.A. The Unbounded Mind Breaking the Chains of Traditional Business Thinking Oxford University Press, New York, 1993 45] Millet, I., and Gogan, J. ?A Dialectical Framework for Problem Structuring and Information Technology,? Journal of the Operational Research Society, 57, 2005, 434-442 46] Fjermestad, J., and Hiltz, S.R. ?Group Support Systems: A Descriptive Evaluation of Case and Field Studies,? Journal of Management Information Systems 17\(3 47] Shaw, D., Ackermann, F., Eden. C. ?Approaches to Sharing Knowledge in Group Problem Structuring   Journal of the Operational Research Society 54\(9 936-948 48] De Reuk, J  General Decision Assurance Principles and Procedures for Strategic Planning  International Journal of Management &amp; Decision Making 3\(2 139-150 49] Grinyer, P. ?A Cognitive Approach to Group Strategic Decision Taking: A Discussion of Evolved Practice in the Light of Received Research Results,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 51\(1 50] Ngwenyama, O. ?The Critical Social Theory Approach to Information Systems: Problems and Challenges,? In Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in 


Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in Information Systems, Sage, London, 2002 51] Auckland Regional Council. Auckland Strategic Planning Model \(ASP2 Auckland, 1997 52] Dias, L., and Climaco, J  Dealing With Imprecise Information in Group Multi-Criteria Decisions: A Methodology and a GDSS Architecture  European Journal of Operational Research 160\(2 53] Sheffield, J., Gallupe, B. ?Using Group Support Systems to Improve the New Zealand Economy, Part II Follow-Up Results,? Journal of Management Information Systems 11\(3 54] Van de Ven, A.H., Delbecq, A. L  The Effectiveness of Nominal, Delphi, and Interacting Group Decision Making Processes  Academy of Management Journal 17 1971, 605-621 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


