The Design of Intelligent QA platform Based on Model of Learner’s Personality  Yanhong Hu 1 002 Ming Zhao 2  1 School of network ,Huazhong Normal University,Wuhan,China,430079 2 School of Computer Science, Yangtze University,Jingzhou Hubei, China, 434023 Ming-zh@163.com ABSTRACT With the development of network technology ,online learning becomes easier. But how to meet the need of learners’ personality in network study is still a big problem In order to support the personalized study better in the network environment, we take the personalized learning system as the research background. The artificial intelligence and cognitive technology were employed in the design and research of intelligent QA platform based on learners’ personal model. Such issues as the model building based on learners’ personality,  and the designing of Intelligent QA Systems based on this model to present adaptive knowledge are mainly explored 1. INTRODUCTION QA system is a necessary component of online learning platform. It can promptly solve learners puzzles to a certain degree, and help to eliminate their learning barrier, In addition, it plays an crucial role in strengthening communication between teachers and learners, which is quite helpful for the learners to clear about the question and hence aquire the knowledge they really need. At present, a lot of researches have been conducted in this area According to related literature report, these researches mainly concentrate on key word match, dynamic question connection, FAQ production as well as the feedback of teachers teaching issues. Relatively speaking, the QA sytems designed by foreign experts are more intelligent For example, they support the i nquiry by natural language and provide richer content with higher quality. The most distinctive feature is that the excellent intelligent QA sytems abroad is running i ndependently, and they dont belong to any teaching or learning platform. They act as resource providers in professional fi elds, and dont link to teaching process. On the other hand, domestic QA systems are basically assistant of online edu cation, which help the teachers and learners in teaching and learning Obviously, online education has become increasingly popular. Although the model of keywords extraction and problems matching strategy has been extensively studied 002 in the designing of QA syst em, personalized interaction has been blowed over. Most advanced system through the keyword matching met hod has been looking for answers from the resource library, or providing FAQ to discussion areas such as BBS. The reason for this consideration is that the people in information acquisition process will be similar to some of the problems. In fact, questions must be quite different since the i nquirers are quite different in learning background, cognitive ability, and basic level and so on. These differences lies only in information and knowledge, and more importantly, in the depth of knowledge presentation. The traditional QA system take little consideration in the individual difference since it provides the same response to different inquirers, which inevitably limits its implication area In this paper, we discuss the designing of an intelligent QA platform based on the model of learners personality The main research point is on the use of data mining technology and other methods to extract the learners personality, and auto-adapted answer of question which inquirers provide based on questi ons of personal model. All these will involve the auto-adapted adjustment strategy based on connection with presents of questions. It has the extremely important theoretical significance for us to design a human, personalized intelligent QA system. The information acquired process i nvolves in inquires and replies. Without the design based on model of personality the quality of individualized information would not be ensured  2. Research on the mining of learner personality  The learning model is a user model aiming at online education. It is the abstract of one or a group of learners in online education environment, which describes such information as cognition level, the personalized characteristics of the learners. The learner model is the basis of implementing personalized learning. Nowadays the PAPI model established by IEEE LTCS is comparative mature. The model can meet the needs of teaching management well. However, it isnt comprehensive enough in describing the learning behavi or.  For example, it is lack of the description of some non-intelligence factors \(such as personality, motivation, learning style extend some property of indivi duality to this model so that it becomes the basis of th e personalized intelligence QA 
Second International Conference on Genetic and Evolutionary Computing 978-0-7695-3334-6/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/WGEC.2008.112 402 


system. Whats more, we conduct research on mining the personality of learners to ach ieve the relationship between learners personality and learning behavior. As the foundation of auto-adapted answering, all these will provide more comfortable service for online learners  2.1 The learning model aiming at personalized learning The traditional PAPI model contains the following information: statistic in formation of population, learning information, management in formation, relationship information, security information, preference information performance information and collective works information Among them, the description of the information about learners cognitive level was insufficient enough. For example performance information includes the resume of learners, the objective of current and future work situation work. Collective works information describes and testifies learners learning ability. However, this model shorts of the description of learners personality. Actually, the personality of learners will make a great contribution to study effect. For example , for a less self-confident student when he makes a right answer for a question, the human teacher would respond actively by such praise as "you are very good" to encourage him to go on to the next learning procedure; Comparatively, when a self-confidence student makes a right answer, teachers would respond like "not bad could you come to a higher challenge?" This kind of words encourages him to enter the next phase. Therefore, based on the traditional PAPI model, we extend a personality attribution to this model, which helps us to get a learning model based on learners pers onality as in the following table Table  1.  The learning model based on learners’ personality the learning model based on learners personality PAPI original model The expansion attribution of PAPI original model Statistic of population Name, age, sex, etc Academic Background Major, subject, curriculum, etc Learning information Brief information on learning Learning basis Score of Corresponding content scoring Master, understanding, knowledge, know what, know so little Management Brief management information Character Cartel 16 kinds of character attribution Relationship Relationship with teachers, etc Habit of learning Fast reading 001 intensive  reading , general reading, etc Security Password Learning dependence Extensive reading, intensive reading, etc Preference Parameters of promoting interaction between human and computer  others Health situation, etc performance resume 002 current work situation and objective in future, etc  Collective Works magnum opus and proof, etc   2.2 Research on mining learners’ personality  The measure of mining learners personality is to gather learner sample from internet, collect some basic information of the sample and analyze the relationship between learners personality a nd his learning behavior 2.2.1The Personality Mining Method Definition 1 Let C={c1, c2,ƒ, cn} be an attribute set and Vi be the cis range \( ci 002 C 1 002 Vi, the two-tuple \(ci, vij an attribute pattern of {ci 2 attribute pattern of attribute set Ck and the Cl, Ck Cl is not empty and Ck, Cl belong to C, then patternk patternl is an attribute pattern of the attribute set Ck Cl 001  002 003 Definition 2 Let P={p1, p2,ƒ, pm} be an personality attribute set with 3 aspects related with the learners personalized learning--the characteristic, the motivation and the style. Then the pers onality pattern is an attribute pattern of P\002\(P \002 002 P Definition 3 Behaviour pattern is the quantitative description of learning behavior characteristic. Let B={b1 b2,ƒ, bl} be the set of the behavior characteristic, then the behavior pattern is an attribute pattern of B\002\(B \002 002 B Definition 4 The Personality mining refers to that through the analysis of sam ple learners learning behaviour pattern and the personality p attern, gain th e rule between them and based on the rule automatically acquire the learners personality pattern In Internet learning envi ronment, learner's learning 
403 


behaviour pattern is heterogeneous and diverse 2 the personality pattern has many dimensions and most attribute values are numerical. Simply using the conventional data mining algorithm will cause a high level of complexity and low precision In view of the problem, we proposed the working mechanism of the personality mining algorithm as shown in Figure 1 Investigation of personality Sample database of learner's personality Analysisi of associative rules Mergering of personality attribute statistical analysis Obtaining personality Learning log Database of personality after mergering Pattern of learner's behavior Rules between personality and behavior  Fig  .1 illustrative diagram of  personality mining  Obtain the personality pattern through the 0017 investigation of the sam ple learners personality, and reduce its dimensions by combining the personality attributes Obtain the study behaviour pattern through 0018 statistical analysis of the learning journal Through the association analysis of the personality 0019 characteristic and the behaviour pattern, mine the behaviorpersonality rule According to the rule, reason the current learner's 001 behaviour pattern, and thus obtain the learner's personality characteristic  2.2.2 Description of learning behavior pattern  The learning behavior pattern is description of learning behavior characteristic. Let H={h1, h2, h3,ƒƒ hn}, and H is a set of learning behavior characteristic. Among them, hj is a kind of learning behavior \(such as number of browsing Courseware\hen a person has hJ,hK, two kinds of learning behavior then its learni ng behavior pattern is the subset of H {hJ,hK}.attention that the description of learning behavior characteristic is a quantitative description If the number of browsing courseware is three times, the value of hJ is 3, and so on . Thus the learning behavior pattern could be expressed as a certain number set Corresponding each learning behavior ,the set has a corresponding number value  2.2.3 Acquisition of Association Rules between personality and learning behavior  The personality characteristic is gained through matching the current learners behaviour pattern with the rules antecedent. The process is as follows Step1: Match the learners behaviour pattern item by item with the rule's antecedent and thus obtain a set of personality attribute values Step2: If there is an attribute with inconsistent attribute values, take the one produced by the rule with the highest confidence Step3: Use the product of personality attribute value and the corresponding weight to construct the personality characteristic vector Step4: According to the personality characteristic vector, classify the learners according to the result of personality clustering. Contrast the data and its result can confirm the accuracy of the personality mining method  2.3 Evaluation of learners’ cognitive level Because of different learning background, cognition ability, the original knowledge level and personalized characteristic, the questi on which learners propose would be different. This kind of difference lies not only in the difference in information and knowledge, but more importantly in the depth of information, namely the depth of knowledge presentation. Therefore 002 it cant simply give the same answer to those different learners through the intelligent QA system. On the contrary, it should offer explaining with different depth according to different learners. Here it involves an evaluation on the learners cognitive level, and a certain degree of explanation is to be provided according to the evaluation. Thus, we proposed a kind of evaluation me thod based on learning background and critical knowledge. It can obtain the approximate cognitive level under the critical knowledge or the question By analyzing, statistics th e relationship of question and learning background of learners. In this foundation, it can realize navigation based on th e question explanation about critical knowledge …that is expansion of the auto-adapted depth  3. Design of an Intelligent QA platform based on model of learner’s personality 3.1 The frame of QA system and the function of each module The Intelligent QA platform based on model of 
404 


learners personality consist of two parts: the traditional QA system and extensive intelligence QA system. The Extensive part includes: ac quisition of learners personality module; estimating of learners cognitive level module auto-adapted content present QA module and analysis and statistical of question module  Figure 1.the function frame of an intelligent QA system based on learners personality 3.2 Key issue to the implementation of the system 3.2.1 Auto-adapted presentation of the knowledge  Auto-adapted presentation of the knowledge includes the acquisition of question auto-adapted connection and the auto-adapting of explanations depth. We use the traditional method---matching algorithm based on the keyword splitting to solute au to-adapted presenting of the knowledge. In order to solute the auto-adapting of explanations depth. We shoul d provide some explanations with different depth and construct the attribution of the answers depth, the variable can be described by fuzzy variable, such as {Shallow, moderate, deep}, at last, we operator the learners cognitive level and learner personalized model with corresponding weight. Through these methods, we get the value of the answers depth attribution and obtain the auto-adapted answer from the answer depth attribution value 3.2.2 Statistic and analysis of the questions  We can grasp the distribu tion status and laws by statistical and analysis ques tions. The distribution status and laws can reflect the effect ion and loophole of the corresponding knowledge on net work, then we should adjust the teaching contents The statistical and analysis of questions in traditional QA system focused on chapter or knowledge. As we have introduced a intelligent QA system based on learners personality, the corresponding statistics and analysis should also increase statistics and analysis based on the model of learners personality, especially to analysis the relationship between learners academic background and distribution status of inquired questions thus, the algorithm based on learners cognitive level and auto-adapted answer under learners personality can be optimized well  4. Conclusion  The intelligent QA system based on learners personality can be used  to realize the communication between teachers and students, help students to be clear about the point of the knowl edge and obtain the required answer in network education. Additionally, it can be applied to various fields, such as the building of medical and hygiene website. Regardle ss of what kind of domain each learner with different request can get answer in different depth. The in telligent QA system based on learners personality is promising in the application The emphasis of this paper is to propose an intelligent QA system based on learners personality, and the key technology of how to realize it. We hope that it can offer readers a certain reference  References  Lin Jian Research on personalized inform ation service in web-based environment. Information research. 2006, \(12  SHEN Rui- min.A Personalized Digital Service Model Based on Web. Microelectronics & Computer.2001, \(1  Liu Jianguo. Research on individualized  service model for teaching resources. Master degree papers of Northwest University. 2004, 4  ZHANG Yu-guang JU Yan-hui. Study on the Technology of Information Filtering in the Personalized Information Service Information Science.2005, \(1  ZHAO Liang. Algorithm de sign for personalization recommendation systems. Journal of Computer Research and Development.2002,\(8 
405 


hash implementation\or costly further processing \(such as tree-building or transformation expected 3.3 Exploiting Structure Recurrence Structure information can be exploited to speedup various XML processing stages from tokenization well-formedness check and validation, to tree building transformation and transmission. In this subsection we describe in detail how Structure Encoding improves performance in each of these stages 3.3.1 Tokenization Tokenization scans the source document, checks syntax, and generates t okens. Tokens have types as well as values. In Structure Encoding, token types include: Start Element, End Element, Immediate Close Attribute Name, Attribute Value, Namespace Attribute Name, Namespace Attribute Value, Text, Whitespace Comment, Doctype, and Processing Instruction. Note that an attribute is composed of two tokens, an Attribute Name token, and an Attribute Value token Also notice that namespace attributes are treated differently from other attributes Tokens values are in the form of strings. For example the value of an Attribute Name token is the name of the attribute, while the valu e of an Attribute Value token is the value of the attribute It is quite evident that two token lists generated from two documents of the same structure have tokens of exactly the same types, and they appear in the same order. Furthermore, other than tokens of types Text and Attribute Value, token values are also the same This has two implications: one is that they occupy the same number of characters in the source document; the other is that if the token in the first document is syntactically correct, th en the corresponding token in the second document must also be syntactically correct Structure Encoding exploits these facts. It caches token lists for document structures. When a new document comes in, it first acquires the structure ID of the document by either hashing or extracting the ID embedded in the document. It then uses the ID to retrieve cached token list for the document structure Tokenization of the incoming document can be greatly improved in case of a cache-hit because  The type of next token is known, so there is no need to identify token type of the next construct  For most tokens, the tokenizer only needs to skip a known number of characters. For example, if next token is of type Doctype, then it only needs to skip a number of bytes based on the length of the value of the cached token  For most tokens, the tokenizer does not need to store values for them as it can share with the cached token. In above case, there is no need to create a string to store the Doctype construct 3.3.2 Well-formedness Check and Validation Well-formedness check in a typical XML parser verifies that  There is exactly one top-level element  All open tags have a corresponding close tag or an immediate close construct  All tags are correctly nested  Attributes of an element have different names  Namespace attributes of an element have different names  All namespace prefixes have corresponding namespace attributes defined in scope Note that none of these activities involve Text and Attribute Value tokens. As a result, if document D1 is well-formed, and document D2 has the same structure as D1, then D2 must also be well-formed. So there is no need for well-formedness check on D2 XML validation checks if a document conforms to the rules of a Document Type Definition \(DTD Schema. Continuing with above example, if D1 is valid for schema S, then D2 must also be valid for S if its Text and Attribute Value tokens are valid for S That is, validation of D2 is re duced to the validation of its Text and Attribute Value constructs 3.3.3 Tree Building Tree-based parsers need to build a tree representation of the document. This tree building process involves operations such as the allocation \(and later deallocation nodes, and the linking of allocated nodes into a tree Using structure information, once we know that the incoming document \(D2\as a previous document \(D1\operations can be optimized in following ways xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8 se id=c5bae136d32e1d7763a1a970d186e0ff books  books Figure 4. Sample Document with Structure ID Embedded 
315 


 Tree reuse: if D1 had previously constructed a tree and no longer needs it, then D2 can reuse it. All it needs to do is to reassign values for text and attribute nodes Values for text nodes are extracted from corresponding Text Tokens, while the values of attribute nodes are extracted from corresponding Attribute Value tokens Since, for a given value, the rank of its corresponding token in the token list is fixed, this reassignment process is extremely simple. This tree reuse approach obviates the operations for D1 to de-allocate \(or garbage collect the tree, the operations for D2 to allocate objects for each of its nodes and assign node values, as well as the operations for D2 to link these nodes  Fast tree duplication: in case D1 still needs its document tree, a duplicate of D1’s document tree is first made for D2. Fast tree duplication is possible by either preduplication when system is idle, or by re-organizing also could occur when system is idle\D1’s document tree so that nodes of the tree are aligned in an array, and that tree duplication is reduced to one simple memory copy  Tree sharing: by replacing pointers for text and attribute value pointers with corresponding offsets in token lists D1 and D2 can share the document tree. This tree sharing approach is ideal for reducing memory requirements if system expects concurrent use of documents of identical structures \(such as in a concurrent server environment\simple implementation of two in-memory documents of a same structure sharing the in-memory representation of the structure. Each document contains a pointer to the structure, along with a list of texts and attributes values 3.3.4 Transformation An XSL-based transformer generates output from a SS system has SS and the structure of D \(ST arrives, then this transformati on can be split into two phases  The Pre-Processing \(PreP arrives. It takes SS and ST as input, and generates Stencil SN, see below  The After Arrival Processing \(AAP when D arrives. It uses SN and D’s token list as input and generates the same output as would a usual XSLT processor for SS and D PreP is a partial transformation. It is a form of partial evaluation based on the partial document information contain in the structure of the document. Many costly XSLT operations, such as template matching and node selection, can be carried out in the PreP phase, so that they won’t be involved in the AAP phase, thus reducing the latency between the arrival of the document and the completion of the transformation The result of the PreP phase is a Stencil which assuming transformation result is in the form of text, is a list containing elements of the following types  String, which is the result of fully executed XSLT operations. \(Note that there are no adjacent strings in the list as they can be concatenated  Future Expressions which can only be fully evaluated after the document is received. Future Expressions can’t be resolved during the PreP phase as their values depend on the values of text nodes and/or attributes. Future Expressions are evaluated at the AAP phase, taking the token list of the incoming document as input  Branches, which contains a Conditional Expression, a True Stencil which is selected when the Conditional Fi g ure 5. Documents of Identical Structure Sharin g Document Tree 
316 


Expression yields true, and a False Stencil which is selected when the Conditional Expression yields false A sample Stencil is shown in Figure 6 and described in section 4.3 The AAP phase uses the token list of the document to resolve the Stencil, by resolv ing the elements in the Stencil in order. String elements are directly emitted to the output. Future Expressions are evaluated, the result of which then converted to String and sent to the output. For each Branch element, depending on the evaluation result of its Conditional Expression, either the True Stencil or the False Stencil is selected and recursively resolved Note that Future Expressions can only take document token list as input and doesn’t have access to XSLT variables. As a result, if an expression depends on an XSL variable whose value can’t be determined at PreP phase \(because its value is conditionally updated by a conditional element\no transformation optimization for this combination of stylesheet and structure 3.3.5 Compression for Efficient Transmission Efficient transmission of XML documents is particularly important in mobile environments Structure recurrence can be exploited for compression and efficient transmission by avoiding the redundant transmission of structural information and by compressing recurring test nodes and attribute values  Assuming sender S first sends document A to receiver R and later sends to R document B which has the same structure as document A, if S knows that R has locally kept the structure information for A, then S only needs to send the structure identification of B, along with the text node and attribute values of B. Efficiency is achieved by replacing the structure of document B with the \(much shorter\identification of the structure of the document  Further, the text node and attribute values in document A has a 1-to-1 mapping with those in document B. If sender S is aware that receiver R also keeps text node and attribute values of document A, then when S detects that a value in B is the same as the corresponding value in A, S only needs to signal R to reuse the value in A, instead of retransmitting it The combination of the two offers potentially high compression ratio with very low computation overhead Note that it is not necessary for the sender and the receiver to be both aware of the existence of the compression. For example, in wireless mobile environments, the gateway of a mobile device can serve as the proxy between the outside world and the mobile device: XML documents are transmitted in compressed form between a mobile device and its gateway, while the gate way and the outside world communicate in usual text form 4 IMPLEMENTATION We have implemented in Java a XML tokenizer, a DOM-style parser, and a XSLT processor, based on Structure Encoding. The DOM-style parser is implemented as an exten sion to kXML, while the XSLT processor is implemented as an extension to XT 4.1 Tokenizer The tokenizer operates in three different modes  The Swift mode, which is activated when the incoming document contains sender assigned structure ID, and that cached token list for the structure is found  The Hash mode, which is activated when the incoming document does not contain sender assigned structure ID The hash function we use is an implementation of MD5 which generates 128-bit digests  The Nature mode, which is normal XML tokenization and is activated under all other conditions Fi g ure 6. An Exam p le of Transformation Stencil 
317 


Under Swift mode, the tokenizer checks each token in the token list, and takes different action depending on the types of the token  If it is a Text token, it reads a text string \(delimited by and may contain entity references\ the document character stream, and uses the text string to replace the value of the token  If it is a Start Element token, the tokenizer first skips a number of characters from the document character stream. The exact number of characters is determined by the length of the name of the element. It then enters a loop that reads attributes of the element. Within the body of the loop, it first checks if the next token is Attribute Name. If it is not, then the processing for the Start Element token completes. Otherwise, it skips the name of the attributes, reads the value of the attribute and updates the value of the next token \(which must be of type Attribute Value  In all other cases, the tokenizer simply skips a number of characters. The exact number of characters is determined by the type of the token and the length of the value of the token In the Nature mode, the tokenizer reads in XML constructs, makes sure that they are syntactically correct, and then converts them into tokens. Operations in Hash mode are mostly the same, except that the tokenizer also needs to send structure characters to the hash function for ID generation 4.2 Structure Encoding Based Parser Figure 7 shows a structure encoding based XML parser. It has three components: The Tokenizer as described above  The Structure Manager, which contains a cache manager that manages the reuse of document trees, and an optional Structure Optimizer, which does tree optimizations described in section 3.3.3  The Controller, which includes an interface with the kXML DOM parser. It also includes a Value Loader which does text node and attribute value reassignments The Controller falls back to kXML DOM parser, by passing to it a SAX parser implemented on top of the tokenizer, when it is unable to get a reusable document tree from the Structure Manager. Each document structure has a mapping table that associates a text node or an attribute value object with a token in the token list. The Value Loader in the Controller uses this mapping table to quickly grab text or attribute values from incoming document’s token list, and reassigns them to corresponding text node or attribute value objects. Figure 8 illustrates using Structure Encoding based parser to parse the book record document shown in Figure 1 4.3 Structure Encoding Based Transformer Figure 9 shows the components of a Structure Encoding based transformer hosted in the XT XSLT processor. Of its four components, the tokenizer and the Structure Manager are the same as in the parser The two different components are the Pre-processor and the Transformation controller Pre-processor carries out the PreP phase of structure encoding based transformation using stylesheet and document structure to generate transformation Stencil Within the document structu re, the text and attribute nodes are changed to objects of a special type, which upon access, throws a special exception which uses an integer index to indicate which text node or attribute is accessed. The structure is then treated as a regular document and fed to XT along with the stylesheet. We have also extended XT, so that any expression that may catch the above-mentioned special exception is extended into a Future Expression, which can be evaluated by taking only t oken list as input. A Future Expression in turn throws itself as a special exception which is then either caught by another Future Expression or, eventually, by an action. An action generates a result segment, which can be one of the following  A string, in the case when there is no special exception caught  A Future Expression, when one or more special exceptions are caught, and  A Branch, when the action is an IfAction generated from an xsl:if or xsl:choose XSL element.The Stencil Resolver in the Transformation Controller is called in the AAP phase after the source document arrives and a transformation is requested. It retrieves the Stencil using the stylesheet and the document structure as key, then uses the token list for the source document as input to Figure 7. A Structure Encod ing Based XML Parser 
318 


solve the Stencil, using methods described in section 3.3.4 Figure 10 shows a simple XSL stylesheet used to convert the book record document shown in Figure 1 into HTML format. Note th at it contains an xsl:if element, which tests if the “special” price is greater than zero, and if the condition is true, it outputs an onsale price. Figure 11 shows the result of the transformation Figure 6 shows the Stencil generated by the PreP phase, where i  i th entry in the mapping ta ble \(see section 4.2 Stencil” contains a Branch, which has a “GreaterThan Number Relation” that can’t be pre-evaluated, as it depends on the number value of a Text or Attribute Value token. The True Stencil of the Branch is a simple Stencil, while its False Stencil is empty 4.4 Structure Encoding Based Compression The implementation of Structure Encoding based compression for transmission is straight forward. The sender and receiver both maintain an encoding table Each entry of the table is a mapping from a structure ID to a cached document structure as well as a list of template values for attr ibutes and text nodes associated Figure 8  Example of Structure Encoding Based Figure 9. Components of a Structure Encoding Based XSLT Processor xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8 xsl:stylesheet version="1.0 xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform xsl:template match="book html head title><xsl:value-of select="title"/></title head body b><xsl:text>Author: </xsl:text></b><xsl:value-of select="author"/><br b><xsl:text>Price: </xsl:text></b><xsl:value-of select="price xsl:if test="special > 0 b><xsl:text> On Sale For: </xsl:text><xsl:value-of select="special"/></b xsl:if><br b><xsl:text>Cover: </xsl:text></b><xsl:value-of select="size/@cover"/><br b><xsl:text>Publisher: </xsl:text></b><xsl:value-of select="publisher"/><br b><xsl:text>ISBN: </xsl:text></b><xsl:value-of select="isbn"/><br br body html xsl:template xsl:stylesheet Figure 10. Transforming the Book Record into Figure 11. Result HTML File from Sample Transformation html head title>Book on XML</title head body b>Author: </b>Foo<br b>Price: </b>49.99<b> On Sale For: 34.99</b br b>Cover: </b>Paperback<br b>Publisher: </b>ABC Inc; 1st edition \(Jan. 2002\<br b>ISBN: </b>1111111111<br br body html 
319 


Table 2. Measurement Results \(all numbers are in milliseconds Tokenization Parsing Transformation 100% Cache Hit 0% Cache Hit 100% Cache Hit 0% Cache Hit Document Nature Swif t Hash kDOM Sender Assign Receiver Assign Sender Assign Receiver Assign XT Sender Assign Receiver Assign Sender Assign Receiver Assign axis 7.1 4.8 9.5 11.4 5 9.6 10.7 13 36.3 6.9 11.4 36.3 39.3 Backwards 33.3 7.4 43.4 60.7 7.6 43.7 56.1 66.6 232.2 12.9 49.5 232.7 252.4 chart 18.5 7.7 24 32.1 7.8 24.9 30.1 36.3 117.8 21.9 39.7 118 129.3 book 15.1 8.6 18.2 24.4 8.8 18.5 21.1 25.5 48.3 11.5 20.9 48.9 55.2 game 33.1 7.2 43.2 60.7 7.6 43.5 56.4 67.3 92.2 8.9 45.1 92 105.5 midsummer 1990 913.4 2311 5 4686.9 997 2332.5 4012.8 4360.8 7398.5 1475 3068 7268.1 7555.2 nitfstylized 67.3 25.1 76 105.3 27 77.3 93.8 107.7 178.3 34.4 85 188.5 204.3 recipes 164.3 99 180.1 249.2 107.6 184.8 209.9 234.3 574.4 144.3 224.1 566 585.1 sort 129.8 32.2 159.8 248.2 33 163.6 242.3 281.5 1094.9 55.6 188.1 1121.9 1174.4 sp 36.2 21.5 40 53.7 23.2 40.6 45.5 51.3 122.8 28.2 45.2 126.6 138.9 total 18.6 6.8 24.5 32.4 7.4 25 30.6 36.2 53.9 7.6 25.5 54 61.5 trend 36.5 10.8 41 62.1 10.4 41.1 66.3 70.9 2249.3 56.9 89.1 2249.3 2279.5 wai 9.1 4.5 12.5 14.2 4.6 12.6 13.4 17.1 96.4 7.7 15.8 99.9 105 with the structure \(Note that document structures and template values can be flushed out of the cache and reconstructed from files stored in persistent storage The first document of a given structure will be sent uncompressed. But an entry will be added to the encoding tables on both sender and receiver sides, with the attribute and text valu es of this first document used as template values. A following document of the given structure will be encoded as a two-byte integer indicating the index of th e structure in the encoding table, followed by the list of attribute and text string values. A special 1-byte symbol replaces any value that is an exact match of its corresponding template value Such compression is used between a mobile handset and its service gateway in cellular environments. Note that compression happens on a document send from the handset, through the gateway, to a server on the Internet, as well as on a document received by the handset through the gateway Table 1. XML Documents Used in the Experiments, and Th eir Corresponding Stylesheets Document Size in KB Stylesheet axis 0.38 Tests XPath selection along the different axes backwards 2.62 Reverses order of elements using the document used in game chart 1.29 Generates an HTML chart of some sales data book 1.21 Convertin book record to HTML game 2.62 Produces a HTML table of the data midsummer 146 Converting the play to HTML nitf-stylized 5.79 NITFML to HTML recipes 16.7 Converting Recipes in XML to HTML sort 10.3 Sorting input tree according to element name sp 3.53 Web site construction kit total 1.31 Reports on sales data trend 1.9 Computes trends in the input data wai 0.58 Schematron validator for WAI docs 
320 


5 EVALUATION Evaluation experiments described in this section are conducted on a TI OMAP 1511 Innovator device which runs in frequencies up to 200MHz. It has 32MB ROM as well as 32MB RAM. The OS used is a version of embedded Linux, and the JVM used is Intent from TAO Group The source documents and stylesheets used for evaluation are randomly selected from Sarvega’s XSLTBench and DataPower’s XSLTMark [17  after initially excluding some unrealistic transformations. We select these two benchmarks as they are influential indust ry benchmark and that they both support XSLT benchmarking. Note that some of the large source documents are less likely to have recurrent structures in real-world applications. We included them regardless as they might help us understand the implication of document size on system performance. Table 1 lists sizes of sample documents and the transformation stylesheets used for them. Table 2 lists the raw numbers used in following discussions Documents are fully read into memory before any measurement starts to minimize external disturbance Warm-up runs are always conducted prior to real measurement runs 5.1 Tokenization Figure 12 compares the speed of Swift mode and Hash mode against the speed of Nature mode tokenization The Swift mode is by far the fasted, having a median speedup of 2.40 over Nature mode. The median speed of Hash mode is about 81% of that of Nature mode which means a median hashing overhead of about 23.5%. In the worst case, this overhead is about 37.4 for wai  5.2 DOM-style Parsing Figure 13 and Figure 14 compare speed of Structure Encoding based parsing against that of kXML parsing for both Receiver ID Assigning and Sender ID Assigning. In Receiver ID Assigning, the underlying tokenizer always uses Hash mode, while in Sender ID Assigning, the tokenizer uses Swift mode when cache hit ratio is 100% \(i.e., structure of incoming document is always in cache\ode when cache hit ratio is 0 Figure 13 shows the results for the ideal case when cache hit ratio is 100%: the median relative speed is 4.34 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 1.35 when Receiver ID Assigning is used. The best case is in backwords and game which use the same source document\to 8 under Sender ID Assigning Figure 14 shows the results for the worst case when cache hit ratio is 0%: the median relative speed is 1.07 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 0.90 \(or an overhead of %11.1\ID Assigning is used. The worst sample is wai where the overhead is about 20.5% under Receiver ID Assigning. The reason Figure 12. Comparing Performance of Tokenization Modes Figure 14. Comparing Structure Encoding Based XML Parsing and kXML Parsing \(Cache Hit Ratio = 0 Figure 13. Comparing Structure Encoding Based XML Parsin g and kXML Parsin g Cache Hit Ratio 100  
321 


that Structure Encoding is a little faster than kXML even when cache hit ratio is 0 is likely because of the fact that, while we use kXML for tree building, we modified it slightly to interface it with our tokenizer which resulted in differences in execution traces and slight differences in runtime performance when execute in JVM Overall, these two figures demonstrate that Structure Encoding based parsing provides substantial speedup when structure recurrence is frequent, and incurs low overhead when such recurrence is rare 5.3 Transformation Similarly, Figure 15 and Figure 16 compare transformation speed of Structure Encoding based XSL processor against that of XT for both Sender ID Assigning and Receiver ID Assigning. Again, under Receiver ID Assigning, the underlying tokenizer always uses Hash mode, while under Sender ID Assigning, the tokenizer uses either Swift mode or Nature mode Figure 15 shows the results for the ideal case when cache hit ratio is 100%: the median relative speed of Structure Encoding based implem entation is 5.38 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 2.72 when Receiver ID Assigning is used. The best case is trend  where the relative speed is over 39 for Sender ID Assigning, and over 25 for Receiver ID assigning Figure 16 shows the results for the worst case when cache hit ratio is 0%: the median relative speed is 0.996 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 0.918 or an overhead of 8.9 is used. The worst sample is nitf-stylized where the overhead is about 14.6% under Receiver ID Assigning These two figures show that Structure Encoding based XSL processing offers even higher potential speedup than parsing, yet incurs lower overhead in worst cases This is understandable as, typi cally, a large portion of operations in transformation is for costly structurerelated operations, which we have pre-processed offline. Note that, as long as structure recurrence is frequent, the potential improvement is very high \(up to a median relative speed of 2.72\even if the receiver has to calculate structure ID through hashing 5.4 Compression We conducted an experiment to examine the effectiveness of Structure Encoding based compression. In the experiment, for each sample document, we randomly changed the values of 3 rd 8 th  13 th i.e., one in every 5, starting from the 3 rd  attribute and text node values. Thus our experiment Figure 16. Comparing Structu re Encoding Based Transformation and XT  Cache Hit Ratio 0  Figure 15. Comparing Structu re Encoding Based Transformation and XT  Cache Hit Ratio = 100  Table 3. Compression and its effect on tokenization speed \(Assuming changes in 20% of the text and attribute values Document Size in KB Comp Size Byte Natur e ms Swift ms Comp  ms axis 0.38 48 7.1 4.8 0.8 backwards 2.62 81 33.3 7.4 1.8 chart 1.29 91 18.5 7.7 1.3 book 1.21 129 15.1 8.6 1.1 game 2.62 81 33.1 7.2 1.8 midsummer 146 20760 1990 913.4 111.7 nitf-stylized 5.79 564 67.3 25.1 4.0 recipes 16.7 2355 164.3 99 11.4 sort 10.3 752 129.8 32.2 8.8 sp 3.53 554 36.2 21.5 2.6 total 1.31 91 18.6 6.8 1.3 trend 1.9 169 36.5 10.8 2.7 wai 0.58 15 9.1 4.5 0.6 
322 


assumes that around 20% of the attribute and text values are different from the template values Table 3 lists results from this experiment. The third column of the table shows the number of bytes transmitted for each sample document, while the 6 th column shows the time used to construct tokens from the compressed document. The table shows that, under above-described setup, the amount of data transmitted are reduced to 2.6% to 15.7% of the original size second column, listed in KB time is reduced to 5.4% to 11.3% of the Nature mode tokenization time, or 11.5% to 25% of the Swift mode tokenization time 5.5 Discussion Since in our implementations, we make changes to base systems \(KXML and XT changes are required to implement Structure Encoding performance differences demonstrated in this section are caused by differences in techniques rather than differences in implementations Our experiments clearly show that Structure Encoding can, potentially, greatly improve the efficiency of XML processing with relatively low penalty for worst cases. The worst case scenario happens when a receiver uses hash function to identify the structure of a document, only to find out that the document structure is not in cache. The penalty it pays for such worst case scenario, 11.1% for DOM-style parsing and 8.9% for transformation, can easily be compensated by future structure recurrence. Such cache-miss penalty is negligible when sender-assigning scheme is used Systems that are conscious of such client-side penalty can let the sender or anyone in the middle of the transmission path to assign ID without altering the semantics of the message or document Although we didn’t measure the impact of compression on parsing and transformation, it can be inferred from tables 2 and 3. For example, in the book case, with tokenization time reduced from 8.6ms Swift mode\s \(compressed\e will likely be further reduced from 8.8ms to around 1.3ms compared with 24.4ms for KDOM\Similarly transformation time may be further reduced from 11.5ms to around 4.0ms \(compared with 48.3ms for XT\Encoding based XML compression offers additi onal, significant performance improvements for XML parsing and transformation in mobile environments, where closelycoupled proxies commonly exists. With compression turned off, Structure Enc oding is fully compatible with Web specifications and can be used between any two Internet hosts, and it still offer very significant performance improvements when there is structure recurrence Without compression, for documents with recurrent structures, tokenization and structure hashing cost dominates the overall cost for parsing, and is the major part of the cost for transformation. Tokenization and structure hashing however are relatively simple operations that may be implemented in hardware with low cost. \(In fact, some mobile chipsets already have hardware implementation of hash functions such as MD5 for security purposes implementation can reduce tokenization and structure hashing cost to a fifth of the current cost, then there will be additional substantial improvement for the parsing and transformation of most of the documents used in our experiments In our system, a document havi ng a structure slightly different \(e.g., added a new element\from a previous structure will not be able to reuse the structure processing result of the previous structure. However our system pays off as long as this new, slightly different structure recurs in future documents 6 CONCLUSION, LIMITATIONS, AND FUTURE WORK In this paper we motivated exploiting structure recurrence to speedup XML processing in mobile environments, by reduci ng structure related transmission and processing costs. We presented the concept of Structure Encoding, and described approaches to quickly identifying recurring structures including one using collision-resistant hash function We explained in detail how to use structure encoding to speedup XML transmission, tokenization, treebuilding, and transformation. We described our implementation of st ructure encoding based tokenizer DOM parser \(based on kXML\processor \(based on XT\pression scheme. Our experiments conducted on a mobile test-bed demonstrated dramatic performance improvement in the presence of structure recurrence and low overhead otherwise. In ideal cases structure encoding offers speedups of up to 7 for parsing and over 38 for XSL transformation, and up to 97.4% in size reduction when 20% of the text and attribute values change Structure encoding, however, is not applicable to all XML applications. Rather, it is more applicable to data-centric XML processing than to document-centric XML processing. A user randomly browsing Web pages is not likely to have high structure recurrence probabilities 
323 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


