  Towards a Procedural Model for Sustainable Information Systems Management Nils-Holger Schmidt Universit‰t Gˆttingen nschmid@uni-goettingen.de   Koray Erek Technische Universit‰t Berlin koray.erek@ww.tu-berlin.de  Lutz M. Kolbe Universit‰t Gˆttingen lkolbe@uni-goettingen.de   R¸diger Zarnekow Technische Universit‰t Berlin ruediger.zarnekow@ww.tuberlin.de Abstract  The increasing economical, ecological and social significance of information systems \(IS\emands reorientation for IS management. Ever-growing energy 
consumption, waste streams, data amounts and performance expectations require management concepts that consider these forces. While concepts of corporate social responsibility or sustainability have been applied to other industries, IS is still lacking a theoretical and conceptional foundation. The purpose of this paper is to apply the concept of sustainability into the field of IS management. As a contribution to the ongoing discussion of çGreen ITé, we provide a theoretical foundation and justification of sustainable IS management using the resource based view Thereafter, we develop a sustainable IS management procedural model, that lines out the most important steps towards the implementation of sustainability within IS organizations. This model should provide IS managers, such as CIOs, with a framework for including sustainability in business operations 
 1. Introduction  Due to the growing global impact of IS 1 on economy, ecology and the society, IS management is increasingly challenged to take the concept of sustainability into account. Sustainable management can be understood as a concept of long-term simultaneous optimization of economical, ecological and social objectives to generate a lasting superior financial performance for the business [2 an In 2008, the global information and communication technology \(ICT\ spending is expected to grow by 10.3 percent to over $US 3.7 trillion, accounting a share of 6.4 percent of the World s gross domestic product GDP r om t h e w o rl d 
s 50 most innovative companies 16 are highly ICT  The ecological impact of the IS business has been discussed under the headline of Green IT which has been the key topic of the CeBIT 2008, the world's largest ICT trade fair, showing its practical relevance for the ICT business. The global ICT industry is   1 Henceforth information systems \(IS\ are defined as a combination of information and communication technology \(ICT\, people processes, and organizational mechanisms, to gather, process, store use and disseminate information to improve organizational 
performance [1  claimed to account for approximately two percent of global carbon dioxide \(CO2\a figure equivalent to the aviation industry st u d y f r o m 2005 on t h e g l obal  power consumption of servers revealed that servers worldwide, including related cooling and auxiliary infrastructure, used 123 000 Giga Watt hours \(GWh electricity, an amount comparable to the power consumption of a country such as Poland og le by itself, operates about 450,000 servers consuming nearly 800 GWh a y  Social and ecological problems additionally derive from waste of electronic products \(e-waste\which is increasing three to five percent each year, making it the fastest growing waste stream in the industrialized 
wo f o rm at ion an d c o m m unication eq u i p m e n t  as well as monitors make up 25 percent of the approximately 20 to 50 million tons of e-waste generated each year. This means that a minimum of 5 million tons per year of ICT related waste is being produced, an amount comparable to the weight of almost 9000 fully loaded Airbus A380 passenger planes containing dangerous metals, such as lead mercury and cadmium However, sustainability in IS does not only cover the aspect of Green IT Further challenges derive from information waste clogging up IS. Analysts 
from IDC \(International Data Corporation pect an increase in the amount of digital information produced from 281 exabytes in 2007 to 1,800 exabytes in 2011 The above facts not only point to a huge need, but also to a great complexity of sustainable management in IS. Porter and Reinha r g u e th at co m p a n ie s  have no other choice than to deal with sustainability and that the challenge has moved from whether to how to integrate corporate sustainability into day-today management decisions. Despite the hype in trade press, especially concerning Green IT 
the topic of sustainability in IS management is still lacking theoretical foundation. The research questions arising from this are   What is the scope of sustainable IS management   Which theoretical foundations could be applied to the concept of sustainability   What are the links between sustainable IS management and business value Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


    How could sustainability be efficiently implemented in IS management In order to address these questions, we need to create a clear view on IS management and the concept of sustainability. Building up on this, the next step is to line out the connection between sustainable IS management and business benefits. For this we are proposing the resource based view \(RBV\ill argue that sustainable IS management helps to accumulate, secure and foster competitive advantages therefore leading to superior long-term performance of IS. Consequently, we introduce a procedural model for sustainable IS management, which provides theoretical foundation to the topic and a starting point for further research in this field  2. Towards Sustainable IS Management  2.1. The value chain of IS business  In order to define the field of research it is necessary to identify the relevant scope of IS management and to outline the key activities of IS product and service provisioning. The IS business consists of internal \(in-house\nd external organizations that provide products and services that can be assigned to ICT, including hardware, software and services. These types of enterprises generally follow the processes source  make  deliver and return  through which the value creation takes place. The management of these processes defines the scope of IS management. The foundation for this process oriented concept originated from the Supply Chain Operations Reference \(SCOR\ model [1 w e ll kn o w n  v a l u e  chain concept in industrial management, which makes it applicable for IS hardware providers. The transfer of the SCOR model to IS software and IS service providers has been done by Zarnekow et. al. by developing the integrated information management IIM  T h e IIM m odel f o cu s e s on t h e w h ole  IS value chain including customer and supplier relationship, while traditional IS management concepts are focusing on the management of applications  Figure 1 illustrates the value chain of IS business including a return process and the stakeholders interests The govern process encompasses the strategic functions, procedures, and measures, which ensure that allocated IS products and services contribute to the business goal achievements. In particular, the IS governance determines the supervisory functions organizational structures, and processes. The core tasks are divided into strategic alignment, value delivery risk management, controlling, and resource management The source process covers all tasks within the supplier relationship management. Usually, IS organizations purchase hardware components, software solutions, personnel or other technological resources These resources are used in the production phase and are transformed to marketable IS products The make process comprises all tasks for the management of IS product and service production Based on an industrial management procedure, the make process is divided into a portfolio management, a development management, and a production management. The focus is therefore the efficient planning, development and production of IS components The delivery process is responsible for the customer relationship management and depicts the classical sales part. The main objective is to transform customer demands into internal requirement specifications for IS production    Deliver Management of customer relationship Make Management of service production Source Management of service supplier relationships Source Govern \(Company context IS organization IS product and service provision internal\ customer IS product and service acceptance  Make Market internal/external Stakeholder interests M a r k e t Deliver  Return  Figure 1 Value chain of information systems product and service provision Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  Otherwise, it communicates internal capabilities and basic conditions to the customer. Hence, the delivery process has a mediator function between the internal make and the customer s source process Based on the original SCOR model we include a return process into the supply chain operations. The return phase depicts the processes of recycling preserving and reusing tangible and/or intangible resources, clarifying that possessed resources or means of production used or produced in the value chain are recyclable and fundamental information \(e.g. customer requirements\as to be documented and preserved for internal analysis and future strategic directions of the company. Moreover, it ensures a lifecycle oriented view on IS products and services, including a waste management and reutilization of products in the value chain In addition, stakeholders interests are taken into account. The reason for doing so is that the diversity of stakeholders like shareholders, policy makers suppliers, labor unions, customers or others, can have a major impact on corporate - in this case IS management - performance. Summing up, the model cuts the value chain into four core processes which have to be considered simultaneously for implementing sustainability in IS management  2.2. Understanding the concept of sustainability  Sustainability has been extensively discussed within corporate management 2 under the synonyms of corporate social responsibility \(CSR\reening the business, eco-efficiency or eco-advantage. Although many studies concerning sustainable management have been introduced, sustainability in IS has not been evaluated until now. Global development and challenges \(see Section 1\ well as the general need to align IS strategy to corporate strategy, form the need for an integrated concept of sustainability in IS The word sustain derives from the Latin sustenere  its pri m a r y s e n s e i t can be  described as survival assurance meaning that an economical, ecological or social system should be preserved for future generations and, thus, necessary resources should only be exploited to a degree where it is possible to restore them within a regeneration cycle The most common definition from the Brundtland Commission defines sustainability as a development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs 20  A ll d e f i n itio n s o f su stai n a b ilit y  have the preservation of the economical, ecological   2 For some works on the topic see [2 and 15   and social system for the benefit of future generations in common. These dimensions represent the three main pillars of sustainability and are known as the triplebottom-line con T h e triple-bottom-line  concept provides a framework to companies to measure and report their performance and organizational success in relation to these pillars Especially at the business level, sustainability is mainly equated with the economical or financial sustainability e v e r, in teg rated corporate sustainability is achieved by recognizing the interdependence of the three dimensions over time and keeping an optimal balance between them  2.3. Sustainability within the resources of IS  Due to the importance of resources in sustainable management, we apply the resource based view of the firm. It argues that a firm s competitive advantage depends upon its ability to accumulate, generate deploy and secure unique and valuable resources [23 and 24  Fo llo w i n g th e RB V a su stai n a b l e co m p etiti v e  advantage evolves if the resources are also not easily duplicated by competitors [23 an h is in dicate s a  highly economically oriented understanding of sustainability. Competitors are not the only determinant of a sustainable competitive advantage Resources face various influences by stakeholder groups, thereby determine the sustainability of a competitive advantage or its loss e.g. through governmental regulation Resources can be characterized as core resources which lead to a competitive advantage over competitors, threshold resources, which are essential to be able to compete on a market and unnecessary resources, which can be neglected by the firm Focusing on resources allows us to explain differences in profitability and strategy among firms in terms of resource differences A challenge is to define what is meant by a resource. Researchers and practitioners have used a variety of different terms to talk about a firm s resources [24, 26, an a rt [25] def i n e s res o u r ce s as the basic  units of analysis and includes physical and financial assets as well as employees skills and organizational processes In this paper, we follow the definition of Hulland an h o def i n e re s o u r ces  as assets and capabilities that are available and useful in detecting and responding to market opportunities or threats  Assets and capabilities define therefore the firm s resources 3 Assets are either tangible or intangible and   3  Note: Following Wade and Hulland we view the terms capabilities competencies, and core competencies as essentially synonymous  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


  are being used in the firm s processes to create produce and/or deliver its goods and/or services to a mark s e t s can  s e rv e as in p u ts to a proces s  or as the outputs of a process r om an IS poin t of view tangible assets are, for example, information systems hardware, network infrastructure or server buildings, while intangible assets are, for instance software patents or stored information [31 an Capabilities transform inputs into outputs of higher value [28 an c l u d e f o r ex a m p l e  skills, managerial abilities or processes [29   Sustainability in IS can have two meanings: On the one hand, sustainability can be seen as a capability which a company can accumulate and possess  the other hand sustainability can be seen as a crosssectional objective that applies to all IS resources, to improve their accumulation, generation, deployment and securing, therefore generating competitive advantages. In this paper we focus on the latter perspective  3  Theoretical foundation of sustainable IS management  Since we follow the IS value chain \(Section 2.1\ we can assign three different theories for the justification of sustainable management to each of the phases Transaction cost theory \(TCT\ be applied to source production theory \(PT\ to make and stakeholder theory \(ST\ to govern and deliver  Resources are either produced internally from other resources or acquired from the firm s environment  T h e T C T in v e s t i g ate s t h e coordin a tion of transactions, which can be defined as the transfer of property rights of a resource between two contracting parties [33 and 34  The specificity and uncertainty connected to this transaction determines the transaction costs for different types of coordination possibilities. These possibilities range from in-house production \(make over long-term contracts \(hybrid\o spontaneous market acquisitions \(buy T C T claim s t h e h i gh er  the specificity and uncertainty of the transaction are the more efficient a sustainable solution becomes, in form of long-term contracts and eventually in-house coordination because of transaction costs. Sustainable management of the resource strengthens the ties between the contracting parties beyond the economical level within the sourcing process, hence, intensifying and securing their long-term relationships. Especially for resource transactions with high specificity and uncertainty, this would lead to lower transaction costs in comparison to other coordination mechanisms. That is the reason why some companies with employees as core resources usually offer additional social incentives to intensify and secure this relationship PT deals with the efficient input-output relations Nowadays many resources, especially those with high ecological and social impact, are connected with economic incentives imposed by stakeholders. These incentives might, for instance, derive from government regulations towards more efficient technologies for lower energy consumption green investments, or they could also be immaterial, for example as an award for sustainable behavior acknowledged to the company. It is obvious that these ecological and social incentives need to be recognized to determinate an optimal input-output relationship for IS product and service production. Schaltegger and Synnestvedt point out that a limited amount of ecological and social activities 4 lead to an increase of economic success until a point where after the costs of these activities exceed the benefits leading to decreasing economic success The managerial challenge as Schaltegger and Synnestvedt [36 state is to choose th e opti m al le v e l o f  ecological and social activities to achieve the highest economic success and to obtain this level at the lowest possible costs Stakeholder theory is a normative theory of corporate social responsibility. It states that the manager s duty is to balance the shareholders  financial interests against the interests of other stakeholders such as employees, customers or local community, even if it reduces the shareholder returns The managers objective within the stakeholder theory is to balance profit maximization with the long-term ability to do business. Stakeholders are voluntarily or involuntarily connected to the companies resources making them potential risk bearers for the companies  fortun pos sible cl as s i f i catio n dis t i n g u i sh es between five typical groups of stakeholders: investors and risk assessors, rulemakers and watchdogs, idea generators and opinion leaders, business partners and competitors, consumers and community The sustainable management of resources, within the economical, ecological and social dimensions seems to provide orientation on how to balance profit maximization and stakeholders interests. An increasing extend of sustainability activities leads to higher costs but also to lower calculated expenditures due to declining stakeholder risks \(Figure 2   4 Note: Schaltegger and Synnestvedt use the term Environmental activities In this paper we see Environmental activities as a generic term for ecological and social activities Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


    Extend of sustainability activities Resource related Expenditures   Total expenditures Calculated expenditures due to stakeholder risks Expenditures of resource sustainability measures Management towards balanced optimum Resource  Figure 2 The connection between sustainability and stakeholder risks The objective for sustainable management is therefore to identify and obtain a balanced optimum by keeping the resource related expenditures at a minimum. Notable is the fact that over time the calculated expenditures due to stakeholder risks, e.g new regulations or customer expectations, might shift hence creating a demand for active management   4. Implementing sustainability in IS a procedural model  In Section 2 and Section 3 we have shown the relevance of sustainable IS management from a theoretical perspective. This creates the need for a model or framework that supports a practical implementation and leads us back to the initial question: How could sustainability be efficiently implemented in IS management In this section we propose a procedural model for the implementation of sustainable IS management that gets applied over the entire value-chain of IS \(Figure 3 Starting point are the resources of IS. They get evaluated concerning their impact on the economic success, the ecology and the social relevance Thereafter, the measures need to be prioritized before they finally get implemented. Continuous controlling will ensure to balance the sustainability objectives  4.1. Resource identification  There is a vast variety of approaches to identify IS resources: McKeen/Smith i ded IS res o u r ces i n  technology, people and processes, which are needed to meet the challenges of the firm. Bharadwaj suggested six dimensions: IT/business partnerships external IT linkages, business IT strategic thinking, IT business process integration, IT management, and IT infrastructure. Wade and Hulland 5 analyzed a broad variety of IS studies dealing with the resource based view and extracted eight key IS resources external relationship management, market responsiveness, IS business partnerships, IS planning and change management, IS infrastructure, IS technical skills, IS development and cost effective operations   Figure 3 Procedural model for sustainable information systems management   Practitioners from the Office of Government Commerce \(OGC ting u ish bet w ee n capabilities such as management, organization   5 Note: For a more comprehensive overview see   Resource Identification Assessment Prioritization Implementation Monitor Evaluate Sustainable IS management Identification of measures Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


  processes, knowledge and assets such as information applications, infrastructure, financial capital, which are combined to create goods or services of value. In general, it can be said that resources of IS infrastructure include tangibles, such as buildings machinery, IS hardware, electrical equipment and any kind of office installations, as well as intangibles that enable their usage, such as electricity, water, paper or location. Knowledge resources can be seen as capabilities which include the insights, understandings and practical know-how of employees T h is  knowledge can be classified into tacit and explicit knowledge T a cit k n o w l ed g e is conn ected to people and is deeply rooted in action, commitment, and involvement in a specific context, which makes it hard to externalize \(e.g. skills, talents, way of thinking attitude, manners, cultural competence\xplicit refers to knowledge that is transmittable in formal, systematic language and was generated by combination or externalization \(e.g. applications, manuals, reference models o v e rn a n ce is def i n e d b y W eill a n d  Ross [43 a s  specifying the decision rights and accountability framework to encourage desirable behavior in the use of IT  Resource of  IS governance therefore subsume capabilities dealing with management, organization or processes It has to be noted, as Ha t ates the  interconnectedness between certain resources. Meaning the accumulation, generation, deployment and securing of certain resources might depend upon having already developed other resources before  4.2. Assessment of IS resources  The first step of the assessment is the characterization of each IS resource as core, threshold or unnecessary \(see Section 2.3\ore resources have to be preserved in order to remain competitive in the present and future. Threshold resources might not lead to a competitive advantage, but there might be no possibility to get rid of them either \(e.g. electricity local authorities\nnecessary resources are not inevitably useless to IS, they might even generate a certain amount of benefits, but they are not essential for survival and might get sold, outsourced, or just neglected in the future. Helpful questions to determine the type of each resource provide Weill and Ross [43  What is the unique and valuable position targeted by the firm and What core processes embody the organization s unique market position  In the next step the ecological and social impact that determine the amount of externalities have to be evaluated. A high amount of externalities by a resource increases the potential risk from stakeholders, offers ways to differentiate from competitors and makes external incentives more likely. A low amount of externalities makes sustainable management less advisable. Generally, portfolio planning models represents a two-dimensional, matrix-based framework that can be used to evaluate business unit performance to formulate business unit strategies, and to set performance targets  The significance of the IS resource and its externalities can be positioned in a portfolio to generate strategic orientation to which degree sustainable measures should be taken or not \(Figure 4  Externalities by the resource Meaning of the resource for the unique position of the firm   Keep it running Invest  in sustai n abilit y Selective strategies low middle high unnecessary threshold core   Keep it running Invest  in sustai n abilit y Selective strategies   Keep it running Invest  in sustai n abilit y Selective strategies Keep it running Invest  in sustai n abilit y Selective strategies low middle high unnecessary threshold core  Figure 4 Assessment of resources  As shown in the portfolio, three strategic directions can be derived keep it running  selective strategies and invest in sustainability While keep it running matches a lower importance of the resource with a low externality, the strategy invest in sustainability represents a major impact on the performance by the resource and high externalities as well. Resources categorized in this quadrant can be defined as core resources that need to be managed sustainably  4.3. Identification of measures  The next step is to identify measures that support the ecological and social dimensions of a resource to control or minimize its externalities. Applying the concept of sustainability into the filed of IS management requires an integrated view on the entire value chain of IS organizations. For each of the phases of IS organizations providing hardware, software or services we open up an initially continuum of appropriate measures. Table 1 gives an exploratory overview, and depicts some already existing concepts Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  that are currently under discussion Grid computing  for instance, is a concept for the collaboration of computers to perform very large computing tasks together. Its objective is to provide the maximum of service output with a minimum of computing power input, which leads to lower energy consumption in total. Therefore we positioned grid computing in the make phase of IS services. In the deliver phase standardized reporting is recommended. An example for this is the EU Code of Conduct for Data Centers  to which the organization could refer, to underline its commitment towards stakeholders  4.4. Prioritization and implementation  In the next step the selected measures assigned have to be prioritized with respect to feasibility importance and cost-effectiveness. The decision for pursuing specific measures within certain resources can be based on costs, values and risks resulting from those measures. Many techniques are already present for prioritizing projects that can be also used in this case: Some well-known methods are the cost-benefit or value benefit analysis, the portfolio analysis, the analytic hierarchy process or the prioritization via specific criteria in a checklist. Regardless of the method of choice it is essential to take a top-down approach. The prioritization process should be aligned to the actual business strategy \(e.g. revenue increase expense reduction, efficiency gains etc.\ addition the strategic position of the firm affects the decision: A first mover or an innovator for instance will have other preferences than a fast follower. Furthermore, the dependencies between several resources should be considered, so that the sustainable measures for one resource can have a positive or negative impact on others. One way to come to a solution is to use the value benefit analysis which is similar to the analytic hierarchy process th is cas e, certai n criteria  have to be identified and selected. Such criteria can be minimization of risk or economic impact of the resource. Hereupon, the decision makers have to assess each chosen criteria for its contribution to the firm s performance and strategic direction. This is a critical step because improper selection of weights can influence the decision The next step is to score each resource across all defined parameters in order to determine the overall resource score. The resources should be scored by executives for their degree of agreement on a specific scale. As those priorities change because of the altered strategic relevance of IS to an organization, the weights can be adjusted correspondingly, so that the score for each resource is always in line with the business strategy. When all selected resources are scored they can be ranked to determine those that have the highest score. Finally, the number of resources that will be selected can be based on total investments available or other constraints the firm is operating under. Once the measures are prioritized, they can be implemented  Table 1 Objectives and exemplary ICT sustainability measures  Types of ICT products Reuse of infrastructure Use of lost heat Use customer input Reuse of modules Reuse of knowledge Validate knowledge Use customer input Recycling of components Use customer input Safe disposal of waste Reuse all possible resources Secure and manage remaining resources Evaluate and improve Return Environmental marketing Comply to transparency guidelines \(e.g. EU Code of Conduct for Data Centers Customer relationship management \(e.g. ITIL Documentation Comply to transparency guidelines Training Customer relationship management Environmental marketing Comply to transparency guidelines \(e.g. GRI Customer relationship management Comply to stakeholder standards \(e.g. Greenpeace Underline commitment Use standardized reporting Cooperate with stakeholder groups Deliver Virtualization Grid computing Cloud computing Green IT hardware Thin clients Cooling and auxiliary Knowledge management Knowledge management tools Efficient coding Use of lasting standards Development of environmental software Reduce emission and waste Efficient production technologies Minimizing hazardous substances \(e.g. RoHS, WEEE Minimize input Maximize output Control risks Comply to standards Make Check for eco-labels \(e.g Energy Star Negotiate lasting service level agreements \(SLAs Check for certified suppliers e.g. ITIL Recruiting Comply with social standards Check for fair labor conditions Secure natural resources Check for ISO 9001, 14001 Demand transparency Demand compliance to standards Create lasting incentive systems Source Services Software Hardware General objectives Value chain   Types of ICT products Reuse of infrastructure Use of lost heat Use customer input Reuse of modules Reuse of knowledge Validate knowledge Use customer input Recycling of components Use customer input Safe disposal of waste Reuse all possible resources Secure and manage remaining resources Evaluate and improve Return Environmental marketing Comply to transparency guidelines \(e.g. EU Code of Conduct for Data Centers Customer relationship management \(e.g. ITIL Documentation Comply to transparency guidelines Training Customer relationship management Environmental marketing Comply to transparency guidelines \(e.g. GRI Customer relationship management Comply to stakeholder standards \(e.g. Greenpeace Underline commitment Use standardized reporting Cooperate with stakeholder groups Deliver Virtualization Grid computing Cloud computing Green IT hardware Thin clients Cooling and auxiliary Knowledge management Knowledge management tools Efficient coding Use of lasting standards Development of environmental software Reduce emission and waste Efficient production technologies Minimizing hazardous substances \(e.g. RoHS, WEEE Minimize input Maximize output Control risks Comply to standards Make Check for eco-labels \(e.g Energy Star Negotiate lasting service level agreements \(SLAs Check for certified suppliers e.g. ITIL Recruiting Comply with social standards Check for fair labor conditions Secure natural resources Check for ISO 9001, 14001 Demand transparency Demand compliance to standards Create lasting incentive systems Source Services Software Hardware General objectives Value chain  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


  4.5. Monitor and evaluate  In this step, the applied sustainability actions have to be measured and evaluated with appropriate indicators. This approach can help business managers to continuously monitor the efforts towards sustainable IS management. Indeed, the reporting is an essential part within the concept of corporate sustainability. Whilst it highlights inefficiencies in operations to managers, it can be also used for showcasing the sustainability efforts that have been undertaken by the company to reduce risks and seize opportunities for improving competitive advantage This increase of transparency can improve the attractiveness of the company to investors and customers The reporting guidelines published by the Global Reporting Initiative \(GRI\s the most widely used sustainability reporting framework and provides principles and indicators that can be used by organizations to measure and report their economic environmental, and social performan T h es e standardized guidelines make it possible to benchmark organizational performance with respect to regulators such as lawmakers or industry oversight committees. Moreover, it forms the basis to communicate organizational commitment to sustainable development and to satisfy the information needs of internal and external stakeholders In order to define appropriate metrics, the sustainability measures identified in Table 1 have to be translated into measurable goals h e g o als  have to be in accord with the corporate strategy as well as with the basic conditions within each value chain phase \(e.g. sourcing strategy\An example for such metrics within the source process could be the number of ISO 14001 certified suppliers or the percentage of suppliers with green or eco-labelled products such as the TCO label for IT equipment or the energy star label that defines certain energy efficiency criteria for each produ  For translating sustainability strategy into specific performance indicators, existent management systems such as the Balanced Scorecard by Kaplan and Norton can be widened with a sustainability perspectiv  Another possibility for reporting the effectiveness towards sustainable IS management is to create a sustainability maturity model. Based on the capability maturity model \(CMM\hat has been designed by the Software Engineering Institute of the Carnegie Mellon University as a process improvement approach, a sustainability maturity model can be defined to set a guidance towards sustainable IS management via specific goals and management ratios. The allocation of the organization into certain maturity levels will show opportunities to improve its performance in order to get into the next higher level In addition, the maturity level of the IS organization can be used as performance indicator to customers and other stakeholders  4.6. Case of an IS service provider  To illustrate the procedural model of sustainable IS management, we apply it to an IS service provider ISP\. The ISP is mainly working for the airline and aviation industry. It has more than 3,000 employees in offices in 16 countries. Its consulting portfolio addresses all airline business processes. As a system integrator it is also running a sophisticated data center and covers the entire spectrum of IS services including consulting, application development and implementation, and reliable 24-hour operation Following the procedural model \(Figure 3\he first step would be to identify all resources capabilities and assets, of the ISP and grouping them within the categories of core, threshold and unnecessary. Besides others, the data center would be considered as a core resource. The next step would be an assessment of the data center along the IS value chain, to evaluate its externalities \(see Table 1 column Services the source process it needs the constant availability of electricity and data lines from external suppliers. The make process consumes high amounts of electricity to create the services. In the deliver process the data center might provide services that are vital to other organizations. This leads to strong amount of externalities. From the portfolio analysis derives the recommendation of an investment in sustainable measures. These measures need to be identified. Concerning the energy consumption, concepts such as server virtualization or efficient cooling equipment might provide ways towards energy reduction. Limitations of any kind e.g. financially, demand a prioritization of available measures that would lead to potential projects and an implementation. After the implementation the economical, ecological, and social effectiveness have to be monitored and evaluated before the process of sustainable IS management restarts Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  5. Conclusion and future research  In this paper we have shown the relevance of sustainability within IS management. While the concept of sustainability has been successfully adopted in several sectors, the ICT industry is challenged to develop an own view on the topic of sustainability. We provided theoretical foundation to the topic and suggested a procedural model for implementing sustainability in IS management using the resource based view. This approach can be adopted by IS managers and CIOs for applying the concept into their daily business To refine the suggested model our future research will follow these next steps 1  Further rounds of case studies and expert interviews using the Delphi method 2  Integrated implementation of a sustainability strategy by adding sustainability into approved management systems such as ITBalanced Scorecard 3  Development of a sustainability maturity model \(Section 4.5\ith certain management ratios to monitor and evaluate the progress of IS organizations towards sustainable IS management 4  Exemplary benchmarking of IS organizations on the basis of the maturity model IS organizations have to be aware that sustainable measures are necessary in order to remain competitive in the future. In addition to the enhanced efficiency through operations via product or service innovations, sustainability in IS management can improve the corporate reputation, the competitive advantage, and the attractiveness to investors and customers. Given the rising prices for energy and other resources the relevance of sustainability is destined to gain even more importance in the future Hence, the concept of sustainability has an increased relevance for policy makers, practitioners, and researchers. As a result, we reason that sustainability is applicable in IS business and can have a positive impact on the IS business performance    6. References  1 B. C. McNu rli n an d R. H Sp rag u e Jr., In f o rm atio n  Systems Management in Practice, seventh edition, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, USA, 2006 2 M. J  E p s t e i n, Ma k i ng S u s t a i na bil ity  W o rk Be s t  Practices in Managing and Measuring Corporate Social Environmental and Economic Impacts, Berret-Koehler Publishers, January, 2008 3 J. Elk ing t on Ca nni ba ls w ith f o rk s T h e triple Bottom  Line of 21st century business, Captone, Oxford 1997 4 W I T S A W orld Inf o rm a tion T e c hnolog y a nd Se rv ic e Alliance Digital Planet 2008 Executive Summary  http://www.witsa.org/kl08/Di gitalPlanet2008ExecSummary _cover.pdf, May 2008, \(accessed May 18, 2008 5 Bu si n e ssW e e k  The World's 50 Most Innovative Companies  http://bwnt.businessweek.com/interactive_reports/most_inn ovative/index.asp?chan=innovation_special+report+-+2007+most+innovative+companies_2007+most+innovati ve+companies, May 2007 accessed May 16, 2008 6 G a rtner, In c  Gartner Estimates ICT Industry Accounts for 2 Percent of Global CO2 Emissions  http://www.gartner.com/it/page.jsp?id=503867, \(accessed March 31, 2008 7 J  G  K oom ey Es ti m a ting tota l pow e r c ons um ption by  servers in the U.S. and the world, Final report, Stanford University, February 15, USA, 2007 8 T  Ch ou Se v e n - S o f t w a r e Bus i ne s s Mo de ls A c tiv e Book Press, USA, 2008 9 U N E P U ni te d N a tions E n v i ronm e n t P r og ram m e    Global Environment Outlook GEO 4  http://www.unep.org/geo/geo4/report/GEO4_Report_Full_en.pdf, 2007, \(accessed May 17, 2008 10 IDC The Diverse and Exploding Digital Universe  IDC White Paper sponsored by EMC http://www.emc.com/collateral/analyst-reports/diverseexploding-digital-universe.pdf, March 2008 \(accessed March 17, 2008 11 M  E Po rter an d F. L  Rein h a rd t Grist: A Strategic Approach to Climate Harvard Business Review, USA Oct 2007, pp. 1-5 12 S u p p ly Cha in Co unc il  Sup p ly Cha in Ope r a tio ns Reference-model \(SCOR\, Overview Version 8.0., SupplyChain Council Inc., \(Pittsburgh\ Washington DC, 2006 13 R. Za r n e k ow W  Br e nne r, a nd U   P i lg ra m  Inte g r a t e d  Information Management: Applying successful industrial concepts in IT, Springer, Berlin, 2006 14 A  H o c h s t e i n, W  Bre n n e r, a nd F. U e be r n ic k e l Operations Management and IS: Using the SCOR-Model to Source, Make, and Deliver IS Services Proceedings of the Twelfth Americas Conference on Information Systems Acapulco, MÈxico, August 04 th 06 th 2006 15  S Sc ha lte g g e r a nd M W a g n e r Eds  Ma na g i ng the  Business Case for Sustainability, Greenleaf Publishing 2006 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  16 D C. Es ty a nd A  S. W i ns ton G r e e n to G o ld: How  smart companies use environmental strategy to innovate create value, and build competitive advantage, Yale University Press; New Haven and London, 2006 17 M. E   P o r t e r a n d C  v a n de r L i nde  Green and Competitive: Ending the stalement Journal of Business Administration, 1999, p. 215 18 D. Sm ith Strategic management and the business environment: what lies beyond the rhetoric of greening  Business Strategy and the Environment, Vol. 1, part 1 Spring 1992 19  M. H  ls m a nn a nd J   G r a pp Recursivity and Dilemmas of a Sustainable Strategic Management New Visions for a Corporate Balancing Efficiency and Sustainability by Autnomous Co-operation in Decision Making Processes in Foresight Management in Corporations and Public Organisations New Visions for Sustainability web-publication, 16 pages, Helsinki Finland, 2005 20 W C ED  W or ld C o m m iss i on o n Env i r o nm e n t a nd Development\ur Common Future, Oxford University Press, UK and New York, 1987 21 T  D y llic k  a nd K  H o c k e r ts  Beyond the business case for corporate sustainability Business Strategy and the Environment, Vol. 11, 2002, pp. 130-141 2 A  A  M a rcu s   Research in strategic environmental management in: S. Sharma, J. A. AragÛn-Correa \(Eds Corporate Environmental Strategy and Competitive Advantage, Edward Elgar Publishing, Northampton, MA USA, 2005, pp. 27-48 23 J Barn ey 1 9 9 1   Firm Resources and Sustained Competitive Advantage Journal of Management 1991 Vol. 17, No. 1, 99-120 2 R M  G r an t   The Resource-Based Theory of Competitive Advantage: Implications for Strategy Formulation California Management Review \(33:1 1991, pp. 114-135 25  S. L  Hart A natural resource based view of the firm Academy of Management Review, 20 \(4\, 986-1014 1995 26 G  J o hns on a n d K   Sc ho le s  Ex plori n g c o r pora t e  strategy: Text and Cases, Prentice Hall, London, 1999 27 E  K. Clem ons and M C. Ro w   Sustaining IT Advantage: The Role of Structural Differences MIS Quarterly, September, 1991, pp. 275-292 28 R Am it a nd P  J. H  Sc h o e m a ke r Strategic Assets and Organizational Rent Strategic Management Journal 14\, 1993, pp. 33-46 29  M. W a de a nd J  H u lla n d  J  The Resource-Based View and Informations Systems Research: Review Extension, and Suggestions for Future Research MIS Quarterly, Vol. 28 No.1, March 2004, pp. 107-142 30 R  Sa nc he z  A  H e e n e  a nd H  T hom a s Introd uc tio n  Towards the Theory and Practice of Competence-Based Competition, Pergamon Press, Oxford, 1996 31 R. K  Sriv a s ta v a T   A   She r v a ni, a nd L  Fa he y   Market-Based Assets and Shareholder Value: A Framework for Analysis Journal of Marketing \(62 January 1998, pp. 2-18 32 H. I t a m i a nd T  Roe hl, M obiliz i n g Inv isible A sse ts Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA, 1987 33 O  E. W illia m s on, T h e Ec onom ic Ins titu tio ns of  Capitalism. Firms, Markets, Relational Contracting, 11 th  Edition, The Free Press, New York, 1985 34 R  H  C o a s e  T h e N a ture of the Firm  1937 in  Economia, Nr. 4, pp. 386-405 35 A  P i c o t, R  R e ic hw a l d a nd R  T  W i ga nd, D i e  grenzenlose Unternehmung, second edition, 1996 36 S. Sc ha lte g g e r a nd T  S y nne s t v e dt The link between green and economic success: environmental management as the crucial trigger between environmental and economic performance Journal of Environmental Management, Vol 65, 2002, pp. 341-342 37 H  J  S m i t h   The Shareholders vs. Stakeholders Debate MIT Sloan Management Review, Summer 2003 pp. 85-90 3 J D M c Keen an d H A  S m i t h   Making IT happen  Wiley & Sons Ltd., England, 2006 39 A  S  B h a r a d w a j V Sa m b am urth y  a nd R  W  Zm ud  IT Capabilities: Theoretical Perspectives and Empirical Operationalization Proceedings of the 19 th International Conference on Information Systems, in R. Hirschheim, M Newman, and J. I. De Gross \(Eds\elsinki, Finland, 1998 pp. 378-385 40 OG C \(O ff ice o f  G o v e rn men t Co mmerce T I L  Service Design, Crown, UK, 2007 41 R. D. G a llie rs a nd D. E L e idne r, Stra te g i c Inf or m a tion Management, third edition, 2004 4 I  Non a ka  A Dynamic Theory of Organizational Knowledge Creation Organization Science, Vol. 5, No. 1 February 1994, pp. 14-37 43  P. W e ill a n d J. W  Ro ss IT  G o v e rna nc e  Ha rv a r d  Business School Press, Boston, Massachusetts, 2004 44 R obe rt M G r a n t, Co nte m pora r y Stra te gy  A n a l y s is   Blackwell Publishing, fifth edition, UK, 2005 4 J J Ji an an d G  Kl ei n   Project selection criteria by strategic orientation Informations & Management, Vol 36, Jan 1999, pp. 63-75 46 G R I \(G loba l Re porti n g Intia tiv e  S u sta i nb ility  Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.0, Amsterdam, 2006 47 M. J. Epste i n a nd M.-J. Roy  Sustainbility in Action Identifying and measuring the key performance drivers  Long Range Planning Journal, Vol. 34, 2001, pp. 585-604 48 M  P r o t o O   Ma la ndri n o  a nd S Su pin o   Eco-labels A Sustainability Performance in Benchmarking  Management of Environemental Quality: An International Journal, Vol. 18, No. 6, 2007, pp. 669-683 4 F F i gge T Hah n  S   S c hal t e gg er  an d M  Wagn e r   The Sustainbility Balanced Scorecard: Theory and Application of a Tool for Value-based Sustainbility Management Greening of Industry Network Conference Gothenburg, 2002 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


data and process standards positively affects process costs, has been corroborated. The path coefficient for this relationship is highly significant \(p &lt;= 0.001  H3: The forecasted positive impact of a combined standard force on the quality determinant of the recruiting process has been corroborated for this sample with p &lt;= 0.001  5.1 Implications for theory  In this paper we developed a theoretical research model around the combined effect of process and data standards on business process performance in staff recruitment. Such a model has not yet been offered in human resources information systems \(HRIS research In addition, this paper provides empirical substantiation and validation of the developed hypothesis using data from a survey sent to Fortune-1,000 companies in Germany. The results show that a sensible combination of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive impact on the outcomes of the entire recruiting process. These outcomes are measured as time-to-hire costs-per-hire as well as the process quality for applicants \(customer satisfaction quality of hired candidates With these two main contributions, the paper fills a gap in existing literature and can serve as starting point for promising future research Our results were not fully able to answer how exactly both standard types should be combined to provide the positive impact. As indicated in section 2.3 we assume that neither process nor data standards are an end in themselves. Quite a high number of cases show that the introduction of process standards is more successful if accompanied by a simultaneous introduction of data standards. Some cases show that data standards tend to fail if not embedded in a process standardization context. We leave a further discussion of the operative interplay of process and data standards for further research \(compare section 5.4 In their case study research about the use of process standards in staff recruitment, von Stetten et al. [31 showed that the observed company implemented a uniform data standard and then process standards on how to recruit an employee. In this case the company was able to cut their costs by a third and reduced their timeto-hire by around 20 days from 90 to 70  5.2 Managerial implications  The most important finding of this research is that the combined implementation of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive and direct impact on the overall performance of the recruiting process \(measured in time-to-hire, costs-per-hire and the process quality for applicant and company These empirical findings confirm the results of case study research by von Stetten et al. [31] who examined the positive influence of standardization in staff recruitment. Managers in HR and IT could benefit from this approach and enhance their efforts to standardize the corporate recruitment process. An important precondition seems to be a prior implementation of a uniform data standard before starting to standardize the process von Stetten et al. [31]. Examples of process standards could be related to the specific recruiter tasks, the channels they use to find and attract a specific applicant as well as the ways they communicate with their candidates. Several companies use standard chanProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 nels to attract candidates, such as their corporate website or an Internet job portal such as Monster.com [18 How candidates apply and companies communicate with their candidates is also becoming increasingly standardized in current staff recruitment as the candidates frequently use standardized web forms to apply and the companies use email for communication [19 Finally a rising degree of standardization in staff recruitment will lead to a new definition of recruiters tasks as one recruiter will not be responsible for performing the entire process from candidate attraction to final selection  Table 7: Overview of managerial implications Implications Combined implementation of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive and direct impact on the overall performance of the recruiting process Authors,[31 A uniform data standard \(for applicant relevant information standardization \([31 Standardized channels to first attract applicants and then communicate with them ? as a means of process standardization ? increase the overall performance of the recruiting process \(Authors,[18],[19 Increasing specialization and modularization of a single recruiter's activities ? as a means of process standardization ? increase the overall performance of the recruiting process \(Authors  5.3 Limitations  As with any work in a new field of research, relevant literature to build on is almost nonexistent. Following Wuellenweber et al. [37] "in standardization research determining the value of a standard has remained an open issue for decades. Looking at process standards, things seem to be even worse." Unfortunately the operationalization of "process standard" used in this paper could thus not build too much on earlier work in standardization research. As a result we focused the operationalization of prior findings of HR research As with any empirical research paper, this work has some associated limitations. We have only discussed one process to examine the combined impact of process and data standards, so the significant results might show a single example for the recruitment process. We assume there might be differences for different processes. Future research should discuss this aspect in more detail Furthermore, our survey was limited to major enterprises in Germany. Therefore our results may not be directly transferred to any other country or region In addition, our results could be affected by common method variance because we collected the data from participants at the same time using the same questionnaire [24  5.4 Further research  In this paper, we have shown that combined process and data standards have a positive impact on business process performance in terms of the individual measuring dimensions of business process time, cost and quality for our overall data sample of major German enterprises. We assume that interesting future results might be provided by looking at specific industry \(sub tors, branches or companies of different sizes \(e.g 


tors, branches or companies of different sizes \(e.g large-scale vs. SME Building on the proposal of the "business process standardization" construct by Muenstermann and Weitzel [22], future research should try to further improve the operationalization of "process standards In this paper we measured business process performance using the three business process measurement dimensions of business process time, cost and quality It might be interesting to complement these by adding softer" dimensions, such as business process flexibility, agility or robustness This paper offers an initial understanding of the interplay between process and data standards. Moreover in our further research, we will investigate the individual and separate influence of process and data standards on process performance. Is the influence of process standardization higher than that of data standardization? Do they conflict with each other In addition we will complete two more case studies and send out a new questionnaire to Germany?s Fortune 1,000 companies that will then allow us to analyze the influence of both process and data standardization on each of the business process performance measurement dimensions \(time, cost and quality In addition, we also aim to investigate whether most firms started their standardization effort \(process and data ture \(or even thereafter pendently of major IT changes Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 6. References  1] Bagozzi, R. P. and Yi, Y. \(1988 structural equation models. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 16\(1 2] Breaugh, J. A. and Starke, M. \(2000 ployee recruitment: So many studies, so many remaining questions. Journal of Management, 26\(3 3] Brislin, R. W. \(1970 research. Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, 1\(3 216 4] Chin, W. W. \(1998 structural equation modeling. In Marcoulides, G. A., editor Modern Methods for Business Research, pages 295?336 Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah, NJ, USA 5] Chin, W. W. \(2000 tial Least Squares &amp; PLS-Graph. Home Page. [On-line Available at: http://disc-nt.cba.uh.edu/chin/plsfaq.htm 6] Chin, W. W. and Todd, P. A. \(1995 ness, and ease of use of structural equation modeling in MIS research: a note of caution. MIS Quarterly, 19\(2 7] Davenport, T. H. and Short, J. E. \(1990 trial engineering: information technology and business process redesign. Sloan Management Review, 31\(4 8] de Vries, H. \(2006 zation. International Journal of IT Standards and Standardization Research, 4\(1 9] Eckhardt, A., Laumer, S., Koenig, W., and Weitzel, T 2008 tration, esp. Information Management, University of Frankfurt 10] Faerber, F., Keim, T., and Weitzel, T. \(2003 mated recommendation approach to personnel selection. In Proceedings of the 2003 Americas Conference on Information Systems, Tampa 11] Ferstl, O. K. and Sinz, E. J. \(1997 ness systems using the semantic object model \(SOM thodological framework, chapter Handbook on architectures of information systems. International handbook on information systems. Springer 


tion systems. Springer 12] Fomin, V. and Lyytinen, K. \(2000 cake before cutting it into pieces: Alice in Wonderland or radio engineers' gang in the Nordic countries? IGI Publishing, Hershey, PA, USA 13] Fornell, C. and Larcker, D. F. \(1981 tural equation models with unobservable variables and measurement errors. Journal of Marketing Research, 18\(1 50 14] Frank, F. D., Finnegan, R. P., and Taylor, C. R. \(2004 The race for talent: retaining and engaging workers in the 21st century. Human Resource Planning, 27\(3 15] Gefen, D., Straub, D. W., and Boudreau, M.-C. \(2000 Structural equation modeling and regression: Guidelines for research practice. Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 4\(7 16] Herwig, V. \(2006 an service-oriented architecture. In Proc. IEEE Services Computing Workshops SCW '06, pages 156?164 17] ISO, T. \(1996 related activities ? General vocabulary". International Organisation for Standardization / International Electrotechnical Commission, Geneva, 7th edition 18] Keim, T. and Weitzel, T. \(2006 professionals: An empirical analysis of employer and job seeker behavior on the IT labor market. Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 19] Laumer, S., Eckhardt, A., and Trunk, N. \(2008 your parents say? ? analyzing it adoption influencing factors for full and under age applicants. forthcoming in Information Systems Frontiers 20] Luftman, J., Kempaiah, R., and Nash, E. \(2006 issues for it executives 2005. MIS Quarterly Executive 5\(2 21] Mooney, J. G., Gurbaxani, V., and Kraemer, K. L 1996 ness value of information technology. SIGMIS Database 27\(2 22] Muenstermann, B. and Weitzel, T. \(2008 process standards? Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Information Resources Management \(ConfIRM 2008 23] National Institute of Standards and Technology \(1996 Electronic data interchange \(EDI Information Processing Standards Publications 24] Podsakoff, P. M., MacKenzie, S. B., Lee, J. Y., and Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003 research: A critical review of the literature and recommended remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, 88:879?903 25] Porter, M. E. \(1985 niques for analyzing industries and competitors. Free Press New York 26] Ramakumar, A. and Cooper, B. \(2004 dization proves profitable. Quality, 43\(2 27] Riemenschneider, C. K., Moore, J. E., and Armstrong D. \(2008 Renewed Demand for IT Workers, European Journal of Information Systems \(EJIS 28] Ross, J. W. \(2003 competency: learning in stages. MIS Quarterly Executive 2\(1 29] Rossi, B., Russo, B., and Succi, G. \(2008 about the diffusion of data standards inside European public organizations. 3rd International Conference on Information Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 and Communication Technologies: From Theory to Applications, 2008. ICTTA 2008, 1?6 30] S  nchez-Rodr  guez, C., Hemsworth, D., Mart  nezLorente, n. R., and Clavel, J. G. \(2006 on the impact of standardization of materials and purchasing procedures on purchasing and business performance. Supply 


procedures on purchasing and business performance. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 11\(1 31] Stetten, A. v., Muenstermann, B., Eckhardt, A., and Laumer, S. \(2008 value of business process standardization - a case study approach. Proceedings of the 14th Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2008 32] Straub, D., Gefen, D., and Boudreau, M.-C. \(2004 ISWorld quantitative, positivist research methods website On-line]. Available at: http://dstraub.cis.gsu.edu:88/quant 33] Ungan, M. C. \(2006 documentation. Business Process Management Journal 12\(2 34] Venkatesh, V. \(2006 on future directions for research on individual-level technology adoption with a focus on decision making. Decision Sciences, 37\(22 35] Vinzi, V. E., Lauro, C., and Tenenhaus, M. \(2003 Path Modelling. DMS 36] Wigand, R. T., Steinfield, C. W., and Markus, M. L 2005 try structure outcomes: The case of the U.S. home mortgage industry. Journal of Management Information Systems 22\(2 37] Wuellenweber, K., Beimborn, D., Weitzel, T., and Koenig, W. \(2008 business process outsourcing success. Information Systems Frontiers, 10\(2  7. Appendix  Table 8: Cross loadings Proc. Cost Data Stand Proc Stand Proc Qual Stand Inter Proc Time Process Standards \(1 Process Standards \(2 Process Standards \(3 Process Standards \(4 Process Standards \(5 Process Standards \(6 Data Standards \(1 Data Standards \(2 Data Standards \(3 Data Standards \(4 Data Standards \(5 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(1 Combined P&amp;D 0.4504 0.9762 0.6555 0.4436 0.8575 0.5252 Standards \(2 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(3 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(4 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(5 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(6 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(7 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(8 Combined P&amp;D 


Standards \(9 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(10 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(11 Business Process Time \(1 Business Process Time \(2 Business Process Time \(3 Business Process Cost 1 Business Process Cost 2 Business Process Cost 3 Business Process Cost 4 Business Process Quality \(1 Business Process Quality \(2 Business Process Quality \(3  Table 9: Indicators Indicator Description Process-Time-1 We have reduced the time between the identification of a vacancy and the posting of the job ad Process-Time-2 We have reduced the time between the incoming applications and the transmitted notice of arrival for the respective applicant Process-Time-3 We have reduced the time between the identification of a vacancy and its fill Process-Cost-1 We were able to reduce the costs for candidate attraction Process-Cost-2 We were able to reduce the costs for the response management with the recruiting process Process-Cost-3 We were able to reduce the costs for the internal applicant tracking Process-Cost-4 We were able to reduce the costs per tracked application Process-Quality-1 We were able to enhance the overall applicant quality Process-Quality-2 We were able to enhance the quality of applicants' data Process-Quality-3 We were able to enhance the proportion of top candidates Process-Quality-4 Our applicants are very satisfied with our offer of information Process-Stand.-1 We have a well-regulated process cycle for applicant tracking in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-2 We have established an efficient organized process in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-3 We have established highly standardized procedures in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-4 We have documented our actions to a great extent Process-Stand.-5 We have established a fixed procedure for the collaboration between HR and the operating departments Process-Stand.-5 We already work with process standards in our staff recruitment Data-Stand-1 We already use a data standard in our staff recruitment Data-Stand-2 I expect that we will use a data standard in staff recruitment in the future as well Data-Stand-3 We plan to use a data standard in staff recruitment in the future as well Data-Stand-4 A uniform data standard is more important in our company as process standards Data-Stand-5 We use the same data standard as our competitors  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


especially of computer networks, is often characterized by the multi-state performance degradations before reaching the complete failure. This multi-state nature of reliability has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and the most significant advances have been in the field of multistate reliability modeling \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003                                                 4. STRATEGIC MODELING AND DYNAMIC   Box 3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis  Dependence Mechanisms  Dependence is often the central focus of multivariate survival analysis, and together with censoring, they complicate survival analysis most significantly. Hougaard \(2000 three mechanisms of dependence: \(i ii iii Common events are equivalent to common mode failures in reliability analysis, for example, failure events due to accidents or natural disasters. The common risks mechanism describes the scenario that the individuals are dependent due to some common unobserved risks such as common genes in siblings or a bug in the operating system that may affect all software running on 


operating system that may affect all software running on it. The third mechanism, event-related mechanism refers to the phenomena that the actual event itself changes the risk, such as virus infection of a computer node Shared Frailty Modeling  Shared frailty theory occupies the central focus of multivariate survival analysis. The dominance is not accidental because frailty captures crucial but often directly unobservable \(latent random variables, which are attributable for dependence and variations. To some extent, dependence, variation randomness, and frailty all address some facets of multivariate failure events. The frailty theory provides a unique set of approaches to address the theoretical and practical issues related to those four concepts.  Similar to the fact that censoring is the trademark feature of survival analysis \(both univariate and multivariate frailty theory is the trademark of multivariate survival analysis. These two trademark properties, censoringhandling and frailty modeling, have made multivariate survival analysis a unique and indispensable mathematical tool for biomedical and public health research Multi-State Modeling  Multi-state has been developed concurrently in several fields in the last decade, including survival analysis \(Hougaard 2000 reliability \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003 Commenges 1999 Huzurbazar 2006 multi-state modeling has been adopted to solve the domain specific problems, and the flow graph modeling offers a flexible and powerful approach to analyze multi-state models in general. Multi-State model is often formulated as Markov Process models. The transition probabilities in multi-states modeling are well defined by survivor functions \(Hougaard 2000 multi-state model is to estimate the state transition probabilities from hazards functions. multivariate system. According to Lisnianski and Levitin's \(2003 any systems that can have a finite number of performance rates are multi-state systems. Furthermore a system may consists of components which themselves could be multi-state subsystems 10 4. STRATEGIC LEVEL MODELING AND DYNAMIC HYBRID FAULT MODELS  Hybrid fault models are derived from agreement algorithms Lynch 1997 redundancy management in fault tolerance.  Therefore, the choice of hybrid fault models directly affects reliability analysis and fault tolerance. Despite the close ties between reliability and fault tolerance fields, Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e Ma 2008a with regard to the quantitative relationship between reliability analysis and hybrid fault models. To address the unrealistic assumption, they proposed a new concept  dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF mathematical tools \(survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling we first briefly describe the issues involved and summarize some of their key findings in Box 4.1  Agreement algorithms started out with the introduction of the Byzantine general problem by Pease et al. \(1980 Lamport \(1982 system are abstracted as generals of an army.  Loyal generals \(non-faulty components algorithm e.g., to attack or retreat while traitors \(or bad components others by sending conflicting messages. Because the focus of agreement algorithms is to reach agreement in the presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the 


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


