Estimating Performance Indexes of a Baggage Handling System Using Metamodels  Abbas Khosravi, IEEE Member, Saeid Nahavandi, IEEE Senior Member, Doug Creighton Centre for Intelligent Systems Research, Deakin Uni versity, Vic, 3217, Australia akhos, nahavand, dougc}@deakin.edu.au   Abstract In this study we develop some deterministic metamodels to quickly and precisely predict the fut ure of a technically complex system. The underlying system i s essentially a stochastic discrete event simulation model of a big baggage handling system. The highly detailed simulation mode l of this is used for conducting some experiments and logging da ta which are then used for training artificial neural networ k metamodels Demonstrated results show that the developed metamo dels are well able to predict different performance measures  related to the travel time of bags within this system In cont rast to the simulation models which are computationally expensi ve and expertise extensive to be developed run and maint ained the artificial neural network metamodels could serve as  real time decision aiding tools which are considerably fast precise, simple to use, and reliable  I  I NTRODUCTION  Motivations for this research are the trends in bot h academia and industry in recent years towards analy sis of complex systems and more integration of simulation modeling techniques in system design and operation planning In massively complex systems with many inextricably intertwined constituent entities deci sion makers and managers do require insights into systems and t heir operation A reliable understanding of key design f actors their interactions and their impacts on the system  performance measures is essential to run the whole system more effectively and smoothly What we seek in this research is to adopt some powe rful modeling techniques for approximating relationships between important design factors or key system parameters  and performance measures which are matter of importance  for system decision makers and schedulers Such an abst ract model could be an invaluable decision aiding tool f or schedulers in complex systems such as big manufact uring enterprises, to quickly examine their tentative pla ns and avoid catastrophic consequences of their decisions As we  will explain and discuss in more details latter this co uld not be done through detailed simulation models as they are not only expert extensive and problematic to be developed b ut also computationally expensive to be run Observing incr easing interest in and promising results of Artificial Neu ral Network ANN metamodeling applications, an ANN will be ado pted to learn nonlinear relationships between selected i nputs and outputs. After being validated, this speedy model w ill provide the same information and results that one gets from  the detailed simulation model, with almost no cost Although some researchers have used metamodels in manufacturing and in particular semiconductor indus try to estimate throughput of the system or lead times  6   8   10   to the best of our knowledge no research in the av iation industry has been conducted to model and analyze th e type of systems which are focus of this study The paper is laid out as follows Section 2 gives a n overview of the problem we are aiming to solve des cribes our objectives and discusses techniques we are goi ng to adopt to achieve those objective In section 3 the  Baggage Handling System BHS and its components are briefl y introduced. Section 4 includes the results for expe riments and tests carried out for estimation of some performanc e measures while section 5 concludes the paper with a summary of the work and some guidelines for further  research II  O VERVIEW OF P ROBLEM AND P ROPOSED S OLUTIONS  Following the recovery from the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks, the number of passengers carried by airlines has shown a continued growth in recent years. And a s stated in  1   i t  i s  e x p e c t e d  t h a t  t h i s  g r o w t h  w i l l  r e m a i n  a l most stable in the upcoming years. Such a growth not only requi res huge investments in aviation infrastructures but also p uts increasing pressure on managers and decision-makers  to handle and run their systems more optimally Playin g a crucial role in the smooth operation of an airport BHS is one of the most complex man-made systems that includes many processes machines and operators Operation of BH S as a very huge enterprise directly affects overall level of service in airport complex and passengers satisfaction The p rimary source of opening breakdown in big airports such as  Hong Kong and Denver has been failure in BHS. Therefore system designers and planners continuously work on all iss ues related to this system to improve its performance Baggage travel time and time required for processing a spec ific percentile of bags are of the most important perfor mance measures used by experts for BHS operation assessme nt Predicting bags travel time or their time-in-syste m is not only a critical task for BHS itself but also to it s customers airlines and subsequently passengers Several man agerial goals like those ones explained in  2  f o r  m a n u f a c t u r i n g  enterprises\ may be achieved based on accurate pred iction of total baggage processing time for each flight But this 


  Fig 1, Stochastic discrete event simulation model of baggage handling system d eveloped and validated based on real data  approximation is not a straightforward task which c ould be done through summating a couple of a priori known processing times As a time-varying series travel time of bags in BHS nonlinearly depends on plenty of internal/external factors that are partially and ev en totally unknown for system designers and operational manage rs As there are many vexing constraints on the extent to which analyzers and system operation planners can p redict performance of a complex system such as manufacturi ng enterprises or BHS using pen and paper based approa ches e.g., analytical models\, simulation has become th e ultimate tool for analysis of systems with many interconnect ed components Almost from one decade ago simulation packages have been used for developing some virtual  environments that exactly resemble what happens in BHS in reality  3   4   T h e s e  s i m u l a t i o n  m o d e l s  t h e n  a r e  e x p l o i t e d  f o r  system analysis, operation optimization, reconfigur ation, and prediction They are the most accurate tools for an alyzing performance of a system and often serve as benchmar ks for evaluating the effectiveness of other approaches B ut this ability comes with the cost of spending too much computation resources. Requiring a large amount of data and being excessively time-consuming are of major short comings of this approach for travel time prediction or in general estimation of any performance measures of the under lying system  5   6   F u r t h e r m o r e   m a i n t a i n i n g  v a l i d i t y  o f  t h e s e  models is a big issue which requires a high level o f expertise for continuously applying updates Due to all these  drawbacks and vexing issues applications of detail ed simulation models for planning scheduling and opt imizing systems’ operation in real time have been hindered  Motivated by the massive costs of maintaining simul ation models as well as their considerable time and compu tation requirements this research will investigate the vi ability of developing some tools for rapid yet accurate perfo rmance prediction of complex systems such as BHS As there  are many stakeholders/parties involved in operation of BHS with diverse objectives an analysis will be conducted o ver the measurable variables/factors for identification of those informative ones that most possibly affect the perf ormance indexes of the underlying system e.g throughput  travel time A metamodel then will be trained using the s et of selected variables for the purpose of accurate appr oximation of bags travel time system throughput or any oth er performance index which is matter of importance for  the system decision makers and schedulers Generally a metamodel is a supplementary model whi ch operates in conjugation with some more detailed mod els. It is generated through integration of simulation and mod eling techniques in those regions of inputs space that s ome experiments and simulation replications have been c ompleted for data collection Highlighting significance of d esign factors enhancing the overall effectiveness of dec ision making process, and reducing the amount of time and cost for analysis of complex systems are some benefits of me tamodels mentioned in literature  7   R e g r e s s i o n  m e t a m o d e l i n g  a n d  response surface approaches have been widely used i n literature for estimating performance indexes in manufacturing enterprises  9   14   a l t h o u g h  m a n y  h a v e  considered the lack of accuracy as their Achilles h eel  5   8   We refer interested readers to  6  f o r  f u r t h e r  d i s c u s s i o n  a b o u t  drawback of regression techniques for metamodeling  From a couple of years ago and concurrent with proliferation of applications of ANN in other areas of science and engineering such as pattern recognition produc tion planning and control researchers have started to u se and adopt them as an abstract model of the detailed sim ulation models  6    8    10    12  a n d  r e f e r e n c e s  w i t h i n  a r e  successful applications of ANN as metamodels for bo th predicting performance measures and optimizing comp lex systems operations and processes In all those cas es researchers aim to develop an ANN metamodel which c an totally or partially replace the detailed simulatio n model in order to predict the performance of the underlying system Instead of using regression and response surface approaches which are the easiest way for building 


metamodels we will adapt ANNs for this purpose Th is preference mainly lies on the reputation of ANNs as powerful universal approximators  15   16   G e n e r a l l y   t h e y  r e q u i r e  fewer assumptions and less precise information abou t the target system when compared with the aforementioned  traditional techniques  6  d e s c r i b e s  i n  d e t a i l s  s t a g e s  r e q u i r e d  for adopting an ANN as a metamodel in details Gene rally analytical approaches cannot describe and mimic all  nonlinear time variant dynamics that one observes i n complex enterprises, and, therefore, are prone to error In the training phase, a variety of common practice s will be taught to the ANN metamodel to enhance its generali ty in term of covering different operation circumstances  Expectedly there will be different distributions am ong datasets yielded by the simulation model Once the training stage of the metamodel is complet e could be done off-line decision-makers and sched ule planners may use it to plan adjust or modify the daily schedule of BHS operation They can easily judge effectiveness and practicality of their decisions i n a few seconds through analyzing results produced by the metamodel This allows them to examine a wide varie ty of plans/scenarios in a short time and choose the most  appropriate one based on the current conditions of the underlying system III  B AGGAGE H ANDLING S YSTEM  Figure 1 is an outline of a BHS and represents its internal components. It includes a multitude of entities and processes such as pushers for load balancing and redundancy u nder failure conditions often considered and installed before screening machines belt and tilt conveyors for ca rrying bags screening machines laterals and make-up loop s operators and baggage handlers in different section s e.g picture review, exit points, hand searching, etc  Since the aviation industry is highly vulnerable to activities such as terrorism and smuggling, all bags are scree ned at the origins In the first stage in the BHS the X-ray s creening machines check all pieces of baggage entered the BH S to ensure that no dangerous goods or threats are loade d onto a plane. If the X-ray machines can not make a decisio n about a piece of baggage, operators will look at the pictur e taken by X-ray machines Suspicious items are diverted to th e higher levels of security for more checks If both machine s and operators can not pass a particular item, it eventu ally goes to the hand searching stations The security green bag s go through some Automatic Tag Readers ATRs that read  the tag attached to each bag in some designs ATRs are  before screening machines like the one shown in Fig. 1\. T hese tags include some information such as a 10-digit bar cod e which is unique to the bag departure flight that the bag ha s been destined for destination and some other informati on The barcode reading of tags acknowledges the location o f the bag in the system. Whenever a bag arrives at the approp riate exit point it is pushed by the pusher to the expected o utput lateral or makeup loop Finally bags are loaded i nto the aircraft by baggage handler As bags are loaded the ir barcodes are scanned to acknowledge their loading a nd to provide an audit trail In literature and for the p urpose of improving performance of this technically complex s ystem detailed simulation models have been developed and validated  3   4   All hardware and phisycal resources in a BHS are op erated and controlled by a central controller It either p erforms or supervises all issues for successfully completing d ifferent tasks such as routing and tracking bags or gather ing and sharing information. The purpose of routing is to d irect bags to their planned destinations and laterals in the s hortest possible time Whenever a bag hits a resource and i ts states changes e.g its tag is not read or it does not p ass the security level\, the central controller reroutes an d directs it to the appropriate location for further process and ch eck To give real time feedback to operators and to update each bag conditions in real time, data are logged on several locations in the baggage handling system by sensors mounted alon g conveyors or by operators \(e.g., manual encoding st ations What we have explained so far is just the internal operation of BHS which includes many machines and operators A large number of stockholders e.g airport manager s schedulers and operation planners airlines ground  service etc take part in the journey of a single bag from  check-in counters in origin to the reclaim area in the desti nation IV  S IMULATION R ESULTS  A highly detailed discrete event simulation model which is essentially a virtual representation of a real worl d BHS is used to generate data required for this study This  three dimensional model has been previously developed, va lidated and used for assessing the underlying system perfor mance and conducting some “what-if” analyses The BHS model was used to simulate one day operatio n of the underlying BHS with 272 flights. Around 50,000 bags are processed during seventeen hours of BHS operation Two types of distribution are used for passengers arri vals to the airport which in fact are distributions for bags en tering to the system Displayed in Fig 2 they almost hold the s ame patterns that one observes in passengers’ arrival i n reality. In our simulation we have assumed that check-ins are open ninety minutes prior to flight Standard Departure T ime \(STD and closes twenty minutes before the flight time A mple Passengers' Arrival Distribution 0 5 10 15 20 25 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 Time Before Flight Bags Economy Economy-Business Fig. 2, Passengers’ arrival distribution based on f light seat types 


  00:00 2:00 4:00 6:00 8:00 10:00 12:00 14:00 16:00 18:00 20:00 22:00 00:00 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 Time Bags / 5 mins 00:00 2:00 4:00 6:00 8:00 10:00 12:00 14:00 16:00 18:00 20:00 22:00 00:00 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 Time Bags / 5 mins 1st X-ray Machin 2nd X-ray Machine 3rd X-ray Machine Total  Fig. 3, profile of bags per five minutes processed by screening machines for one of the experiment don e in this study  pressure has been put on BHS which in some periods exceeds its nominal capacity. Profile of bags processed by three X-ray machines has been shown in Fig 3 There are mornin g and afternoon peaks in number of bags processed which i s a direct results of more flights in these periods We first form an initial set of design factors and variables that are potentially useful for construction of the  metamodel and estimation of performance indexes. Starting wit h a pretty big set of them we built metamodels and measure th eir performance for estimating outputs through some cro ss validation tests. Those design factors that poorly contribute to the estimation accuracy of performance indexes are removed from our analysis and modelling process After completing some pilot experiments, it was fou nd that the following factors and parameters are the most i mportant ones which highly contribute to the performance of trained metamodels flight type economy or economy-busines s check-in point exit point lateral or makeup loop number and predicted Work-In-Process WIP For calculatin g WIP we multiply the time overlaps between each two flig hts \(if the time difference between departure times is bigger t han 120 minutes we assume that they do not have any overla p by number of passengers of each flight and then add th em up Besides those ones considered as inputs to our meta model there are many parameters and design factors that a re critical for smooth and unproblematic operation of BHS Scre ening capacity of X-ray machines bags per minute numbe r of screening machines in operation capacity of buffer s and dispatching rules applied for load balancing before screening machines are some of these important factors. As th ese are a priori determined and almost fixed by system develo pers and designers operators and even central controller do  not have much freedom to change them adaptively based on sys tem operation conditions Therefore we ignore these pa rameters and remove them from input set of metamodel, despit e their substantial influence on system performance indexes  Statics related to time-in system of bags and time required for processing a particular percentile of each flig ht bags are performance measures matter of importance for us in  this study We train the metamodel to learn nonlinear relationships between them and those four inputs in troduced before To explain relations between selected inputs and ou tputs an ANN metamodel with one hidden layer is construct ed. The reason for choosing ANN as the metamodeling approac h rather than linear regression lies in ANN substanti al learning and estimation abilities much beyond what a linear  regression metamodel can do Route blockages caused  by machine breakdowns or overloaded conveyors stochas tic nature of processes \(all decision making processes and time variant dependencies amongst sequential and separat e components of BHS increase the difference in perfor mance between ANN and linear regression in favor of the f ormer Besides, its recent applications in other domains especially in semiconductor industry composed of a huge network of conveyors between many diverse processes and machin es  6  introduce it as an appropriate technique for metamo deling of complex systems To investigate the performance of the method a fou r fold cross validation experiment is conducted through sp litting recorded datasets into training and testing subsets  In each fold we consider 75 of all samples for training t he metamodel and the rest 25 as not-yet-seen sample s for testing the developed metamodel each sample is use d three times for training the metamodel and once for evalu ating the constructed metamodel To make sure that samples i n both training and test sets are completely unrelated to each other we first randomly change the order of them in the d atasets and organize them by chance The ANN metamodel was trained only for one hundred epochs. This takes less than five seconds for each fold to be completed. The ANN training converges quickly and e rror is pretty small Table 1 demonstrates the averaged res ults for estimating performance measures after applying the four fold cross validation scheme Three experiments were con ducted where all flights were economy type, economy-busine ss type and a mix of them. Each row of the table shows the averaged results for one experiment. Estimation accuracy for all cases 


is around 90 which is acceptable for decision make rs and operation schedulers of BHS. Elapsed time for estim ating the performance index for each fold is less than one mi llisecond which means that the trained metamodel is much fast er than the detailed simulation model for estimating and pr edicting BHS operation Minimum time required for running simulation model for each of the three experiments is ninety minutes It is worthy to mention that performance of NN metamodels for predicting outputs slightly declines  as percentile of processed bags increases For instanc e in both economy and economy-business experiments predictio n performance is best for time required for processin g 50 of each flight bags and is worst for time required for processing 90 of each flight bags Such a drop in performance  of metamodel may be attributed to the stochastic natur e of BHS operations. As effects of probabilistic events on t ime required for processing higher percentiles of bags is bigger than their lower percentiles predictions of the former group becomes more problematic. In these cases, increasing the ne twork size either through considering more hidden layers or ad ding more neurons, does not help to improve the metamodel pre diction performance and even may decrease it A difference between the work done in this study wi th those ones conducted previously in the area of meta modeling  5   8   13  i s  t h a t  o u r  m e t a m o d e l  g e t s  i n p u t s  t h a t  a l l  o f  them are dynamic than static While others have only foc used on the underlying system structure and properties, we have tried to model its behaviour based on different inputs f light schedule\ and variables of the system It is also worth mentioning that often the develope d metamodels are only able to represent and describe behaviour of the steady state of the underlying systems, not its transient one Often to drive simulation models to their stea dy state some initial warm-up periods are considered  5   10   11   Estimation accuracy in those periods that BHS start s and stops its operation is also matter of importance e arly in the morning and late in the evening When choosing inp uts for the metamodel we have made provision against this and defined appropriate inputs \(e.g., WIP\ that well re flect system operation condition even in transient states From the practical application standpoint one of t he usefulness of the developed metamodel is to realize  a flight schedule while running the BHS activities smoothly with minimum risk of conveyor blockage and rout congesti on and less idleness of screening machines As there is a stringent 11pm-6am curfew at the airport that we did this stu dy for its BHS flight schedulers are under pressure to plan f light schedule and run the BHS as robustly as possible to avoid any problem due to the commence of curfew restriction Through quickly yet accurately estimation of the performanc e measures for one day and even one week operation of BHS the developed metamodel can serve as a very valuabl e decision-aiding tool for system planners and schedu lers To further improve the approximation precision of metamodels, a technique may be employed for classif ying the input variables before feeding them into metamodels  Through this way not only the excellent performanc e of metamodels is guaranteed as each one is trained for a specific operation mode of the BHS, but also they will be ke pt small in dimension which this in turn makes their train ing utilization and update tasks much easier Ultimate ly the metamodels will provide a great deal of information  as simulation model does but with much less effort an d computation requirements These stunning features w ill introduce them as computationally cheap approximati on tools quite useful for real time applications where simu lation models fail to assist due to the lack of resources necessary for their operation To guarantee reliable performance of the metamodel in real world applications, a mechanism could also be devel oped to identify those new cases that have not been involve d in the initial data sets used for training the metamodels  This mechanism will perform on-line training on the prev iously generated metamodel in these occasions constantly improving its precision TABLE I R ESULT S UMMARY FOR A 5  F OLD C ROSS V ALIDATION T EST  Estimation Accuracy Time Required for Processing Specific Percentiles of each Flight Bags Flight Type Min of Travel Time Average of Travel Time 50 80 90 Economy 91.77 89.15 91.27 88.34 87.25 EconomyBusiness 92.12 90.39 90.23 87.88 88.76 Both 90.05 90.27 90.26 88.23 87.56  V  C ONCLUSION  As an emerging research direction metamodeling has  attracted many researchers in recent years to overc ome drawbacks of detailed and computationally expensive  simulation models Due to the importance of baggage  handling system for smooth operation of an airport complex its operation planners and schedulers always look f or some robust quick and reliable decision-aiding tools t hat can be used in real time. Motivated by all these issues, i n this study we developed a metamodel for estimation of those performance measures which are matter of importance  for system decision makers and schedulers of baggage ha ndling system A detailed stochastic discrete event simu lation model of the underlying system was used and modifie d for logging data required for constructing the metamode l An artificial neural network with one hidden layer was  trained using recorded data and used as a metamodel Some p ilot experiments were conducted to identify the most inf ormative design factors and parameters Demonstrated results  in this paper showed that the proposed metamodel can accura tely predict performance measures such as statics relate d to travel time of bags through the system \(from check-ins to laterals or makeup loops\. Accuracy and little computation mass makes this metamodel a great decision aiding tool for ope ration 


planners Without requiring any especial expertise  they can quickly evaluate and modify preliminary operation s chedules that they have prepared for BHS before finalizing their decisions Although results obtained in this paper are accepta ble research is undergoing to enhance the estimation ac curacy of metamodels. This can be achieved through either ide ntifying more influential parameters on performance measures  and using them for creating the metamodel or pre-classi fying the logged data in a couple of categories and then trai ning a metamodel for each category Another research direction is to develop some trans parent models which clearly represent and mathematically d escribe dependencies amongst inputs and performance measure s Such a model will provide invaluable insights into the system operation Dynamic Bayesian network with its capabi lity to identify dependencies from data and represent them in its structure is a potential tool for accomplishing thi s task R EFERENCES  1  IATA’s Passenger Forecast 2007-2011 www.iata.org  2  T. Chen, “A Fuzzy Back Propagation Network For Outp ut Time Prediction In A Wafer Fab”, Journal of Applied Soft Computing 2/3F 2003, pp. 211-222 3  V. T. Le, D. Creighton, S. Nahavandi, “Simulation-b ased Input Loading Condition Optimisation of Airport Baggage H andling Systems”, Proceedings of the IEEE Intelligent Trans portation Systems Conference, USA, 2007, pp. 574-579 4  M. Johnstone, D. Creighton, S. Nahavandi, “Enabling Industrial Scale Simulation / Emulation Models”, Proceedings of the Winter Simulation Conference, US, 2007, pp. 1028-034 5  Y. Kuo,  T. Yang, B. A. Peters, I. Chang, “Simulati on Metamodel Development Using Uniform Design And Neural Network s For Automated Material Handling Systems In Semiconducto r Wafer Fabrication”, Simulation Modelling Practice and The ory, Vol. 15, 2007 pp. 1002-1015 6  D. J. Fonseca, D.O. Navaresse, G. P. Moynihan, “Sim ulation Metamodeling Through Artificial Neural Networks”, E ngineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 16, 2 003, pp. 177-183 7  S. Durieux, H.Pierreval, “Regression metamodeling f or the design of automated manufacturing system composed of parallel machines sharing a material handling resource”, Internationa l Journal of Production Economics, Vol. 89, No. 1, 2004, pp. 2130 8  F. Altiparmak, B. Dengiz, A. A. Bulgak, “Buffer All ocation And Performance Modeling In Asynchronous Assembly Syste m Operations An Artificial Neural Network Metamodeling Approach Applied Soft Computing, Vol. 7, No. 3, 2007, pp. 946-956 9  J.  J. P. C. Kleijnen, “Kriging Metamodeling in Sim ulation: A Review European Journal of Operational Research, Vol. 192 No. 3, 2009, pp 707-716 10  T. Chen, Y.-C. Lin, “A hybrid and intelligent syste m for predicting lot output time in a semiconductor fabrication factory Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 4259, 2006, pp. 757-7 66 11  G. Yildiz, O. Eski, “An Artificial Neural Network B ased Simulation Metamodeling Approach for Dual Resource Constrained Assembly Line”, ICANN 2006, Part II, LNCS 4132, 2006, pp. 10 02-1011 12  T. Yang, H. C. Lin, M. Chen, “Metamodeling Approach In Solving The Machine Parameters Optimization Problem Using Neura l Network And Genetic Algorithms:A Case Study”, Robotics and Comp uter-Integrated Manufacturing, Vol. 22, 2006, pp. 322-331 13  R. D. Hurrion, “An Example of Simulation Optimisati on Using a Neural Network Metamodel: Finding the Optimum Numbe r of Kanbans in a Manufacturing System”, Journal of the Operatio nal Research Society, Vol. 48, No. 11, 1997, pp. 1105-1112 14  W. Hu, L. Enying, G.Y. Li, Z.H. Zhong, “Development of metamodeling based optimization system for high non linear engineering problems”, Advances in Engineering Soft ware, Vol. 39 2008, pp. 629–645 15  K. Hornik, M. Stinchcombe, H. White, “Multilayer Fe edforward Networks are Universal Approximators”, Neural Netwo rks, Vol. 2 1989, pp. 359–366 16  K. Funahashi, “On The Approximate Realization Of Co ntinuous Mappings By Neural Networks”, Neural Networks, Vol 2, 1989, pp 183–192 


erally be applied directly to the raw data without losing approximation order. \(Much work has been done in creating balanced scaling vectors that can be applied directly to data. See [1], [7], and [8] for more details of the data, one has to rst convert the raw data to basis coecients in the Y0 space, called preltering, and if reconstructing the data, convert the basis coecients back into data, called postltering. Ideally, a prelter will preserve the o2-norm of the data called an ruwkrjrqdo prelter, as well as preserve the polynomial order of the data, but orthogonal prelters that preserve approximation order of the basis are sometimes hard to nd. \(They also have issues on bounded regions. See [5] for an excellent introduction to preltering nal prelter is more necessary in image compresProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 sion applications than in pattern recognition. We are able to use a relatively simple non-orthogonal prelter, called a quasi-interpolation prelter, that maps the data to basis coecients in Y0 so that the combination of basis functions interpolates data sampled from polynomials up to the approximation order of the basis, and comes close to interpolating non-polynomial data 2. Useful Bases There are a number of orthogonal multiwavelet bases that have been developed. \(See [9] and [10 for some other examples the ones presented here have the advantage of being easily applied to bounded data, but they also have another advantage. The following bases all generate spaces that contain spline spaces; that is, piecewise polynomial spaces over integer knots that meet certain match-up conditions at the integers. We use the notation Sug\(Z polynomials of degree g that have equal uth derivatives at integer knots, where the 0th derivative is understood to be the function value. Thus, while we will refer to the approximation order n of the following bases, it it important to realize that the Y0 space generated by the bases will also contain piecewise polynomials of degree n  1 that are either continuous at integer values, or in the case of the last basis, have one derivative at integer values 2.1 GHM Basis The GHM basis rst appeared in [3], and was re 


constructed from a macroelement perspective in [4 and are illustrated in Figure 10. This scaling vector 1> !2 Y0 space that it generates also includes the spline space S01 \(Z 1 !2 Figure 10: The GHM scaling vector The scaling vector satises equation \(3 the following matrix coecients f2 0  120 0 0  f1 3 s 2 20 9 20 0 0  f0 s 2 2 9 20 0 3 s 2 10  f1  3 s 2 20 1 20 4 5 3 s 2 


10   The function values needed to interpolate data or otherwise develop prelters are 1\(1 1 0 1 1  1 2  1  1 2  3 s 3 10 and !2  1 2   4 s 6 5  Orthonormal basis elements for the left and right boundaries of a data set are constructed by keeping the right and left half of !1, respectively, and normalizing; that is O1 s 2!1"[0>1] and !U1 s 2!1"[1>0 respectively. Their decomposition lters reect this normalization in all but the entries corresponding to dilated versions of these functions The multiwavelet 1> #2 the GHM scaling vector is illustrated in Figure 11 and satises the equation \(5 trix coecients g2 


0 120 0 s 2 20  g1  3 s 2 20 9 20 3 10 9 s 2 20  g0 s 2 2 9 20 0 9 s 2 20  g1  3 s 2 20 1 20 310 s 2 20   Only truncated and normalized versions of the symmetric #1 are needed at the boundaries O1 s 


2#1"[0>1] and #U1 s 2#1"[1>0 on the left and right, respectively 1 #2 Figure 11: The GHM multiwavelet Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 2.2 Approximation-Order-4 Basis The groundwork for this basis was laid in [2 although the scaling vector was not explicitly constructed in that paper. The scaling vector  1> !2> !3> !4 approximation order 4. The Y0 space that it generates also includes the spline space S03\(Z one may notice that !2 and !3 are quadratic and cubic polynomials, respectively, restricted to [0> 1 and normalized 1 2 3 4 Figure 12: An approximation-order-4 scaling vector The scaling vector satises the dilation equation \(3 ing vector. However, the four 4  4 matrix coecients are too large to provide here, and are available instead from the author?s website www.wku.edu/?bruce.kessler, as are the function values needed to interpolate data or otherwise develop prelters As before, orthonormal basis elements for the left and right boundaries of a data set are constructed by keeping the right and left half of !1 respectively, and normalizing; that is O1 s 2!1"[0>1] and !U1 s 2!1"[1>0 respectively. Their decomposition lters reect this normalization in all but the entries corresponding to dilated versions of these functions The multiwavelet 1> #2> #3> #4 ated with this scaling vector is illustrated in Fig 


ure 13, with the matrix solutions to the dilation equation \(5 Again, only truncated and normalized versions of the symmetric #1 are needed at the boundaries O1 s 2#1"[0>1] and #U1 s 2#1"[1>0 on the left and right, respectively 1 2 3 4 Figure 13: The multiwavelet associated with the scaling vector in Section 2.2 2.3 Dierentiable Basis with Approximation Order 4 Each of the bases shown in the previous sections include a continuous spline space, but the Y0 space in each case also contains much more than that With each basis, Y0 will also contain functions that look like the left and right halves of the !1 function in that particular scaling vector. Hence, each approximation space, even at the lowest resolution will contain functions that have at least one nondierentiable ?corner?. This may not be desirable Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 especially if the points of interest in the original signal happen to fall on these corners at every resolution \(for example, at the midpoint of the data set basis \(i.e., has no corners A scaling vector was developed by the author in 6] that has approximation order 4, and generates a space that contains the spline space S13\(Z is, the space of piecewise cubic polynomials that are both continuous and dierentiable at the integer knots. This scaling vector 1> !2> !3> !4 is illustrated in Figure 14. As with the basis discussed in Section 2.2, the matrix coecients that satisfy the dilation equation \(3 are available on the author?s website, as are the function values needed to interpolate data or otherwise develop prelters. Left- and right-hand versions of both !1 and 2 can be created to handle bounded data 


1 !2 3 !4 Figure 14: A digerentiable approximation-order-4 scaling vector The multiwavelet 1> #2> #3> #4 ated with this scaling vector is illustrated in Figure 15, with the matrix solutions to the dilation equation \(5 The website also contains the matrices needed for lter construction of the left and right boundary wavelets 1 #2 3 #4 Figure 15: The multiwavelet associated with the scaling vector in Section 2.3 3. Pattern Matching The premise behind using wavelets for pattern matching is that the wavelet decomposition for the pattern for which you are searching and for the pattern added to data sampled from a polynomial of degree less than the approximation order of your scaling vector will be equal. For example, the wavelet decompositions for both data sets shown in Figure 16 will be identical when using either of the bases discussed in Sections 2.2 and 2.3. It is necessary that the pattern not be in the lowest-resolution approximation space, so that it will not have a wavelet decomposition with only 0 coecients. This problem is rare, but if it occurs, it is remedied by either continuing the decomposition to an even lowerresolution space, or by using a dierent scaling vector of lower approximation order In most cases, the pattern will not be overlaid upon perfectly polynomial data, and so, the wavelet decompositions will not match exactly. However, if the pattern is prominent enough in the signal so that the root mean square error \(UPVH new decomposition {gl} when compared to the decomposition {gl } of the original pattern, as dened Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 by UPVH vuuuut QX l=1 gl  gl Q 


is suciently small, then the pattern will still be detected Figure 16: Pattern data \(top data obscured by cubic polynomial data bottom When using a single scaling function and wavelet are used in applications, each successively smoother approximation of the data stretches the support of the basis functions, eectively drawing more data from outside the region where the pattern actually occurs. By using the scaling vectors and multiwavelets mentioned in Section 2, we are able to analyze data on a bounded region, and ignore data outside of that region 3.1 When to Use Wavelets Wavelet decompositions can be used to nd patterns in any type of data, but there are no advantages to using them for exact pattern matching. For example, if searching for the word ?the? in a text le or in packet data, we have to search for the exact ASCII values 116, 104, and 101 in succession Changing those values, even by a constant amount changes the word. Also, to apply the wavelet bases mentioned in Section 2, we need 2q + 1 data values for some integer q A 1 for the DGM and the approximation-order-4 basis, and 2q+2 data values for some integer q A 1 for the basis in Section 2.3 so we would have to pad the target pattern with spaces. This type of search can be conducted much more eciently using other search methods, such as Bloom lters, etc However, for quantitative data like packet trac dependent upon time, multiwavelets have the potential to spot patterns that are not immediately noticable to the human eye, such as in the bottom graph of Figure 16. The following section gives an example of how multiwavelets can be used to detect a ?low and slow? pattern caused by data exltration 3.2 Trac Analysis Example Suppose that we have a corrupted computer and we are aware through previous experience that this particular piece of malevolent code tends to sneak? data out under the ?TCP? protocol in the following pattern a single packet of size 256 bytes, followed approximately 1 second later by another packet of size 512 bytes one second later, four packets of size 256 bytes are sent with a quarter second gap between 


the packets, and one quarter-second later, three packets of size 512 bytes are sent, followed one-quarter second later by one packet of size 256 bytes The accumulated bytes sent with respect to time in seconds are shown in Figure 17 Total Bytes Seconds Figure 17: Accumulated bytes for the example pattern The packets described above have been inserted into a set of network trac packet collected from the author?s laptop over roughly 4 minutes of usage starting at w = 240 seconds. The total accumulated outgoing bytes are illustrated in Figure 18. To apply the basis looking for this specic pattern, we Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 accumulate the bytes on quarter-second intervals and generate a wavelet decomposition for a sliding 4-second window, which is compared to the original pattern?s decomposition with the UPVH. The UPVH for the dierent starting times are shown in Figure 19. Note the low value of the UPVH at w = 240 seconds, indicating a close match to our target pattern at that time Total Bytes Seconds Figure 18: Accumulated outgoing bytes of a sample usage period plus the packets in our pattern UPVH Seconds Figure 19: UPVH values \(less than 50 blocks of data with digerent starting times Note the low value of the UPVH at w = 240 seconds, indicating a close match to our target pattern at that time In fairness, this method of nding patterns has many of the same weaknesses found in other signature-matching approaches. The pattern has to be known ahead of time, which means that this detection scheme would still be vulnerable to rst-time attacks. Also, a completely innocuous data ow occurring with very similiar timing and quantities as our pattern will still cause a low UPVH value, possibly causing a false-positive alert. We do claim 


however, that we have a greater capacity for nding patterns in quantiable amounts that are obscured by standard network trac. Also, we can adjust the sensitivity of the search without changing the signature for which we are searching, by adjusting the threshold of the UPVH?s for which an alert is issued. Thus, statistical techniques and adaptive learning can be used to help develop optimal threshold levels for a particular pattern 4. Conclusion Wavelet analysis holds an as-of-yet untapped potential for analyzing usage patterns in network trac ows, due to their ability to lter out data up to a given approximation order. Neither simple character searches nor Fourier analysis has this capability. Also, while Fourier analysis generally gives only frequency information within an analysis window, wavelet analysis gives some amount of both frequency information and the location of that frequency activity. The additional information comes at no additional computational costs, since the bases are generally applied by convolving matrix lters over the data \(repeated matrix multiplication over sliding blocks of data tiwavelet bases introduced in this document should prove to be particularly useful in pattern-matching applications, due to their short support \(that is, non-zero only over a small interval the inclusion of splines in the approximation spaces instead of just polynomials, and the ability to use them on time series with left and right boundaries The author is currently working with computer scientists at the CyberDefense Lab \(CDL at Western Kentucky University to develop software that will utilize these bases in network security, intrusion-detection, and data-extrusion applications. Once developed, we will study the eectiveness of this type of analysis in detecting malicious behavior as compared to the more commonly used techniques, with the hope of improving detection capabilities while maintaining a low false-positive rate. The software will initially be tested in the CDL?s sandbox while running attacks from its attack library with various background usage scripts being implemented, but will eventually move to less controlled network environments Acknowledments: This work supported in part by the NACMAST consortium under contract 


EWAGSI-07-SC-0003 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References 1] C. K. Chui and Q. T. Jiang, ?Multivariate Balanced Vector-Valued Renable Functions?, in: V. W. Haussmann, K. Jetter, M Reimer, and J. Sto¨ckler \(Eds velopment in Multivariate Approximation, vol 145, Birkha¨user Verlag, Basel \(2003 102 2] G. Donovan, J. Geronimo, and D. Hardin Intertwining Multiresolution Analyses and the Construction of Piecewise Polynomial Wavelets?, SIAM J. Math. Anal. 27\(6 1996 1791?1815 3] J. Geronimo, D. Hardin, and P. Massopust Fractal Functions and Wavelet Expansions Based on Several Scaling Functions?, J. Approx. Theory 78:3 \(1994 4] D. Hardin and B. Kessler, ?Orthogonal Macroelement Scaling Vectors and Wavelets in 1-D?, Arab. J. Sci. Eng. Sect. C \(Theme Issue: Wavelet and Fractal Methods in Science and Engineering: Part 1 2003 5] D. Hardin and D. Roach, ?Multiwavelet Prelters I: Orthogonal Prelters Preserving Approximation Order s  2?, IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II: Analog Digital Signal Proces 45\(8 1998 6] B. Kessler, ?An Orthogonal Scaling Vector Generating a Space of F1 Cubic Splines Using Macroelements?, J. Concrete Appl. Math Special Issue on Wavelets and Applications 4\(4 2006 7] J. Lebrun and M. Vetterli, ?Balanced Multiwavelet Theory and Design?, IEEE Trans. Signal Process. 46\(4 1998 8] J. Lebrun and M. Vetterli, ?High Order Balanced Multiwavelets?, in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech, Signal Processing ICASSP May 1998 1532 9] J. Lian, ?Armlets and Balanced Multiwavelets Flipping Filter Construction?, IEEE Trans Signal Process. 53\(5 2005 10] I. W. Selesnick, ?Balanced GHM-like Multiscaling Functions?, IEEE Signal Process. Lett 6\(5 1999 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207–216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Int’l Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Int’l Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





