 Enterprise Architecture in Government: Fad or Future  Kristian Hjort-Madsen IT-University of Copenhagen Rued Langgaards Vej 7 DK-2300 Copenhagen S Denmark Tel: + 45 31 61 12 31 khm@eagov.org Jan Pries-Heje Roskilde University Universitetsvej 1 DK-4000 Roskilde Denmark Tel: +45 46 74 30 51 janph@ruc.dk   Abstract Enterprise Architecture \(EA\ has been promoted as a key tool for transformation and modernization of government. In this paper we study what has driven the use and adoption of the EA concept in the Danish central government. Based on analysis of focus group 
and guru interviews with government CIO s enterprise architects, and consultants, as well as extensive document studies, we find that there are two streams in public sector EA programs: a stable element of it-architecture and a fashion driven business architecture element used in parallel, but with different focus, approach and artifacts. We conclude that EA in government to a large extend is driven by fashion. Finally, we discuss the role of EA in the future and point out that EA can not transform government by itself. Fundamental transformation to the tasks performed in public organizations is only 
achieved if institutional forces promote transformation  1  Introduction  Enterprise Architecture \(EA\ is the new buzz word for information systems \(IS\ planning in many governments around the wo  Sim ilar to tren ds in the past such as Management by Objectives, Total Quality Management and Business Process Reengineering, the EA reform agenda in government promises to break down the traditional bureaucracy  and create a service oriented public sector with 
citizens and businesses at the cen  Traditionally IS planning is conducted by organizations to ensure that IS resources are effectively u ho w e v e r, prom ise s a n e w line of thinking with the transformation and modernization of government institutions as a new public management reform tool [6    John Zachman in trodu ced th e f i rs t f r a m e w ork  o f  EA in the late 1980's with the purpose of moving away from an isolated IS development focus, and instead moving to an enterprise-wide documentation, analysis 
and planning approach. Since then several studies have clarified the definition - including  Common across various definitions of EA is the alignment of IS resources with an organization s business strategy. The definition of EA that we will use is based on h ere EA is t h e org an izi n g log i c  for applications, data, and infrastructure technologies as captured in a set of policies and technical choices that form unifying principles and practice across projects and lines of business in an enterprise. The vision is to create an interoperable infrastructure to guide the integration of government operations and 
services at all layers of government [11   T hus E A i s  part of a reform paradigm in e-government, where IS is perceived as a central vehicle in administrative reforms and transformation  There is no doubt that the EA rhetoric of transformation and modernization is appealing to many public managers. Announcing reforms, criticizing bureaucracy, praising new management techniques and promising improved services to citizens and business is popular in government dopt i n g EA  is doing something and it can attract favorable attention to the politicians and bureaucrats who 
espouse it. But it might also be exaggerated to ignore powerful forces of path-dependency and selfdisequilibration that is the capacity of management reform initiatives to produce the opposite of their intended resu Very little research can be found that documents the value of EA [3; 15; 16 P a s t ex perien ces  w i t h  administrative reform suggest two possible paths in which a reform initiative like EA can be influential  e is t h e incubated path where reform ideas do not come into full effect until long after their original instruction. Another path is an 
acute/rapid  innovation pattern, in which reform programs peak early and then breaks up quickly. Topics such as business process engineering and enterprise resource planning have been described as fads  n d  other researchers have noted that waves of fads and fancies tend to characterize IS/IT [19 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


 Based on Abrahamson s management fashion theory i s paper inv e s t i g ate s t h e f o r m atio n and adoption of EA in the central government of Denmark. Empirically grounded in focus group interviews and interviews with key informants, we answer the research question What is the purpose of EA and what has driven the use and adoption of the EA concept in Danish central government The remainder of the paper is organized as follows First we lay out our theoretical foundation including a neo-institutional perspective focusing on management fashion theory. In section 3 we give a thorough account of our research method and show a detailed example of the analytic induction method we have used. In section 4 our finding are categorized and explained. Section 5 discusses the finding and section 6 concludes and answers our research question. Finally at the end of section 6 we discuss the future of EA  2  Theoretical Framework  We apply Abrahamson s management fashion theory to answer our research question. Other researchers have used the management fashion theory to compare the strength and duration of selected fashion waves e look  at on e s p ecif ic fashion  EA to see if this particular IS technique is a fundamental improvement to traditional e-government challenges with Information Systems \(IS\ public organizations Building on neo-institutional theory [23; 24 an d  theories of innovation and diffus b rah a m s o n  describes a management fashion, not as simple spontaneous diffusion of guru-driven techniques, but as shaped by culture, society and economics  Abrahamson defines management fashion as The process by which management fashion-setters consulting firms, management gurus, researchers etc.\tinuously redefine both their own and fashion followers¥ collective beliefs about management techniques which lead to rational management progress  c ri b e s t h e ph e n o m e n on a s  rapid, bell shaped swings in management techniques where norms of managerial progress represent societal expectations that managers use as forms of improved management techniques Figure 1 below illustrates how Abrahamson s theory first seeks to understand the creation, selection processing, and diffusion by suppliers of management fashion through certain rhetoric and techniques. The suppliers are represented by consulting firms, business schools, gurus and mass media organizations    Supply by management fashion setters Gurus Mass media organizations Consulting firms Business schools Demand by management fashion users  Figure 1: Management fashion setting process   The left side of figure 1 represents the supply for management fashion. The arrow leading out implies that during the processing stage, fashion-setters seek to identify the best-selling rhetoric to carry the selected techniques. This rhetoric is then used in the diffusion stage where the selected techniques are launched into the management fashion market The right side of figure 1 represents the demand for management by fashion users. The arrow leading out indicates that during the creation stage fashion-setters sense the up-coming preferences that will guide the demand and create management techniques to satisfy them. In the next stage, they select those techniques which they perceive as bestsellers In the processing phase, the fashion-setters elaborate on different rhetoric to convince the management fashion market and the fashion-followers that their techniques are both rational and at the forefront of management progress. They aim to do so by attempting to create beliefs that there are organizational performance gaps and that the created techniques facilitates the process of reducing these gaps. In many cases, fashion-setters exploit techniques that are being used by a few currently successful companies, and present their success to justify their claims According to Abrahamson e techn i qu e s  chosen in the creation stage do not have to be better nor more efficient than already existing techniques Instead, the central issue is that they differ significantly from them. Hence, the major assignment for the fashion-setters is to form collective beliefs that their particular managerial techniques are not only innovative but also constitute a substantial improvement in relation to state-of-the-art in management. This belief, though often based on early adopters anecdotal success, generates increasing Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


 pressure on every organization to adopt the innovation because organizational stakeholders expect managers to employ modern and efficient techniques to manage their organizations  In some cases these fashion beliefs may be accurate, however in a many situations the techniques represent nothing but old techniques that have been reinvented or rediscovered by the fashion-setters The powerful use of neo-institutional theory in Abrahamson s theory asserts that norms of both rationality and management progress influence managers to adopt management techniques perceived as progressive.  By arguing that there is a management fashion-setting community which shapes transitory collective beliefs among management fashionfollowers that certain techniques are rational and at the forefront of management progress, Abrahamson overcomes what he calls the pro-innovation biases in the traditional innovation diffusion literatu  Many researchers have argued that IS is an instrument to drive administrative reforms and transformation [26; 27  O t he r s ha ve  ho w e ve r  fo u n d  few empirical studies to document the impacts of IS on public administration, and it has been argued that most government mangers want to keep things the way they are  As noted in the introduction, not many public or private organizations have been able to reap the benefits of EA planning [3 n d w i t h  f e w  exceptions [e.g ear ch h a s  y e t to an s w er h o w  institutions influence the design, use, and consequences of IS planning initiatives, either within or across organizations Abrahamson s theory offers a vantage point for conceptualizing EA formation and adoption as an emergent, evolving, embedded, fragmented, and provisional social production that is shaped as much by cultural and structural forces in the organizational context, in which they are implemented, as rational technical and economic ones  3  Research Design  To answer our research question on the purpose and drivers of EA we used two research approaches. In the first part we gathered two focus groups, one with CIOs and one with chief enterprise architects. In the second part we interviewed two experts or Gurus to use the language of Management Fashion Theory and analyzed official documents, newspapers and official websites. Thus we triangulated sources of evidence and methods for data collection  Focus groups are a qualitative research method where the group of people in focus is asked about their attitude towards an idea, a concept or a produc  here we had EA as the focus. In the group meeting we phrased questions to the group. Participants were free to talk and discuss with other group members. In fact we encouraged as much discussion in the focus groups as possible To organize the focus group discussions we had prepared a semi-structured interview guide. In Table 1 we have shown the overall structure and main questions from this interview guide  Table 1: Excerpt from the semi-structured interview guide Question 1 Each Participant. Where from, what role, and daily job 2 Why are you working with Enterprise Architecture EA 3 Advantages from EA; in projects across organization; across society 4 IS EA better or worse than traditional strategic planning 5 How have you used EA, concrete examples 6 Anything special about EA in the public sector 7 Will EA exist in three years   Focus group interviews were carried out in March 2008. Respondents were selected based on their official position as CIO s or chef architects and e-mail invitations were sent to CIO s that actively participate in the Danish central government s IT Coordination Forum and chief architects that participate in ITarchitecture Committee During the focus groups one author concentrated on facilitating a good discussion. The other author took notes, recorded and videotaped the sessions. Each focus group interview lasted between two and three hours. In Table 2 we have shown the participants in the focus groups, their affiliations and role. Furthermore at the bottom of Table 2 we have shown the Gurus we interviewed in June 2008 to obtain supplementary interview data  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 Table 2: Interviewees in two focus group sessions and two çGurué interviews Focus Group   Organization Role in relation to EA 1 Directorate for Food Fisheries and Agriculture IT Development Manager 1 Ministry of Foreign Affairs CIO 1 The Danish Prison Service CIO 2 Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Enterprise architect 2 Ministry of Economic and Business Affairs Enterprise architect 2 Public Unit responsible for coherent digital healthcare in Denmark Enterprise architect Guru Gartner Group Consulting Director Experienced Consultant in EA Guru  Earlier in\istry of Science Technology Innovation. Main author of Experienced Consultant in EA  All focus group interviews were tape- and video recorded and subsequently transcribed in their full length. Interview summaries and quotes were sent to interviewees for clearance The interviews were supplemented by examining official documents \(strategy papers, white papers, etc the official web sites of the Ministry of Science Technology and Innovation as well as the Ministry of Finance, and newspaper clippings about EA in government In this way, we made considerable effort creating a historical reconstruction and to try to check the interviewee s views at some historical time against documentation For analysis we used analytic indu w h ic h  can be described as a systematic examination of similarities between various social phenomena in order to develop concepts or ideas In Figure 2 we have shown an example of the coding we made of the transcribed interviews. In the middle of the figure an excerpt of the transcribed text is inserted \(in Danish bubbles around the text are shown our coding of the text. After coding the whole text we grouped the codings. This grouping was an iterative process where some codings were grouped in one group, then moved to another group, then back then copied to both groups and so on. This process continued until we could induce clear findings from each of the group of codings. In the section below we give an account of our findings  har vi haft utroligt mange forskellige fagsystemer, som hver isÊr har kunnet noget. Og mange af de ting, de har kunnet har jo vÊret lidt det samme. De har alle sammen kunnet handle med kunder, de har alle sammen kunnet udbetale penge og s videre. Det har vi brugt en meget lang periode p fem Âr eller sÂdan noget p at konsolidere s meget, vi kunne Dels havde vi brug for nogle flere penge simpelthen for at drive butikken, s det vil sige, at vi skulle igennem en budgetanalyse med Finansministeriet. Samtidig faldt det sammen med, at der var varslet en stor xxxreform, som ville trÊde i kraft 1. januar 20xx S fik vi lidt hjÊlp fra nogle konsulentfirmaer og Finansministeriet til at f lavet en budgetanalyse, hvor vi bl.a. fik unders¯gt hvad er det egentlig for en forretning, vi har og hvad er det, der er karakteristisk? Og der fandt man frem til, at der er sÊrligt fire cost drivers, som karakteriserer os: Den ene er at vi har en hel utrolig stor hyppighed af ndringer inden for vores forretningsomrÂde fordi der kommer s utroligt mange ndringer fra xxx p vores omrÂde Udover det, s var der et par andre ting i de cost drivers, som gjorde, at man nok havde svÊrt ved at finde en sammenlignelig statslig institution. Jo, der ville nok vÊre nogle stykker, men det som konsulentfirmaet ligesom fandt, som man nok mest kunne sammenligne os med, det var bankvirksomhed, som drev andet end bankvirksomhed alts f.eks. ogs med pensioner og andre ting. Og det er mere en fabrikstypevirksomhed, vi har, hvor vi har rigtig rigtig mange forskellige typer af ydelser vi laver efter forskellige skabeloner. Og da vi alligevel stod og skulle have kigget p vores samlede budget, og vi skulle have et nyt system, som kunne hÂndtere xxx-reformen fordi den eksisterende platform simpelthen var en brÊndende platform; den var s gammel og det var s svÊrt at finde nogen der kunne vedligeholde den, s turde man simpelthen ikke satse pÂ, at vi kunne drive et program helt frem til 20xx med de 2-3 programm¯rer, som i ¯vrigt havde vÊret i xxx i 20 Âr. S vi fik faktisk en pose penge som s skulle rÊkke til, at udover at lave et nyt system til os, s skulle vi have en helt ny arkitektur, og det skulle vÊre SOA  Very many systems Five years to consolidate Outside event Reform Context Many changes from outside Different cost-drivers from other gov. institutions Existing platform was burning Old Impossible to maintain Report pointed out SOA savings  Figure 2: Example of the coding of interview data  4  Analysis  In this section we present the results of our analysis using analytic induction. To preserve the richness of our data we have illustrated every single point of our analysis with excerpts and citations from the interviews Following Abrahamson s theory of management fashion, we first investigate the supply for management fashion to understand why and how EA was launched in the central government of Denmark Grounded in our focus group interviews, we hereafter analyze how EA is actually adopted in the central government of Denmark  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 4.1 Launching the EA Fashion  The main vision for Denmark s EA efforts was formulated in a White Paper presented by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation \(MSTI\ in 2003 [34 T h e w h ite paper recom m e n d s t h at t h e  public sector takes more active responsibility for its own EA. A common EA framework was to be established for planning public sector IT systems and ensuring interoperability, and efforts should be concerted to increase knowledge sharing among agencies  MSTI was looking for new approaches to the interoperability challenges that governments in most countries are facing in the struggle to support the exchange of data and the sharing of information and knowledge across IT-systems and business processes According to a former public servant in The Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation \(and now EA guru  EA was the solution to many of our problems. Meta Group [now Gartne trodu ced the  EA concept a concept that has now proven to work in both private and public organizations  Asking the former public servant in the MSTI why EA was pushed so hard in 2003 he also mentions politics EA was also a new platform for our ministry MSTI\ which we could use to steer the e-government development with we needed a platform to communicate from and EA was bought by everybody from the top and down  MSTI is responsible for IT-policy in the Danish central government. But, top-level responsibility for egovernment resides with the Danish Ministry of Finance \(FM\And EA was therefore also a way to gain political influence for MSTI. FM does not focus on technology and MSTI therefore used EA to push the technical interoperability challenges that information and service sharing and management represents in e-government to create a political platform for the work performed in the MSTI In our interviews we also sought to understand why EA is better than previous IS planning techniques like e.g. IS Planning. According to the Gartner director, EA is significantly different from traditional IS planning EA is a top-down, business driven approach to ITmanagement We need to tackle the problems of growing IT-investments and inhomogeneous ITsystem development with this new approach if we want to be successful in government  Denmark has been a leading EA reference country  Bu t as n o ted by 16], E A  h a s n o t been a driv i ng force in the development of e-government in Denmark Different common infrastructure elements like common access management and a new infrastructure for business messages to the government \(e.g electronic invoices\ave been initiated outside the EA program in recent years. As a result, there are different perceptions of what NEA is and what it is not  4.2. Adoption of EA in Denmark    Quite many of our findings concentrated around the adoption process. Thus we sub-divided our findings into groups on organizational demand, the demand for EA, EA work in practice  4.2.1. Organizational demand for EA The strategic imperative for the Danish Prison Service to use EA was a vision to integrate everything IT-related. In Denmark all prisoners have an electronic prisoner record \(EPR\d all systems are to be integrated with the EPR at the core. Any kind of institution involved in the Danish Prison Service reads and writes in the EPR The only exception is in cooperation with the Police and the judiciary system which is still paper based This new integrated EPR-system for the Danish Prison System was developed as 10 smaller projects Nobody dared to start one giant project in 1999 tells the CIO Instead we started 10 smaller ones, so if one went wrong, it would not scorch us as much  The CIO from the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not overly concerned with EA We are extremely centralized and standardized and we have built our IT organization around this idea of centralization was his introductory remarks Our main problem is that we are so global; we need to have IT all the way to Afghanistan A second problem is to comply with the security commitments we have made to European Union and NATO partners he said In the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs the very centralized IT function is under some pressure to fulfill local needs without being too tight-fitting say the CIO. One way to achieve this is to avoid having an IT specialist as CIO. So the CIO is a career diplomat who spends 2-4 years as head of the IT function. As an example, the former CIO of the IT function is now working in Berlin as a diplomat at the Danish Embassy I think that gives us a focus on the needs that really are there instead of focusing on which IT solutions that are the smartest says the CIO The Directorate for Food, Fisheries and Agriculture oversees the development and production to the entire Danish food industry. The Directorate was created by merging many institutions in year 2000 Together with the merger came an incredible number of independent IT systems tells the IT Development Manager. Thus it was decided to build a totally new EA for the Directorate. This new architecture is based Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 on the idea of Service Oriented Architecture \(SOA Together with the Ministry of Finance a business case was drafted and the ambitions are high We are to harvest 15-25% savings by using SOA explains the IT Development Manager  4.2.2. The demand for EA To the question of why EA was chosen, the CIO from The Danish Prison Service mentions pressure from the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation as one reason, but also that the parliamentary climate in Denmark has changed over the last 10 years. Back then it was common practice to take weeks or even months to answer a question raised in parliament. Nowadays the same question requires an answer within one week and the numbers of questions are tenfold. Thus one integrated system is absolutely necessary to answer many questions fast enough In the Directorate for Food, Fisheries and Agriculture it is pressure for savings from the Ministry of Finance that is mentioned as the first and foremost reason for investing in new architecture It has been calculated that 17 million DKK can be saved said the IT development Manager. But also the expectations from government were mentioned as a driver by the directorate s chief architect: The government s constant promises about massive online services, 24hour case handling and so forth were a driver  According to the understanding of the CIO from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there is also a competitive element Denmark participates in many international assemblies and organizations; the country that is best informed and has the latest information is the country that obtains the most Thus there is pressure for new IT systems that can deliver quick and updated information Group pressure also takes place at the national level If one head of a department takes up a new gadget \(here the CIO waves an I-phone in the air to illustrate\ring a meeting, then another head may go home and ask: why don t we have that And one of the architects noted that Based on conferences [about EA w h ite papers an d gurus within the [EA f i e l d we drafted our own EA program  A common problem was to get the business involved in discussions about IT. The CIO from the Danish Prison Service believes alignment of IT and business is more important than architecture It is still not natural for the other managers to think IT And many of the chief architects were frustrated that they could not get the business people in their organizations interested in EA. As the chief architect from the Directorate for Food, Fisheries and Agriculture phrased it We need to go back to the business. It is the business that needs to setup the guidelines for what we [IT T h at is s o m e h o w  al w a y s t h e s a m e  problem  It seems that to make a new trend successful, a combination of positive and negative incentives  carrot and whip - are needed Five years ago the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation was without any influence say the CIO from the Danish Prison Service But the Digital Taskforce [in the Ministry of Finance ha s m a d e a d i ffe r e nc e  when the person with the whip takes control then it helps Before, it was just the carrot In fact the person with the whip is the Minister of Finance who controls all the financial flows. The view that this Minister made a difference is confirmed by the CIO from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Why architecture is on the agenda  ink it is a c o m b i n atio n of  state m e n t s  from the Ministry of Science and Ministry of Finance as well as the result of having consultants who also catch new signals she says Another thing that is pointed out is that the discussion of EA sometimes is a little academic. The CIO from the Foreign Ministry tells it this way We don t have the resources for high availability, a high SLA [Service Level Agreement\d the more academic [business architectur w h e n  y o u hear and read what they say [on Enterprise Architectur r o m Gart n e r a nd th e Minis t r y of Scie n c e  you think that it cannot be true; it is just not possible with the resources we have   4.2.3. EA work in practice When we asked about EA in the practical management of information systems the IT Development Manager from the Directorate for Food, Fisheries and Agriculture tells us that she sees it as kind of old wine on new bottles  Some new words have come into play. But for many years I have heard that we should centralize and integrate she said So in that sense EA brings nothing new to the table 10 years ago we developed a common interface to four systems. Off course we could do that then. But what may be new is to break down your business into some logical blocks she said An interesting finding in the focus group interviews with the chief architects was the confusion about the EA concept. While we had expected some confusion about the concept with the CIO s, we were surprised how different the architects described and perceived EA - not to mention the way they applied the concept Two of the chief architects had mapped all the entities within their domain as a starting point for a better Enterprise Architecture It has been our thinking in this architectural work that everybody should be able to take a starting point in the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


 standardized information architecture and data told the chief architect from the Ministry of Agriculture Fisheries and Food. In this ministry they had detailed the entity map more and more all the way down to batch numbers for a single product from a specific producer In the Public Unit responsible for coherent digital healthcare in Denmark they were in the middle of the same kind of mapping. They had started trying to cope with registration of medicine in a unified way. The architect told that they aimed for one common medicine card for every citizen. The challenge being that every single system that uses medicine should have an interface to the card Another example that was brought up was from the Danish Maritime Authority. Here there was a large and well functioning system which all stakeholders were quite happy with. The chief architect s problem was that the IT-systems w a s a black box f o r ev er y bod y  in our organization also for the IT-department The system was running on old technology so it was destined to become obsolete So we had to dig it all up again That is really the driver today that we wanted to have an architectural overview the chief architect The Enterprise architect focus group was in agreement about the importance of different levels of architecture You need to have the architecture go from strategy to the operational as one of the architects expressed it However, the group also agreed that interoperability issues were most important for them. All of them spend the majority of their time looking at interrelationships of different applications, modeling and exchanging data. Going from strategy to the operational was seen as necessary, but none of the interviewees seemed to have a crystal clear understanding of this link between business and IT The business oriented approach that e.g. Garner promotes above was not something that the chief architects nor the CIO s were overly concerned with. It was clear that they did not see the major benefits in a business architecture that is more concerned with the business context than the structure of applications and data The CIO from Ministry of Foreign Affairs sees EA as a natural continuation of planning thinking  But something has changed he continues Today it is much more natural to involve IT from the beginning of a project. It is becoming natural to relate to the enterprise architecture we have  Another issue that was discussed in the focus group was how to implement EA so that people understand it We have tried to visualize our IT strategy. We have a number of small movie sequences [multimedia pod at can  sh o w  fu n c tio n a lit y told the CIO from the Danish Prison Service It needs to come from the top adds the CIO from the DMFA When the Director sends the first email, then the head of Department is forced to answer it doesn t help that an employee starts sending emails to the Head of Department; then nothing happens Later in the focus group discussion one Enterprise architect from a different organization confessed the major challenge is involving top management  At the end of our focus groups we discussed the how the public sector context influenced EA adoption and return on investment of EA. There was agreement around the table that the public sector was special in some ways. One thing mentioned was that not only profit was the goal. There were many criteria for good performance. Another thing mentioned was the high visibility The special thing about the public sector is that any failure gets trumpeted in the press said one CIO, and all agreed that the private sector could attract better people because they could give higher salaries Provoking a discussion with the chief architects about the business case especially the expected advantages it was interesting to see that none of the participants would stand up and claim the advantages to be fulfilled It may take 10 years to pay back as one Enterprise architect said. Another one emphasized that cooperation with users of the architectural standard was extremely important There is a need for someone testing it and giving you feedback as it was said  5  Discussion  Grounded in our empirical data and Abrahamson's theoretical framework, our analysis indicates that EA in government is to a large extend driven by fashion Interviews with the former public servant \(and now EA guru nd the Gartner director, indicate that EA was "chosen" as the appropriate tool to strengthen MSTI s influence on the e-government agenda. After publishing the EA white paper in 2003, the concept enjoyed almost instant fame and attracted tremendous managerial attention in the central government of Denmark, which in turn generated a transitory collective belief that EA was efficient, and at the forefront of best practice in IS planning The MSTI was successful in promoting technical interoperability challenges as so-called performance gaps  the difference between the performance level e-government managers aspire to and the level they actually achieve. EA was new and promised improving executive decisions and resource management Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 Governments produce White Papers, statements and booklets that provide best practice advice However, promotional documents do rarely give us a full and balanced picture of what is happening on the ground like any other public management reform [6   As our focus group interviews reveal EA is not very well understood in the central government of Denmark, and nothing indicates that it is generating administrative reforms in government that would replace traditional hierarchies with leaner structures Our analysis suggests that many of the local EA initiatives are partly initiated because of pressures of symbolic meanings \(social legitimacy\nd pressures to conform to commonly adopted target objectives such as efficiency and productivity gains of using EA planning. Backed by the promises of private and public success stories, we could say that MSTI supplied the EA fashion to the agencies in the Danish central government The CIO s and chief architects in our focus groups performed EA as a technical exercise that focuses on the interrelationships of different applications modeling and exchanging data and not so much the linking of business and IT. EA is perceived as something technical and administrative transformation is therefore not driven by EA planning in itself Our findings thus suggest an interesting distinction between two elements to EA in government: a stable element of IT-architecture and a fashion driven business architecture element. The two concepts are used in parallel, but they also have distinct differences in their focus, approach and use of artifacts. Table 3 describes these two seemingly different aspects of EA Our focus group participants were all comfortable when we discussed application integration, modeling and data exchange the IT-architecture. But, when we talked about the more high-level issues of applications and data in a business architecture context they were more skeptical. The external view of software that business architecture takes - focusing on business efficiencies and process transformation and not so much on the internal workings of applications - was not perused explicitly by any of our respondents. As one chief architect put it business architecture is something that we need to have to do EA, but we don t really do it today    Table 3: IT-architecture and business architecture IT Architecture Business architecture Focus Application interaction and systems development Business efficiencies and process transformation  Approach Documentation and analysis Business process management and change management Artifacts Logical and physical data models Technical standards, etc Business process diagrams investment business cases, etc  IT-architecture has its roots in the established software engineering discipline h ile bu sin e s s  architecture is a more recent phenomena  streams take a top-down approach to design interested in the interplay between different parts that form a whole. But, their artifacts and general purpose is different. IT-architecture can be viewed as the technical documentation and description necessary for traditional IS planning. While business architecture hosts the transformative element in EA the focus on business process management and change management that promises the modernization of government institutions Thus, EA has not been able to substitute the preexisting organizational IS-governance structures in the public agencies we studied. Institutionalized habits and values reinforce existing administrative and political arrangements, and pre-existing organizational structures for traditional IS planning seem to oppose the logics of EA planning As noted by op m a nag e rs i n  g o v e r n m e n t  agencies are rarely interested in organizational change and the EA planning innovation thus gets adopted to underpin the existing organizational structures. Thus our findings suggest, that it is unlikely that the development in the public sector IS planning will resemble the development in the private sector. Public sector planning is simply qualitatively different from planning in private enterprises or industries. As noted by ning re f o r m s ca n be driv e n b y dra m a t i c  higher profits, promotions, stock price increases, and market shares in the private sector, while this can be a showstopper in the public sector where effective IS planning most often will be rewarded with budget cuts staff reductions and loss of resources Finally, an interesting finding was also the confusing mandate of EA in the Danish government The governance setup gives the MSTI no power to force EA use. What really changes the way IS planning is performed in government is institutional change at the macro-level. The MSTI push for EA only caused Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


 incremental changes to the IS planning efforts in government entities. It was the External shocks  created by the Ministry of Financed that catalyzed the diffusion process \(cf. section 4.2\ in the Danish central government was supposed to guide administrative reforms, guide executive decisions, and improve recourse management. But, the transformation was a response to institutional change at the macrolevel, rather than the particular new template for IS planning in the organizations that we studied  6  Conclusion  Summing up our analysis and discussion, we found the causal direction reversed from EA being transformative and prescriptive in its nature to EA being reshaped and adopted in step with the institutional forces in public organizations and their macro environment As we have seen, IS planning innovations can change routines, structures and social values in government, but it must be understood in the context of the institutional forces that often resist dramatic changes. Public sector reforms will always be driven by political determination, while IS planning can be the enabling tool As for our research question on the purpose of EA and what has driven the use and adoption, our analysis indeed suggests that EA in government to a large extend is characterized by fashions. The EA concept is ambiguous and lacks commonly accepted definitions Our focus group interviews revealed two elements to EA in government: a stable element of it-architecture and a fashion driven business architecture element. As we have seen it seems that the formation and adoption of EA in government is driven by compliance with central guidelines and imitation of best practice  The hyperbole surrounding government modernization and transformation thought the adoption of EA planning seem to be epochal. An epochal schema of old style bureaucratic IS planning and the new EA planning agenda has considerable intuitive appeal. But our findings illustrate how individual circumstances cannot just be considered invisible or rendered insignificant. Organizational context imitation and compliance explain adoption patterns better than a universal and invariable recipe of management procedures and techniques like EA. Thus our conclusion is that EA can not transform government by itself.  Fundamental transformation to the tasks performed in organizations is only achieved if the institutional force promotes transformation  6.1. The future of EA in government  The limitation of fashion theory is its weak explanatory power. Using Abrahamson s theory [20 21  w e c a n no t  sa y ho w  l o n g a fa sh i o n l i ke E A  w i l l  stay fashionable in government or even how long it will take to become unfashionable again However, by emphasizing how EA adoption and use is not produced solely by the aggregation of individual and organizational reform agendas but by institutions that structure action, the institutional perspective offers a vantage point for understanding EA planning in government. Our findings points out how EA is not a clear-cut cure that can be adopted by any public organization with similar results. EA implementation must be understood in the organizational context it is implemented in Working with many different stakeholders, both leadership and subject matter experts, to build a holistic view of the organization's strategy, processes information, and technology assets must not be underestimated in government EA programs. Public servants and their consultants must understand the business of government and the business of their own organizations before they engage in EA To be more than just another fashion fad, future EA programs in government must provide a comprehensive and coherent view across business information, and technology; not just to guide the design of IT systems but to deliver business change supported and enabled by IT  References  1  OECD \(2005 OECD Peer Review of e-Government in Denmark www.oecd.org, last accessed June 2008    2  Hite, R. \(2003 Information Technology: A framework for assessing and improving enterprise architecture management Version 1.1\. Washington D.C.: U.S. General Accounting Office 3  Ross, J. \(2003 Creating a strategic IT architecture competency: Learning in stages MISQ Executive, 2 1 4  Peristera V., Tarabanis K. \(2000 Towards an enterprise architecture for public administration using a top-down approach European Journal of Information Systems, 9 \(4\: 252-260 5  Segars, A.H., Grover, V. \(1999 Profiles of Strategic Information Systems Planning In: Information Systems Research, 10 \(3\: 199-232 6  Pollitt, C. & Bouckaert, G. \(2004 Public Management Reform Oxford University Press 7  Zachman, J. A. \(1987 A Framework for Information Systems Architecture IBM Systems Journal, 26 83 276-292 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 8  Bernard, S.B. \(2005 An introduction to Enterprise Architecture Authorhouse 9  Spewak, Steven H. \(1992 Enterprise Architecture Planning John Wiley & Sons, Inc, New York 10  Sowa, J.F. & Zachman, J.A. \(1992 Extending and formalizing the framework for information systems architecture IBM Systems Journal, 31 \(3\ 590-616 11  Kaisler, S.H., Armour, F. & Valivullah, M Enterprise Architecting: Critical problems Proceedings of the 38th Hawaii International Conference on System sciences 12  Hjort-Madsen, K. \(2007 Institutional Patterns of Enterprise Architecture Adoption in Government  Transforming Government: People, Process and Policy 1: 4 13  Dunleavy, P. & Hood, C. \(1994 From Old Public Administration to New Public Management Public Money & Management 14  Hood, C. \(1998 The Art of the State Clarendon Press, Oxford 15  Hjort-Madsen, K. \(2006 Enterprise Architecture Implementation and Management: A Case Study On Interoperability Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2006 16  Janssen, M. & Hjort-Madsen, K. \(2007 Analyzing Enterprise Architecture in National Governments: The Case of Denmark and The Netherlands 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 17  Jones, M.R. \(1994\Don't Emancipate, Exaggerate Rhetoric, Reality and Reengineering," in: Transforming Organizations with Information Technology, NorthHolland, Amsterdam 18  Westrup, C. \(2003\. "Discourse, management fashions and ERP systems," in: Global and Organizational Discourse about Information Technology, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Norwell, Mass 19  Gregor, S., and Jones, D. \(2007\. "The Anatomy of a Design Theory," Journal of the Association for Information Systems, Vol. 8 \(2007\9 20  Abrahamson, E. \(1991\Managerial fads and fashions The diffusion and rejection of innovations". Academy of Management Review \(16:3 21  Abrahamson, E. \(1996\Management fashion". The Academy of Management Review \(21:1 22  Miller, D. & Hartwick, J. \(2002\Spotting Management Fads". Harvard Business Review \(80:10 23  Meyer, J.W. & Rowan, B. \(1977 Institutionalized Organizations: Formal Structure as Myth and Ceremony American Journal of Sociology, 83 \(1977 340-363 24  DiMaggio, P. & Powel \(1991 The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis University of Chicago Press 25  Rogers, E. M. \(1995 Diffusion of Innovations  4thed. New York: Free Press 26  Fountain, J. E. \(2002 Information, Institutions and Governance Cambridge, John F. Kennedy School of Government: Harvard University 27  Scholl, H.J. \(2005 E-Government-Induced Business Process Change \(BPC\ An Empirical Study of Current Practices International Journal of Electronic Government Research, 1\(2 28  Kraemer, K. & King,l J. L. \(2006 Information Technology and Administrative Reform: Will EGovernment Be Different International Journal of Electronic Government Research, Vol. 2\(1 29  Grˆnlund, A. \(2005 State of the Art in E-Gov Research: Surveying Conference Publications  International Journal of Electronic Government Research, 1\(4 30  Kling, R., & Iacono, 0. S. \(1988 The Institutional Character of Computerized Information Systems  Office: Technology and People 5\(1 31  Yin, R. K. \(1994 Case Study Research Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage 32  Fern, E. \(2001 Advanced Focus Group Research  Sage Publications 33  Miles, M. B. and A. M. Huberman \(1994 Qualitative Data Analysis: An Expanded Sourcebook 2 nd Edition Newbury Park, CA, Sage 34  Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation \(2003 Whitepaper on Enterprise Architecture Web \(In Danish: http://www.itst.dk/arkitektur-ogstandarder/publikationer/arkitekturpublikationer/hvidbo g-om-it-arkitektur, last accessed September 2008   35  Plfeeger, S.L. \(2001 Software Engineering: Theory and Practice Prentice-Hall, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11  Figure 16 \226 The loss of spat ial resolution for errors in p    The spatial distribution of th e reconstructed images is illustrated in Figure 17 for p 0.5\260 and 400nm, 425nm and 450nm As expected, the larger dispersion at the shorter wavelengths will cause a larger shif t error.  In fact, as shown in Fig. 17 the error radius can become so large that we again see donuts as point response functions in the reconstruction Final Comments Specific systematic sources of error have been presented in this section independently Obviously it is a combination these errors that will propaga te through the transform to give the final result in terms of resolution and displacement in the reconstructed hyperspectral data set.  The contribution of each systematic error source in terms of the derived r   p  or  x\222 y\222 representation can be used to create an error kernel for each given in Equations 10 and 11 multiplied in series in Fourier space or convolved in series in the spatial domain to evaluate the cumulative effect  3  C OMPARISON TO M EASUREMENTS  The effect and sensitivity of th e selected systematic errors have been shown given the mathematical models for projection and reconstruction.  Data taken from the AFIT CTI instrument will be examined to determine how well the model is capturing the modeled impact of the systematic error with controlled in strumental inaccuracies Data Collection and Analysis An effective point source will be the target for the system and is represented by a 300 m pinhole at the object plane illuminated by a combination of an Hg pen lamp and red laser pointer.  This provid es 5 clear lines at 404.7nm 435.8nm, 546nm, 577.5nm, and 635nm 5 with the first four being from the pen lamp.   Care is taken here to not suggest that this is a true validation of the model, as it is impossible to completely isolate the effect of a single source of error Furthermore, the instrument was not designed with the exact measurement of quan tities such as detector tilt or prism alignment in mind, so these qu antities have to be measured indirectly. An attempt is made to make the particular error in question gross enough to be the overwhelming contributor and variation du e to possible inaccuracy in measurement is included in the model For each instance of induced systematic error in the instrument, projections will be taken at p 0\260-345 1 5 260 increments to provide a total of 23 projections.  This data will not be reconstructed usin g the SAA algorithm as that will serve to compound the contribution of unaccounted error.  Instead, a direct comparison to the derived r   p  will be made in each case.  In assessing the model vs performance, trends in this da ta will be consid ered in favor of absolute difference.  The measurements made address effect of detector tilt and di stance error, accuracy of the dependence of p   on I and error from prism misalignment.  For the this co llected data, a correction will be made to better calibrate the system to the actual p   to avoid the spectral shift in the data Variation in Detector Array Tilt and Distance To measure the affect that til t has on the collected data, the PIMAX camera was slightly ro tated from its position to create an angle between the detector array and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Figure 6.  Because the camera was rotated about its mount point, which is displaced from detector by 70 mm, the rotation angle also  5 The 577.5 line is the average of the Hg doublet that appears here and not clearly resolved by the instrument nm Spatial Res. \(pixels 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 p = 0.10\260 p = 0.25\260 p = 0.50\260  Figure 17 \226 The 400 nm, 425 nm, and 450 nm spatial functions for p 0.5\260.  With greater dispersion, the error most affects the shorter waveleng ths as indicated in Figure 16  


  12 moves the array toward L3 providing some amount of variable d across the array.  Swiveling the camera also rotates the array away from th e image plane, so there is a hard limit on the  that can be imparted before the spectrum is off of the array  The camera is turned 4\260 in the +x-direction x 4\260\nd tilted upward y 2\260\.  The camera was moved toward L 3  by 2mm d 2mm corporating the variable distance imparted by the camera sw ivel.  It is estimated that the tilt angle of the camera can be measured to +/- 0.25\260 and that the error in from both components\within 0.5mm.  These measurement er ror estimations will be used in the model to determine a maximum and minimum range of model results.  Equation 13 will be used to calculate r   p  the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle.  For the 404.7nm source, the image was projected off of the array at p 140\260 - 200\260 thus the gap in data.  The results are shown in Figs. 18-22   Figure 18 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 19\226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 20 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 21 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 22 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 635nm spectral line   The data imply that the overall mean value of r   p  is being captured which represents the contribution of The shapes of the curves appear to match somewhat for the 404nm and 435nm cases, but the correlation for the other three wavelengths is not as cl ose.  For these wavelengths the variation in r   p  as a function of p is very small possibly due to other uncontrolled error.  Also, for these and all spatial location measurements, there is inherent quantization error in determinin g the center of the Gaussian fit function due to the phasing of the samples on the array 6  Change in p  as a Function of I  A major impact on the reconstr uction algorithm is the error in estimation of the prism dispersion angle p   due to the difference in assumed and true values of the incident angle to the prism I This drives the observed error as a result of prism misalignment, as well as the correction needed in the reconstruction to account for fiel d angle.  Here, the explicit dependence of r  on I will first be examined, then the effect of prism misalignment on I   A sample of the spectrum with the object on th e optical axis  I 0\260\n to provide a baseline displacement r for each of the 5 wavelengths in the object.  The prism mount is then successively tilted to vary I   At each step, the magnitude of I  is found by pointing a laser along the optic axis through a small aperture also centered on the optic axis The I 0\260 position is identified wh en the reflection of the laser is exactly back th rough the aperture.  At I 0\260, the laser will be reflected at an angle equal to I and will hit the  6 The system is undersampled, so that changes of less than \275  pixel in location are not reliably measured 


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





