html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">  1 Next Generation Autonomous Lunar Geophysical Experiment Package Melissa A. Jones, Linda Herrell, W. Bruce Banerdt, David Hansen, Robert Miyake Steve Kondos, Paul Timmerman, and Vincent Randolph Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA  91109 818-393-3110 melissa.a.jones@jpl.nasa.gov linda.m.herrell@jpl.nasa.gov bruce.banerdt@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract  Geophysical exploration of the interior structure and processes of the Moon has been a high scientific priority dating back to the Apollo days and still remains a high priority even today. The Apollo Lunar Surface Experiments Package \(ALSEP era played an important role in extending knowledge of the Moon  s history through seismic, magnetic, and geothermal measurements. In this concept study, a contemporary equivalent of ALSEP was investigated. Autonomous Lunar Geophysical Experiment Package \(ALGEP instruments similar to ALSEP but has taken advantage of thirty years of technology advances, allowing for development of instruments with increased sensitivity and reduced size and power requirements. Solar powered modular platforms were designed with each instrument equipped with its own miniaturized power, telecom command and data handling, and thermal subsystems allowing for nighttime data collection. A base station would provide communication with the Earth. The instruments could be deployed long distances from one another and would be essentially wireless, decreasing deployment complexity and risk. 1 2  TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION.................................................................1 2. ALGEP SCIENCE .............................................................2 3. A CONTEMPORARY LUNAR GEOPHYSICAL PACKAGE....3 4. ALGEP INSTRUMENT SUITE ...........................................6 5. DESIGN ASSUMPTIONS AND DRIVERS ..............................6 6. ALGEP ARCHITECTURE .................................................8 7. SUBSYSTEM DESCRIPTIONS ...........................................10 8. SYSTEM SUMMARY.........................................................14 9. OPERATIONAL SCENARIOS ............................................15 10. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS.....................................16 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS ......................................................16 REFERENCES ......................................................................16 BIOGRAPHY ........................................................................16 1 1978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1159, Version 1, Updated January 7, 2008 1. INTRODUCTION The geophysical exploration of the Moon, particularly its interior structure and processes, has been recognized as a high scientific priority from the time of the Apollo project planning to the present \(see, e.g., The Scientific Context for the Exploration of the Moon  Experiments Package \(ALSEP 14-17 missions played an important role in extending knowledge of the Moon  s history through seismic magnetic, and geothermal measurements during the period of 1969-1972 [2-8]. Along with lunar sample analyses these data, now nearly 40 years old, still largely define our knowledge of the Moon beneath its visible surface. By modern standards, however, this information is quite limited due both to the technology of the instrumentation available at the time and by the limited geographic extent of the Apollo landing sites. These factors provide sound rationale 


Apollo landing sites. These factors provide sound rationale for consideration of a next-generation effort to augment ALSEP data  ALSEP Background The Apollo-era Geophysical Packages included various versions of the following geophysical instruments: Active Seismic Experiment \(ASE PSE LSM Experiment \(HFE LRRR  hub and spoke  configuration with the central unit or station located in the hub position. The central unit contained the command and data handling and telecom subsystems and the instruments were deployed consistent with science requirements and connected through power and data lines as shown in Figure 1. The exception is the LRRR which did not require connection to the central unit. Power was supplied by a radioisotope thermoelectric generator \(RTG providing power for continuous night operation amounting to ~14 days in equatorial regions. Data was transmitted to the Earth continuously as the package had no data storage capability. Despite the one year design life of these instruments, many of the packages continued to acquire data 2 for eight years until operations were terminated in 1977 [7 The exception is LRRR, which is still in operation today 2. ALGEP SCIENCE Geophysical analyses typically utilize distributed data collected over the surface of a planet to determine such properties as composition, density and temperature of the materials located in its inaccessible depths. ALGEP provides a core set of geophysical measurements for the Moon: seismology, magnetic field induction, heat flow and precision tracking Seismology Although the Apollo seismic experiments were highly successful and provided more information about the Moon than was anticipated, there remain several important unanswered questions. 1 almost no reliable information on seismic velocities below a depth of ~800 km. What are the physical properties of the very deep interior of the Moon, in particular the lower mantle and core? Is there compositional layering in the lower mantle? What is the size, state and composition of the core? 2 structures vary from one region to another? Is there any correlation with surface compositional heterogeneity \(e.g PKT, the Procellarum KREEP Terrane moonquakes: What is the true mechanism of deep moonquakes? How are they distributed globally \(we only have data for the front side mean in terms of the lower mantle structure? 4 moonquakes: What causes shallow moonquakes? How deep are they? Do they pose any risk to future lunar bases These questions could all be addressed by the type of improved seismic measurements that would be made possible by ALGEP Magnetic induction As the NRC Decadal Survey [9] notes, one of the most important issues not yet addressable by the available lunar data concerns the uncertainty in the bulk composition of the Moon. Models of the impact generation of the Moon by the collision of a Mars size object with the Earth could be further constrained if the bulk composition of the Moon were known more precisely. Further in situ sampling of the rocks from the lunar surface would help improve estimates of the bulk composition of the Moon, but a lack of sampling of the rocks from the deep interior thwarts efforts to fully characterize the bulk composition of the Moon. Magnetic induction, together with seismology, provides a means of 


induction, together with seismology, provides a means of identifying materials deep within the Moon. The physical properties affecting seismic velocity \(density and elastic constants electromagnetic response of a rock \(resistivity and magnetic permeability data that can be compared with laboratory measurements of the properties of candidate rocks and minerals Another high-priority question in lunar science concerns the sizes and the compositions of the lunar mantle and core which are poorly known. The reason for the poor knowledge of the interior of the Moon is a general lack of reliable long-term simultaneous time series of the magnetic field from multiple sites on the Moon. Even though the three Apollo magnetometers were often operated simultaneously, no extended simultaneous time series of the magnetic field is available because of telemetry and other infrastructural constraints Heat flow Reliable heat flow data from the Moon, both globally and locally, would provide important input into four basic questions. 1 mechanical structure of the Moon? 2 compare to the Earth and chondritic meteorites in its bulk content of the heat producing elements \(U, Th, K the Moon is significantly different, does this difference have implications for the origin of the Moon? 3 regional variations in heat flow on the Moon associated with the major geological provinces, and do these variations record asymmetrical thermal evolution and chemical fractionation of the incompatible elements into the lunar crust? 4 heat flow be used as a baseline to measure variations in external solar radiation at the Earth  s orbital location  Figure 1  Schematic of the ALSEP hub and spoke configuration \(not to scale 16 special publications [2] [6 3 Precision tracking More than three decades of lunar laser ranging have provided insight into the deep interior structure of the Moon through measurement of minute variations in lunar rotation Improved laser retroreflectors and a wider distribution of ranging locations \(both in latitude and longitude serve to further refine such parameters as core size and density, mantle layering, and the presence of liquid in the deep interior \(e.g., a molten core or partial melting in the mantle Science Traceability Matrix The science traceability matrix, shown in Table 1, for ALGEP closely follows the International Lunar Network ILN  traceability to the Scientific Context for Exploration of the Moon \(SCEM  of Table 1. The ALGEP science team3 was integrally involved in developing science requirements and the overall package design. To this end, ALGEP has been specifically designed to respond to science objectives, measurement requirements and mission requirements outlined by the ILN Science Definition Team \(SDT design drivers and programmatic drivers discussed in the following sections 3. A CONTEMPORARY LUNAR GEOPHYSICAL PACKAGE In this study, we investigate a modern-day equivalent of ALSEP. The Autonomous Lunar Geophysical Experiment Package would contain similar instruments to ALSEP including: a very-broad-band seismometer, a shallow seismic sounder, a magnetometer, a heat flow probe and a laser retroreflector. However, a number of improvements 


laser retroreflector. However, a number of improvements over ALSEP are desired including  Increased quality of science data such as improved sensitivity, resolution, signal-to-noise, etc of instruments \(science requirement  Design life of six years or longer instead of one year \(science requirement  Simplified operations using store-and-forward telemetry architecture instead of continuous downlink \(design driver  No nuclear materials used for power or thermal stability \(programmatic driver  Increase portability and ease of deployment by minimizing cabling and package mass and volume programmatic driver  Increase astronaut safety by eliminating trip 3 3ALGEP science team members: Bruce Banerdt \(PI   Co-PI Mark Moldwin, Paul Morgan, Clive Neal, Chris Russell, Jerry Schubert Veronique Dehant, Catherine Johnson, J  rgen Oberst, Tom Pike, Tilman Spohn, Mark Wieczorek, Yosio Nakamura, Talso Chui, Ho-Jung Paik Michael Manga hazards and nuclear material handling programmatic driver  Increased Quality of Science Data Thirty years of technology development on these instruments has increased sensitivity while reducing required power and size of the sensors and accompanying accessories. This miniaturization, reduced power requirement and increase capability also applies to all of the hub and remote unit subsystems but in particular telecom command and data handling, power Six Year Design Life The package will be designed to last approximately six years which is a mission requirement for seismic measurements in science objective 1 in Table 1. This allows for the ability to use multiple sequentially deployed packages as a geophysical network, which greatly increases the value of the science return. All of the instruments are not required to last six years but ALGEP as a package is designed to do so to enhance the interchangeable modular design described in subsequent sections  Simplified Operations On-board memory will be used to store instrument generated data. This data will be forwarded from the remote instrument unit and collected at the hub station. The hub would downlink the data direct-to-Earth at designated times eliminating the need for continuous downlink  No Nuclear Materials An approximately five-fold increase in solar cell efficiency and overall reduced power requirements at the system level allow for the re-evaluation of the trade between solar arrays and nuclear power sources. Due to increased complexity uncertainties in availability, and astronaut safety, solar arrays were baselined for ALGEP. The package would be designed to accommodate conditions over a large range of locations on the lunar surface \(far side excluded unless an orbital asset is in place for communication arrays. The arrays and batteries would be sized to allow for night operations of the science instruments, even in equatorial regions where night can last approximately two weeks, but constrained in size to allow for relatively easy deployment 4  Table 1.  ALGEP science traceability matrix as derived from the ILN Measurement Matrix [10 Science Objectives Science Investigations Measurement Requirements 


Science Objectives Science Investigations Measurement Requirements Mission Requirements Instrument Requirements 1. Understand the current seismic state and determine the internal structure of the Moon 2a. Determine the thickness of the lunar crust upper and lower characterize its lateral variability on regional and global scales  2b. Characterize the chemical/physical stratification in the mantle particularly the nature of the putative 500 km discontinuity and the composition of the lower mantle  2c. Determine the size composition, and state solid/liquid of the Moon  3a. Determine the extent and composition of the primary feldspathic crust KREEP layer, and other products of planetary differentiation Measure lunar seismicity over the frequency range 1 mHz 20 Hz at multiple geometrically dispersed locations 4 simultaneously operating nodes  Continuous operation for 1 lunar tidal cycle 6 years  Inter-station timing accuracy ~5 msec  Instrument attached to ground; vibrationally isolated from activity  Thermally isolate ground to ~1 m radius Three-axis Very Broad Band seismometers  Dynamic range of ~ 24 bits  For 1.0 &lt;f &lt; 20 Hz PSD ? 10-9f2 m/s2/Hz1/2  For 0.1&lt; f &lt; 1.0 Hz 


PSD ? 10-10f m/s2/Hz1/2  For 0.001 &lt; f &lt; 0.1 Hz PSD ? 2  10-11.5/f1/2 m/s2/Hz1/2 2. Measure the interior lunar heat flow to characterize the temperature structure of the lunar interior 2d. Characterize the thermal state of the interior and elucidate the workings of the planetary heat engine  3a. Determine the extent and composition of the primary feldspathic crust KREEP layer, and other products of planetary differentiation Determine thermal conductivity by in situ heating at multiple depths  Determine the thermal gradient via long-term monitoring at multiple depths at each location Temperature sensor array must extend to at least 3 m depth  Thermal conductivity measurements require good contact with the regolith  Minimize thermal effects of the remote unit  Placed 200-300 km from major terrain boundaries  Continuous operation for 2 years Record thermal conductivity for ?1 lunar day  Continuous monitoring T measurement every 6-12 hours  Temperature sensor precision: 0.05-0.001 K  Minimum 9 thermal conductivity and temperature locations  Sensors spaced 30 cm from each other 5 


5 Science Objectives Science Investigations Measurement Requirements Mission Requirements Instrument Requirements 3. Use electromagnetic sounding to measure the electrical conductivity structure of the lunar interior 2a. Determine the thickness of the lunar crust upper and lower characterize its lateral variability on regional and global scales  2b. Characterize the chemical/physical stratification in the mantle particularly the nature of the putative 500 km discontinuity and the composition of the lower mantle  2c. Determine the size composition, and state solid/liquid of the Moon  2d. Characterize the thermal state of the interior and elucidate the workings of the planetary heat engine Measure ambient and magnetic fields at each station  Quantify contribution to electromagnetic measurements by local plasma field Continuous operation for 1 year  Magnetometers must be at least 2m away from spacecraft  Magnetometers deployed in orthogonal directions  DC to 100 Hz  2 x 3-component magnetometers \(10 pT/Hz1/2   4. Increase ability to determine deep lunar structure and conduct test of gravitational physics by installing next generation laser 


next generation laser ranging capability 2b. Characterize the chemical/physical stratification in the mantle particularly the nature of the putative 500 km discontinuity and the composition of the lower mantle  2c. Determine the size composition, and state solid/liquid of the Moon lt;2 cm range accuracy Station separation gt;90? in latitude and/or longitude  Only required on the near side  5. Determine the structure of the uppermost part of the lunar regolith Measure the mechanical properties \(e.g., density compressibility, shear modulus, bearing strength with depth in the upper few meters of the regolith Use an active seismic source to excite elastic waves wavelength less than a few 10s of cm  Measure arrival times of direct reflected and refracted rays at multiple distances along a profile of length 5X the maximum depth of interest Deploy seismic sensors \(on spikes, for high-frequency ground coupling profile of length 10-50 m  Repeated \(100s to 1000s seismic source to produce stackable time series for SNR enhancement Three-axis sensors dynamic range of ~24 bits, sensitivity of 10-8m/s2 from 10-200 Hz Numbering in this column denotes traceability to the Scientific Context for Exploration  of the Moon \(SCEM  


 6 Increased Ease of Deployment &amp; Astronaut Safety Technology enhancements provide the option of using modular platforms. Each instrument would be outfitted with its own miniaturized central unit containing power, telecom to a base station subsystems. A base station would provide for overall control and communication with the Earth. The units would be modular in that each miniaturized subsystem module would be designed to accommodate the needs of any of the instruments in the ALGEP package \(Figure 2 and short connection would be required to provide power and data interfaces between the subsystems module and the instrument. This concept deviates from the hub and spoke concept \(Figure 1 would not be dependent on the length of the power or command and data handling lines that must connect each of the instruments to the central station as it was with ALSEP The instruments could be deployed long distances from each other and would be essentially wireless. Additionally it would not be necessary for astronauts to handle nuclear materials. This concept has the potential to decrease deployment complexity and risk and increases astronaut safety 4. ALGEP INSTRUMENT SUITE The instrument suite used to design ALGEP range from instruments in the early concept stages to those being developed for specific missions. Therefore, the instrument specifications presented in Table 2 represent the characteristics of the instruments as they are known today and would likely continue to be refined in the future 5. DESIGN ASSUMPTIONS AND DRIVERS Design Assumptions The design of the ALGEP package is based on a number of design assumptions that played a critical role in the outcome of the package design and capabilities. The following are the design assumptions  Figure 2  Conceptual design of a remote unit with instrument for ALGEP.  The hub is the same  except instruments are not attached and the S-band patch antenna is arranged on the end of one solar  array  7  Package operational lifetime is 6  2 years  Instruments would operate continuously if necessary over the lifetime of the package with the exception of the seismic sounder which would operate for two weeks during the daylight  Package will tolerate the lunar surface temperature range of -170  C to 125  C  Package will operate on solar arrays and battery in any location on the Moon \(essentially equatorial to polar regions with the worst-case assumed to be ~16 days, to be conservative, at equatorial locations  Package baseline design assumes no nuclear power  For ease of deployment and astronaut safety the package will be designed to be as wireless as possible  Direct-to-Earth communication will be through the Deep Space Network \(DSN  Science data latency is not a driver to allow for alternative operational scenarios that do not require continuous communication with ground stations as was needed for ALSEP  Each instrument will be required to buffer collected data for at least a one hour period Design Drivers There were three key design drivers that needed to be 


There were three key design drivers that needed to be considered when developing ALGEP Nighttime Operations  Operations during the lunar night is by far the strongest driver. The package must be able to collect data from its instruments during the lunar night which may be up to approximately two weeks long in the equatorial regions. The seismometer and magnetometer require continuous data collection during the lunar night although the seismometer can operated in a scientifically valuable lower data volume mode to reduce the memory size necessary in the command and data handling subsystem. The lunar nighttime temperature environment also drives the power and thermal subsystem design Seismology as Data Volume Driver  The passive seismometer is the data volume driver during nighttime operations. It accumulates ~240 Mb \(compressed hour period during the lunar day and ~2.4 Gb \(compressed of data during a 16 Earth day lunar night. The seismic sounder acquires ~0.7 Gb per measurement resulting in nearly 700 Mb of data per day on average.  It would be operational only during the lunar day as it is another data volume driving instrument. The ALGEP science team has determined that all the necessary science could be acquired in two weeks of lunar light lending itself to power each of the 6-12 necessary sensors with very small batteries keeping  Table 2.  Instrument characteristics used to constrain ALGEP design Instrument Required Operational Lifetime Mass Average Power Data Rate Duty Cycle Seismometer 6 years 4.5 kg 1.5 W 2  9 kbps mode dependent 100 lower sampling rate during night Magnetometer 6 years 0.655 kg Includes electronics &amp cabling 0.550 W 2.5 kbps 100 Heat Flow Probe 6 years 1.6 kg 5.7 W Conductivity experiments 2.2 W Temperature experiments 11 W Hammering emplacement 40 Mb data volume over life of experiment 5-8 After initial hammering emplacement, 5 min per hr for temperature measurements Laser Retroreflector 6 years 5 kg Passive, no power required Not applicable Not applicable Seismic Sounder 2 weeks 


2 weeks daylight only 4.5 kg Includes 6-12 sensors and seismic source 1.6 W Receiver Battery power for sensors not to be supplied 7200 kbps Few sec per measurement Several hundred measurements over first lunar day  8 the design simple \(other alternatives would likely be studied in the future Astronaut Safety  The last key driver in the design is astronaut safety and activity constrains. This driver played a role in package configuration and deployment methods Astronaut safety drove the design to a solar powered package and the conscious effort to make the package as wireless as possible. Additionally, in an effort to make the package as relatively easy to deploy as possible the design was driven to modular units 6. ALGEP ARCHITECTURE Modular Design Through consideration of the requirements and key design drivers a modular system was developed for ALGEP. Two types of modules were developed: the hub and the instrument remote units. The hub would be responsible for collection of all data from the instruments and direct-toEarth communication of the data.  The instrument remote unit would be independent of the hub and would provide power and data interfaces to each instrument \(i.e., each instrument requires a remote unit with the exception being the retroreflector remote units would be needed for each package. The remote units do not require any physical links with the hub as was the case for ALSEP. The remote units could be placed any distance from the hub as long as it is within line-of-sight of the hub and does not exceed 100 m which is currently a telecom subsystem design limitation \(Figure 3 unit was designed with worst-case instrument in mind for each subsystem so they are intended to be identical \(see  Figure 3  Example deployment scenario for the ALGEP remote units and hub on the lunar  surface. Each remote unit has an instrument connected to it through a data and power interface and could be deployed  up to ~100 m from the hub as long as line-of-sight is maintained.  The remote units and hub have their own  solar arrays and battery to generate and store power for night time operations.  The laser retroreflector is a  passive instrument and does not require power or data interfaces 9 Figure 4  Top, assembly procedure for a remote unit or hub.  Modular units were designed for  ease of assembly Bottom left, ALGEP Avionics Hub Assembly containing power, C&amp;DH, and telecom subsystems Section 7 Subsystem Descriptions for details the remote units to be fully interchangeable with any of the instruments currently part of the package. This configuration permits ease of deployment for the astronaut as they could select any instrument and connect the power and data interfaces to any remote unit. Additionally flexibility has been built into the design in that astronauts assuming that they are able to return to the location, could 


simply replace instruments and remote units if they fail or are in need of repair The hub has similar subsystems as the remote units \(Figure 4 accommodate the additional S-band radio to allow for communication with Earth and the additional data storage capacity to store all the instruments  collected data during the day and long duration night \(see Section 7 Subsystem Descriptions for details Solar and Battery Powered System The nuclear-free requirement for the package design calls for a solar powered system with a low-power operational mode for the long lunar nights that are approximately two weeks in equatorial regions. This low-powered mode must accommodate survival of the system as well as data collection and storage for instruments through the use of an appropriately sized battery.  To keep the power usage low during the night, communication from the remote units to the hub would only be during the daylight Assembly of Package With regard to astronaut safety and ease of deployment, the assembly procedure was kept as simple as possible. The package was constrained as much as possible to the smallest volume possible in order to keep the package manageable by a couple of astronauts and potentially be able to transport the package in one of the astronaut controlled vehicles being developed in the Constellation Program. The deployment takes six steps \(Figure 4 1 2 3 10 4 not shown in figure, not required for the hub 5 6 see power subsystem section and Figure 5 for discussion An additional step of ensuring that the S-band antenna is pointed at Earth would be required for the hub 7. SUBSYSTEM DESCRIPTIONS Power Subsystem Design Requirements  The ability to design a non-nuclear powered package drives the electrical power subsystem EPS Surviving the lunar environment, including the long cold night, is an extreme challenge for the EPS. A synergistic design with the thermal and command and data handling subsystems is required to achieve this challenging goal. The requirement to operate throughout the night necessitates a passive thermal design able to operate at ambient -170  C with an absolute minimum of electrical heater power, and a very low-power solution to nighttime data collection and storage. The same thermal design must protect the battery from destructive temperatures in the daytime ambient 125  C environment. A six year lifetime could only be met with a maximum battery daytime temperature not to exceed 35  C Operating at any latitude from the equator to the poles is another demanding challenge that effects the configuration of the solar array, and drives the mechanical design of the solar panels  Design Assumptions  The power subsystem would be able to use the same solar array, battery and power electronics design for both the hub and the remote instrument units The hub does not operate instruments, and therefore, worstcase power load on the remote instrument unit \(specifically the seismometer battery needed  Lack of a data latency requirement allows ALGEP to forego nighttime communications and preserves battery power for 


nighttime communications and preserves battery power for critical tasks. The direct-to-Earth communications downlink would only be operated at the hub near noon, when plentiful solar array power would be available, minimizing battery depth-of-discharge \(DOD communication pass lengths, which interacts favorably with selection of ground station dish size and operations costs  The sizing of the battery is the first step in the design process. Obtaining a suitably low nighttime average power would be required to keep battery size reasonable. As a rule of thumb, each Watt of nighttime load power required requires 1000 W-hr of battery capacity. A constraint was set to not support more than ~3 W of nighttime average load power over the worst-case 16 Earth days of darkness to keep the battery size manageable for stowing volume and deployment ease purposes. This allows for all combinations of latitude and season. This goal was exceeded through various innovations. The worst-case load \(seismometer plus controller instrument remote unit 16 days including 30% contingency. An additional 183 mW would be dissipated by instrument controller power conditioning unit \(PCU nighttime, for a battery sizing requirement of 2.38 W average  The solar array design is intended to be adjusted by the astronaut, as no single design without adjustment could meet the requirements imposed by an all-latitude design The ALGEP array design would be able to operate with panels oriented vertically for polar operations, horizontally for polar operations, or partially deployed \(e.g. 45  from Figure 5  ALGEP solar arrays can be deployed with varying angles to accommodate different  lunar latitudes 11 horizontal Figure 5 flexibility allows for the design process to precede landing site selection  Description of the Design  The battery delivers 934 W-hr based on the 2.38W continuous for 16 Earth days, \(384 hours was also made to be compliant with the battery cycling limitations in JPL  s Flight Project Practices and Design Principles. This increased the requirement to 1557 W-hr of energy storage. At 28.6 V, an eight-cell lithium ion battery would have to be sized to 54.5 A-hr capacity. This matches very well the Lithion NCP55-2 cell design at 55 A-hr that is available off-the-shelf  The solar array as was inspired by an umbrella structure While it was originally envisioned as having triangular shaped panel sections, a diurnal array energy analysis showed that the active array area required was small. The assumptions for the analysis are shown in Table 3  Among the three cases considered \(polar, equatorial, and mid-latitude latitude. The solar array was assumed to be deployed to 45   from horizontal to best capture the mid-latitude solar energy. Each of the four panels simulated was independently tracked over a single day to integrate to total panel energy. The results of the study are shown in Table 4  The result of the analysis is that a small 0.2 m2 solar array could provide over twice the required power, including all battery recharge inefficiency related losses. This shows a design margin of over 100% against the 30 W daytime power requirement for the hub, excluding any dust losses The dust losses in the lunar environment are poorly known 


The dust losses in the lunar environment are poorly known but ALSEP retroreflector performance suggests 100 margin would be ample  The small array area required allowed the mechanical design of the array to be simplified. The result would be a very narrow-width solar array configuration shown in Figure 5  The power electronics for the hub and remote units would be identical. The single design would be able to support either a remote unit with instrument and UHF radio or the hub with S-Band DTE and UHF links. A block diagram of the avionics is shown in Figure 6  Design Rationale  The power subsystem would be single string, direct energy transfer, unregulated 28V power bus similar to a conventional low-power spacecraft. It has been optimized for low mass and volume, including the ability to have convenient stowage form factors. The solar array would be the single element with a challenging form factor The long, thin stowed configuration allows it to be packed inside a protective tube. This design also works well for the thermal design, as it would provide minimal blockage of the thermal radiator space view factor \(see thermal subsystem for details of the thermal design  Risk  The design was envisioned using parts and design processes that would be available in the 2010 timeframe and thus does not contain any advanced technologies. The risks inherent in the design could largely be mitigated via a thorough test program. Demonstrating low-power performance, acceptable thermal performance, and solar array durability and electrical performance would be logical verification and validation activities  Thermal Subsystem Design Requirements  The ALGEP elements must be maintained at specified temperature limits for operation on the lunar surface while in an environment that has temperature variations between -173 to ~127  C, and a solar incident energy variation from 0 to 1367.5 W/m2  Design Assumptions  Mission life is 6 Earth years \(except the Seismic Sounders, which operates only from landing to the end of the first lunar day able to operate continuously during the lunar night Table 3. Solar array sizing assumptions Parameter Input Lunar Night 384 hrs / 16 days Lunar Day 336 hrs / 14 days Solar Flux 1365 W/m2 Solar Spectra AMO \(Space @ 1 AU Solar Array Four Panels / Pyramidal Deployment Angle 45   Cell Efficiency 30 Cell Type Triple Junction Array Packing Factor 90 Array Level Losses 8 Nighttime Load Power 2.2 W continuous Nighttime PCU Losses 183 mW Table 4. Solar array sizing model results Parameter Result Total Diurnal Energy \(23  case Total Night Length 384 hr Total Day Length 336 hr Average Nighttime Power 2.43 W Estimated Battery Energy Required 934 W-hr Available Array Energy 60297 W-hr 


Available Array Energy 60297 W-hr Battery Recharge Energy Losses 93 W-hr Shunt Energy Losses 20% Battery W-hr 187 W-hr Remaining Electrical Energy 60017 W-hr Power Conversion Losses 80% Efficiency 12003 W-hr Harness Losses \(4 Available Diurnal Load Energy \(CBE Average Load Energy Supported 67.9 W Array Area 0.20 m2 12 specifically the seismometer and magnetometer continuously while other instruments such as the heat flow probes may operate intermittently. The retroreflector does not require any thermal control resources. Telecom between the Earth and the hub or from the remote units to the hub would be during the lunar day only  Description of the Design  A thermal blanket \(MLI Silver-Teflon would be used to moderate the temperature variation of the surface. The MLI and the lunar material thermal conduction properties could be used to insulate the different ALGEP elements from the external environment  The Mars Exploration Rover thermal switch and a thermal radiator with thermal louvers would be used to reject the internally generated thermal energy. The MER Thermal Switch has the ability to transfer up to 11 W. For the hub three or four switches may be necessary, depending on the RF power output  Potentially a small electric heater/thermostat system may be needed \(on the order of 10% of the dissipated electrical energy example, the seismometer, which dissipates 1.5 W, may need a 0.15 W heater. A detailed thermal analysis would be necessary to further assess this need  The ALGEP hardware location would be dictated by the science requirements. Each ALGEP element could be either positioned on the surface or buried.  An example of a buried element would be the seismometer, while the hub could be surface mounted. In either case a surface blanket would be required. The surface blanket would minimize the lunar temperature variation, from a range of -173 to ~127  C to a range under the blanked between approximately -73 to 27  C. Initial calculations indicate that the blanket extending about 0.5 m beyond the edge of the instrument or hub would provide the temperature control of the lunar surface required to minimize the temperature variation. For the lunar night, a small electric heater may be needed to keep the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits  For polar region operation it is assumed that the ALGEP could operate at all times as the solar arrays would always have incident solar energy and could provide electrical power for operations.  Thus with electrical power for the instruments and hub, the thermal radiator and louvers could maintain the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits. Initial calculations indicate that the current conceptual thermal control design does not require electric heaters for this location  Design Rationale  The design uses MLI, thermal conduction control, electric heaters, thermal radiators thermal louvers, and a deployed surface blanket to provide thermal control to maintain the remote units and hub within specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would 


specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would minimize the temperature variation of the surface, and electric heaters would provide makeup thermal energy  Risk  The thermal subsystem design is a low to moderate risk element, as the hardware used has extensive flight experience. Although this system would be on the surface of the Moon, the environment would be space-like, with the  Figure 6  ALGEP avionics block diagram showing the power and command and data handing  interface. This is a low-power design to enable data collection during lunar night at the remote units. The hub  contains the same avionics package but does not interface with an instrument  13 exception of the infrared heating of the lunar surface therefore the space qualified thermal control hardware could provide thermal control for this mission  Command and Data Handling Subsystem Design Requirements  The ALGEP controller is designed to meet the six year mission lifetime requirement stemming from the science objectives flowing down to the mission requirements and has a technology cutoff of 2016 \(assumes a 2020 launch interface to the science instrument and the UHF radio.  The controller for the hub interfaces to the UHF and S-band radios. Each type of controller would be single string  Design Assumptions  All selected electronic parts for the controller have a path to flight hardware with a technology cutoff of 2016. There would be one ALGEP hub that has a bi-directional S-band link to Earth and a UHF receiver link to the remote instrument units. There would be four ALGEP remote units that have UHF transmitters to link to the ALGEP hub. The controllers would have an operating temperature range: -20  C to 35  C. The total ionizing dose of radiation would be 2 krads for the mission  Description of the Design  Both controller designs would incorporate low-powered Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs devices and I/O drivers.  Portions of the existing MultiMission System Architecture Platform \(MSAP Engineering Unit \(REU IP provide the mission clock and alarm clock logic.  Both the hub and remote unit controllers would capture engineering data regarding temperatures, currents and voltages. Figure 6 provides an overview of the command and data handling and power subsystem architectures.  The remote units would be supplied with 2 Gb of memory and the hub would have 5 Gb of memory  Design Rationale  A low-powered avionics architecture would be achieved by developing a stand-alone controller capable of operating at various power levels. In the lowest power configuration only the mission clock and alarm clock logic would be active. Other logic, analog and I/O functions would be power strobed in the off mode during this very low-power mode. Science and engineering data would be stored in non-volatile memory elements that retain their data in the power-off mode  Risk  The controller requires engineering development to obtain the low-powered mode required for night operation However, it has been designed to incorporate components with flight heritage. A lower frequency oscillator would be used to reduce power  Telecom Subsystem 


Design Requirements  The telecom subsystem is designed to return 3.4 Gb of stored data every 16 days during lunar night in addition to 1.2 Gb of additional data collected each 24 hour period during daylight. This translates into a minimum direct-to-Earth return data rate of ~50 kbps for an 8 hour pass each Earth day for 16 days of sunlight. The subsystem must operate down to a temperature of -20  C and survive non-operational temperature of -50  C. The telecom subsystem would support two-way communications between the hub and the DSN network. It would also support two-way communications between the hub and each of the remote instrument packages on the surface. There would be a minimum 3 dB margin for the direct-to-Earth DTE  Design Assumptions  The telecom subsystem is assumed to be a single string design. The hub would have an S-band radio and antenna for two-way communications with a DSN 34 m ground station. The nominal downlink rate would be 120 kbps and the uplink rate would be 2 kbps. The surface links would be at UHF. The forward link data rate would be 8 kbps and the return rate would be 256 kbps. The maximum range for the surface links would be 100 m. All of the surface links would have line-of-sight between the units. It is assumed that the astronauts would point the Sband antenna towards Earth, within 5  of the center of Earth. This should be relatively easy to do as 5  is a very loose pointing requirement and the uplink/downlink would be marginally affected if the pointing is off by a little more than 5  A signal could be added which would use an uplink from the Earth to give a relative signal power to ensure the pointing requirement is met  Description of the Design  The telecom subsystem would use a commercial off-the-shelf S-band transponder \(L3 CXS-610 has a 5 W power amplifier and an S-band diplexer included This radio is used on GRAIL and a similar unit was used on Genesis. The diplexer would be connected to an S-band low gain antenna \(LGA be a 2-element S-band patch array with a boresight gain of 9 dB. It would be mounted on the end of one solar array on the hub and gimbaled to allow the astronaut to point it to the Earth  The hub communicates with each of the remote instrument units in UHF using a new UHF micro-transceiver. Each UHF microtransceiver would have a radio frequency output power of 50 mW. The UHF transceiver would use a halfduplex system meaning it would transmit and then listen However, it cannot do both at the same time. The UHF links would use a simple UHF monopole antenna, similar to the antennas flown on MER, and mounted on the top of the hub and remote units. The hub could only communicate with one remote unit at a time. Figure 7 shows the hub and remote unit telecom block diagrams  The S-Band telemetry link has a margin of 7.0 dB for a telemetry rate of 120 kbps into a 34 m beam waveguide ground station. The data rate could be increased to reduce 14 playback time. The surface link would have a margin exceeding 20 dB for a return data rate of 256 kbps. This includes a multipath loss allotment of 20 dB. The margin would be large because the range would be so small and all of the links would be line of sight  Design Rationale  Where available, the design of this subsystem uses heritage hardware. The UHF microtransceiver is a radio that is under development for the Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, low 


Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, lowpower and low temperature operation. The S-band antenna would be a smaller, simpler version of the antenna that flew on Deep Impact. Other antenna options would be available The UHF antennas have been flown on previous Mars lander/rover missions. There would be other alternatives for the S-band antenna and the UHF transceiver on the hub could use a larger power amplifier to talk to an orbiting asset as a backup to the S-band radio  Risk  The highest risk items for telecom would be the single string design for each element and six year design lifetime. However, the S-band radio has flight heritage. The UHF radios would be a new design but do not require new technology. They would be an engineering development 8. SYSTEM SUMMARY Mass Equipment List Table 5 shows a summary of the mass and power for each of the subsystems for the remote instrument units. The mass of one remote unit without the specified instrument is 26.6 kg with contingency specified at the subsystem level based on heritage. Table 6 shows a summary of mass and power by subsystem for the hub. The mass of the hub with contingency is 44.9 kg. Table 7 shows a mass summary for the entire package with appropriate contingencies added per the JPL  s Flight Project Practices and Design Principles Design Principles. The package totals 218.2 kg which includes four remote units, five instruments, one hub, and the carrier container\(s Table 5. Mass and power summary for remote units Remote Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 2.0 kg 29% 2.5 kg 0 W Telecom UHF 0.2 24% 0.3 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour 3 W Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 20.6 kg 29% 26.6 kg Diplexer S-Band Downconverter STDN command data to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r S-Band Exciter 9 dBi S-Band LGA UHF Downconverter Small UHF transceiver command data to S/C CDS 


to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r UHF PA UHF Monopole Command data to C&amp;DH Command dat  to C&amp;DH  Figure 7  Telecom block diagram for the S-band \(top bottom  units would be located on the hub while the remote units only contain a UHF system 15 9. OPERATIONAL SCENARIOS Daytime Operations During the day, the remote units and hub would be fully operational. The remote units would collect data from their instruments as specified by the science team and store it in the controller memory. Table 8 shows the data volume expected from each instrument. After 24 hours have passed the UHF telecom system on the hub is used to poll each of the remote units separately at the designated interval for the stored data. The hub then transmits the data direct-to-Earth using the S-band radio. This requires a maximum of eight hours at 50 kbps each day using the DSN 34 m antennas However, data rates as high as 120 kbps may be achieved reducing the downlink time. The hub has enough memory margin to accumulate data from all the instruments for three Earth days before it must downlink the data Nighttime Operations During nighttime operations, data collection at the remote units would be taking place. The magnetometer and seismometer collect data continuously. However, the seismometer operates at a reduced mode where the sampling rate is reduced to one-half of the daytime rate which has been deemed more than adequate by the science team. The remaining instruments collect data at various intervals that would be conducive to the science team  s current requirements. Telecom events would not be scheduled during the lunar night. The data accumulates in the controller memory over 16 Earth days \(~14 days at an equatorial location would be considered a worse case so two days have been added to be conservative data volume summary for each instrument during a 16 Earth day lunar night. When the sun comes up and the hub and remote units have sufficient power to run the telecom systems the hub polls each remote unit separately at a designated interval similar to operations during the day. The data would then be transmitted to Earth gradually over the next few days using the S-band radio Table 7. Mass summary for total package Unit Mass Contingency Mass + contingency 4 Remote Units 82.4 kg 29% 106.4 kg Hub 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg Instruments including cabling 17.3 kg 30% 22.5 kg Carrier Container\(s Total with heritage contingency 153.1 kg 29% 197.5 kg  System contingency  21.4 kg 14 Total Package  43% 218.9 kg Table 8. Instrument data volumes received at the hub over one Earth day in daylight operations Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub 


Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 236 Magnetometer 58 Heat Flow Probe 2 Seismic Sounder 700 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 6 Total 1002 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 80  Table 6. Mass and power summary for hub Hub/Base Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 13.4 kg 28% 17.2 kg 0 W Telecom UHF Telecom S-band 3.4 15% 3.9 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour W \(day Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg 2.38 W avg at night  16 10. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS The ALGEP modular design builds upon lessons learned from Apollo era ALSEP package and technology advances since that time. ALGEP meets the requirements of long lifetime survival while maintaining continuous operation of its instruments during the lunar night which can last up to 16 days at equatorial regions on the Moon. The package would be powered using solar arrays and batteries alone not requiring nuclear sources to supply power or maintain thermal control. This concept is feasible due to its lowpower operational mode at night The modular design and packaging scheme provides flexibility in deployment across all regions of the Moon including the farside pending the availability of an orbital communications asset. The relatively light ALGEP package could be accommodated on astronaut activity support vehicles, providing a method to distribute the packages across the Moon, ultimately gaining a Moon-wide understanding of lunar geophysical properties ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by the NASA Lunar Sortie Science Opportunities Program The work described in this publication was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration References herein to any specific commercial product process or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer 


or otherwise does not constitute or imply its endorsement by the United States Government or the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology REFERENCES 1] NRC  Scientific Context for Exploration of the Moon   Washington D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2007 2] Apollo 11 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-214, 1969 3] Apollo 12 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-235, 1970 4] Apollo 14 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-272, 1971 5] Apollo 15 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-289, 1972 6] Apollo 16 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-315, 1972 7] Apollo 17 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-330, 1973 8] ALSEP Termination Report, NASA RP-1036, 1979 9] NRC  New Frontiers in the Solar System: an Integrated Exploration Strategy  Decadal Survey D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2003 10] International Lunar Network Science Definition Team Final Report, 2009 BIOGRAPHY Melissa Jones is a member of the technical staff in the Planetary and Lunar Mission Concepts Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  Current work includes development of small Lunar lander concepts and instrument packages to deploy on the Moon,  Report Manager for the Titan Saturn System Mission Outer Planets Flagship Mission study, and staffing various concept studies as a systems engineer on Team X, JPL  s mission design team.  Melissa graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry and a Ph.D. in Space and Planetary Science from the University of Arkansas  Linda Herrell has a BA in math/computer science/languages \(University of Texas fluids and heat transfer \(City College of New York addition to analytical work in computer science and thermal and structural analysis, she has worked as both a payload \(instrument Earth orbiting \(Hubble Space Telescope, Earth Observing System \(EOS Cassini as Proposal Manager for several NASA science missions She currently serves as the Program Architect for NASA's New Millennium Program    Table 9. Instrument data volumes generated at the hub after 16 Earth day lunar night Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 1980 Magnetometer 920 Heat Flow Probe 5 Seismic Sounder 0 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 72 Total 2977 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 40  17 Bruce Banerdt has been a research geophysicist at the California Institute of Technology's Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1977, where he does research in planetary geophysics and instrument development for flight projects. He has been on science teams for numerous planetary missions 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


