html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">SelfManagement of Hybrid Networks Can We Trust NetFlow Data Tiago Fioreze?, Lisandro Zambenedetti Granville  Aiko Pras?, Anna Sperotto?, Ramin Sadre University of Twente, Design and Analysis of Communication Systems \(DACS  Enschede, The  Netherlands  Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Institute of Informatics  Porto Alegre, Brazil Email: {t.?oreze, a.pras, a.sperotto, r.sadre}@utwente.nl?, granville@inf.ufrgs.br  Abstract  Network measurement provides vital information on the health of managed networks. The collection of network information can be used for several reasons \(e.g., accounting or security for. At the University of Twente \(UT process for hybrid networks that relies on collected network information has been investigated. This approach, called selfmanagement of hybrid networks requires information retrieved from measuring processes in order to automatically decide on establishing/releasing lambda-connections for IP ?ows that are long in duration and big in volume \(known as elephant ?ows Nonetheless, the employed measurement technique can break the self-management decisions if the reported information does not accurately describe the actual behavior and characteristics of the observed ?ows. Within this context, this paper presents an investigation on the trustfulness of measurements performed using the popular NetFlow monitoring solution when elephant ows are especially observed. We primarily focus on the use of NetFlow with sampling in order to collect network information and investigate how reliable such information is for the selfmanagement processes. This is important because the selfmanagement approach decides which ?ows should be of?oaded to the optical level based on the current state of the network and its running ?ows. We observe three speci?c ?ow metrics: octets packets, and ?ow duration. Our analysis shows that NetFlow provides reliable information regarding octets and packets. On the other hand, the ?ow duration reported when sampling is employed tends to be shorter than the actual duration I. INTRODUCTION With the increasing bandwidth demand by applications such as high-de?nition television \(HDTV   3], and large scale scienti?c experiments \(e.g., LOFAR project 4 work infrastructures that present higher capacity and more reliable data transmission. IP/optical hybrid networks are those that take data forwarding decisions simultaneously at both IP and optical levels [5]. This allows, for example, IP ?ows to be fully transported via lambda-connections at the optical level lambda switching of the IP level. This directly improves the Quality of Service QoS IP networks. Big IP ?ows that overload the regular IP level for example, may be moved to the optical level where they experience better QoS \(e.g., irrelevant jitter and larger bandwidth better serve smaller ?ows There are currently two main approaches to manage lambdaconnections in optical networks [6]: conventional management and GMPLS signaling. In conventional management, a central manager \(e.g., a human administrator or an automated management process create/release lambda-connections, as well as de?nes which IP ows should be moved to the optical level. In contrast, GMPLS signaling enables optical switches to exchange signaling messages to coordinate the creation of lambda-connections thus avoiding the individual con?guration of each device from an external manager. However, the decision on which IP ?ows should be moved to the optical level is still taken by human operators. The human decisions impact directly on the success of employing either centralized management or GMPLS signaling. For example, it may take hours \(intra-domain days \(inter-domains by human operators. In such long periods, several big IP ?ows 


by human operators. In such long periods, several big IP ?ows could have been transported via lambda-connections, but due to the decision delay they remain being routed at the IP level At the University of Twente, a new approach for the management of hybrid networks has been investigated in order to overcome this drawback [7] [8]. Our approach, called self-management of hybrid networks, consists of obtaining information from the managed hybrid network in order to automatically select IP ?ows from the network level, as well as creating/releasing lambda-connections to transport such ?ows at the optical level. In this research, we are mainly concerned of identifying at the IP level the so called elephant ?ows, since they are responsible for most of the IP traf?c despite being of small number if compared to other ?ows [9] [10 In order to decide which ?ows to move to the optical level our self-management approach observes three ?ow parameters octets, packets, and duration. According to the values found for these parameters, the self-management process decides if an IP ?ow should be moved to/from the optical level. Therefore the accurate retrieval of octets, packets, and duration, per ?ow is critical for the quality of the self-management decision. If incorrect values are reported, lambda-connections could, for example, be allocated for non-eligible ?ows, or they could be released for ?ows that are fully active. Thus again, the accurate determination of octets, packets, and duration for each ?ow is crucial There are some solutions to collect ?ow information from managed networks. The Simple Network Management Protocol \(SNMP  577978-1-4244-3487-9/09/$25.00 c  2009 IEEE link utilization in border routers. Flow information via SNMP can be collected as well \(e.g., via RMON and RMON-II but they are rarely employed in practice. NetFlow [12], on the other hand, is largely used to collect ?ow information from Cisco routers. Although initially developed by Cisco today several network devices of other brands also employ the solution. In addition, NetFlow has been strongly in?uencing the de?nition of IPFIX [13], which is an IETF effort on standardizing ?ow-based measurements. In this research we focus our investigation on ?ow information collected using NetFlow, since it is the most popular employed solution for ow measurement In actual scenarios, information collected via NetFlow may suffer from non-expected factors and therefore can be inaccurately reported. Our initial analysis showed that there are three main factors that may in?uence the accuracy of the collected data: \(i e.g., wrong routing tables, wrong NetFlow parameters ii tions, and \(iii measurement process. From these three factors, we investigate in this paper how reliable is the NetFlow collected information depending on the sampling ratio employed. We focus on sampling because real high-scale networks employ sampling in their measurement processes in order to decrease the amount of processed data and therefore reduce the consumption of storage and processing power in the measuring solution The speci?c research question that motivates our investigation is: Can NetFlow information on elephant ?ows, obtained from real networks, be considered reliable when sampling is used? In order to answer that, we have collected and analyzed IP elephant ?ows from three different real networks that employ different sampling ratios: the University of Twente \(UT network, where no sampling is in fact employed; SURFnet SN of 1 out of 100 packets is used; and ?nally on GE  ANT \(G a European backbone that employs a sampling ratio of 1 out of 1000. From the collected ?ows, those that have been classi?ed as elephant ?ows have been ?ltered and observed As we are going to present, the different sampling ratios affect octets, packets, and duration in a different manner. Our study also generated some interesting side effects, such as the 


study also generated some interesting side effects, such as the observations that there is a large amount of ?ows reported as zero in duration, as well as the fact that there is no direct link between ?ow duration and bandwidth consumption even for elephant ?ows The remainder of paper is structured as follows. In Section II we review the current state of the art on network measurement solutions. In Section III we describe our methodology by presenting the decisions and steps taken to make our analysis In Section IV we present the effects of sampling on the observed metrics. Finally, we close this paper in Section V where we draw our conclusions and future work II. RELATED WORK Management of optical networks is an area of research that has been presenting interesting results. Since optical networks usually provide bandwidth larger than conventional networks with better QoS, traditional management approaches for QoSenabled networks \(like DiffServ and IntServ management become less critical. Although presenting better QoS, optical networks and their management present additional challenges such as handling the disruption of the communication paths Rerouting is a technique used in selecting alternative paths when the default one is unavailable. Pro-active rerouting may establish backup links to cope with future disruptions Nelakidit et al. [14], for example, proposes a fast local rerouting solution to quickly select alternative paths. Although important, most research in this area do not look IP and optical network in an integrated way: they usually tackle one layer at a time, which is restricting in the case of hybrid networks On another front, monitoring and measurement research has been quite active in the recent past. Thompson et al. [15 present a characterization of network ?ow-based usage and workloads on a commercial backbone. The authors analyze traf?c data collected at one observation point on different time scales. Recently, Kim et al. [16] present a detailed analysis of ow-based traf?c characteristics. The metrics that have been taken into account are packets, bytes, and port distribution These researches, however, have not been carried out over actual networks, which we believe to be essential for the understanding of the effects of ?ow-based measurements In another work, Duf?eld et al. [17] investigate how to retrieve representative data coming from several locations where sampling is employed. They conclude that traf?c can be represented multiple times in the collected traces, and the increasing use of sampling during measurement leads to some classes of traf?c being poorly reported. More recently Ribeiro et al. [18] used packet sampling as the measurement technique while mainly observing its effect on the ?ow size distribution. They also observed the effects on the packet counts, SYN information, and sequence number information They concluded that TCP sequence number information is essential for accurate ?ow size estimation We believe that these works  both historical analysis of traces and comparison of diverse observation points  even if suitable for highly detailed studies, are missing one important dimension of analysis. In the majority, they present isolated studies, in which only one network is considered. Moreover most of them focus their analysis on estimating precise ?ow size distribution or packet distribution. Few it is known about the effects of different sampling ratios on the ?ow metrics octets, packets, and duration when considering real high-scale networks III. METHODOLOGY The analysis of the effects of sampling over collected network information can be performed in different ways Simulation tools, for example, could be employed to reproduce a network being measured using packet sampling. A controlled environment of a lab network \(test bed However, none of these methods can 100% capture the real behavior of sampling on actual networks. In addition, many 578 2009 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management \(IM 2009 


578 2009 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management \(IM 2009 other factors, such as background traf?c, could in?uence the usage of sampling and they would most likely not be predicted when using simulation tools or controlled test beds. Moreover we believe that background traf?c can play an important role by signi?cantly in?uencing the way packets are sampled and therefore distorting the collected information. Considering that, we believe that analyzing the effects of sampling using data collected from real networks would provide more signi?cant and relevant conclusions. In the remainder of this section we present the steps taken to collect traces, as well as how these traces have been processed in order to enable our analysis A. Exporting NetFlow records from network routers NetFlow-enabled routers inspect1 IP packet headers on transit in order to update an internal cache of so called NetFlow data. Such NetFlow data are then exported as NetFlow records from the local cache to remote computers, called ?ow collectors, whenever one of the following conditions occurs  A ?ow is inactive longer than an inactive timeout, i.e the ?ow record was not updated in cache due to no new packets received for that ?ow before the inactive timeout  A ?ow is active longer than an active timeout, i.e., the ow record has been constantly updated in the local cache for a period of time longer than the active timeout  The FIN and RST TCP ?ags of an observed packet indicate that the ?ow ?nished  The local NetFlow cache is full and needs to be ?ushed By default, NetFlow routers are con?gured with an inactive timeout of 15 seconds and an active timeout of 30 minutes It is important to notice that, given the existence of the active timeout, long lived ?ows \(e.g., elephant ?ows by multiple \(yet complementary if the active timeout is set to 30 minutes and a ?ow lasts 120 minutes, this ?ow will generate 4 NetFlow records, each one reporting a duration of approximately 30 minutes. In order to calculate the real duration of this ?ow, the 4 NetFlow records have to be combined. The step of ?ow combining is described in Subsection III-D ahead B. Packet sampling in ?ow-based measurements The inspection of all packets seen by a router to update NetFlow data in the internal cache may be prohibitive [19 in such large networks due to limitations, for example, in the required router  s CPU power. In order to overcome this issue packet sampling is used instead. Instead of inspecting every packet in order to maintain NetFlow data, routers employing sampling inspect every nth packet, i.e., there is a systematic sampling of 1 packet out of n \(1:n the ?nal traf?c volume, for instance, ends up being estimation rather than the actual measured ?ow volume. In the case of our speci?c experiments, the sampling ratios used in the 1Packet inspection, employed in ?ow-based measurement, inspects network packets seen on the wire to update the appropriate ?elds of ?ow records Inspected packets are not stored in the router  s internal cache considered networks, as well as their inactive and active timeouts \(seconds scale Network Sampling ratio Inactive timeout Active timeout UT 1:1 15 60 SURFnet 1:100 30 300 GE  ANT 1:1000 60 300 TABLE I PACKET SAMPLING RATIOS, AND INACTIVE AND ACTIVE TIMEOUTS PER CONSIDERED NETWORK C. Setup for collecting network traces In order to collect NetFlow data from the considered networks, NetFlow-enabled routers in the UT [20], SURFnet 21], and GE  ANT [22] networks have been con?gured to export NetFlow records to ?ow collectors hosted in the UT network. UT and GE  ANT routers use NetFlow version 5 while SURFnet routers use NetFlow version 9. Despite this diversity the collecting process has not been affected by the different 


the collecting process has not been affected by the different NetFlow versions. Traces from the three networks have been collected over a period of one week \(Jul 26th 2007 - Aug 3rd 2007 research Fig. 1. Experimental environment setup The collectors have been set to dump the incoming NetFlow records in pcap ?les, using the tcpdump tool [23]. The decision to capture records in pcap format has been taken because it allows us to store them in their  raw state  preserving all information forwarded by the exporter and in a format that does not limit our further analysis D. Combining NetFlow records Once the traces are collected, they need to be re?ned in order to facilitate their analysis. To achieve that, we limited our analysis to 2 working days, which corresponds to approximately one-fourth of the total collected traf?c. Our analysis covers therefore the period from Aug 1st 2007 00:00:00 UTC until Aug 2nd 2007 23:59:59 UTC In addition, since different de?nitions of ?ows are employed by the UT, SURFNet, and GE  ANT NetFlow-enabled routers we re-normalized the collected traces in order to use a common 2009 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management \(IM 2009 set of ?ow ?elds. More speci?cally, we used source and destination IP addresses/TCP ports, and transport protocol to identify ?ows in the working traces. For a complete description of the ?elds existing in NetFlow version 9, see the work of Claise [24]. It is important to notice that other NetFlow routers in other environments, could employ either broader or more restrictive ?ow de?nitions. A discussion about ?ow de?nitions and associated effects can be found in the work of Fioreze et al. [25 Since NetFlow reports ?ow metrics in parts, one needs to combine the NetFlow records in order to closely compute the original ?ow duration, number of packets, and octets. In order to combine NetFlow records, there is a need to determine the gap that separates two consecutive ?ow records of the same ow. We have deliberately chosen a gap of 30 seconds, which is a common value for the TCP TIME-WAIT2 state. We then decided that all NetFlow records of the same ?ow whose gap was smaller or equal to 30 seconds are grouped into the same ow. All our analysis were made then over combined ?ows rather than using NetFlow records E. Storing and ?ltering the collected data Once the NetFlow records have been combined into ?ows it is necessary to store the ?ows in a format suitable for our analysis. In our case, we imported the ?ows into a MySQL database [26]. MySQL has been chosen due to the familiarity of the paper  s authors with such a tool. Our MySQL database consists of three different tables, one for each considered network. Each table contains several million of ?ows and requires a storage space in the order of tens of GB. Moreover the analysis has been performed on MySQL 5.0 running in a 2xIntel Dual-Core Xeon 3.2GHz Linux Debian 4.0 machine equipped with 4GB RAM Before starting our analysis, the data stored was ?ltered in order to select only ?ows that transited in the three considered networks and had therefore the chance of being sampled in these networks. Another ?lter was used over the ?rst ?ltered data in order to select only elephant ?ows. We only consider elephant ?ows because they are the kind of ?ows that our self-management approach looks for. Moreover, elephant ?ows are small in amount, but they continuously generate most of the traf?c in the observed networks. In our context, elephant ows are ?ows that, besides generating most of the traf?c have reported duration longer than 15 minutes. In our analysis the elephant ?ows amounted to 7.42% of the total number of ows, but they generated 60% of the total observed octets With this in mind, the coming section shows the results of our analysis considering elephant ?ows IV. TRACE ANALYSIS 


IV. TRACE ANALYSIS This section presents the results of our analysis considering ow octets, packets, and duration. These metrics are consid2When a Transmission Control Protocol \(TCP the socket pair associated with the connection is placed into a state known as TIME-WAIT, which prevents other connections from using that source/destination IP addresses, source/destination TCP ports, and protocol for a period of time ered by comparing their expected value in theory with their obtained value in practice when sampling is employed. In addition, the NetFlow data collected from UT was considered as basis for this comparison. Table II shows how the expected values for each parameter are calculated for each network Octets \(O P be reported in SURFnet and GE  ANT as the original O and P divided by the sampling ratio employed, i.e., 100 and 1000 respectively. In the case of duration \(D of octets and packets seen in SURFnet and GE  ANT, the same duration D is expected in both networks because the sampling ratio should not affect it Network Octets Packets Duration UT O P D SURFnet O/100 P/100 D GE  ANT O/1000 P/1000 D TABLE II EXPECTED VALUES IN THEORY FOR THE SURFNET AND GE  ANT NETWORKS A. Flow octets The ?rst metric considered in our analysis is the ?ow octets We compare this metric by its number expected in theory with the number obtained in practice \(reality expected value in theory for SURFnet and GE  ANT octets and the values that have been obtained in practice. The xaxis shows the elephant ?ows ordered by their number of octets in descending order, being therefore elephant ?ows with bigger sizes leftmost and smaller ones rightmost. The y-axis represents their number of octets in logarithmic scale Fig. 2. Octet distribution in theory and in practice per organizational network Although the behavior of all ?ows can be dif?cult to predict, the behavior of elephant ?ows measured via ?ow sampling is closer to reality. The reason for that is that elephant ows generate a large amount of packets, which increases the chances of their packets to be sampled and, as a result increases the chances of ?ow octets being accurately reported 580 2009 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management \(IM 2009 On the contrary, the remaining ?ows \(mice ?ows smaller number of packets, which make their packets less likely to be sampled, contributing therefore for their distortion of reality \(see the small in-chart in Figure 2 Equally important, Figure 2 shows that the bigger the elephant ?ows are, the closer their obtained values in practice are to their expected values in theory. On the other hand, when the size of elephant ?ow decreases, more imprecise are their reported values, becoming more similar to the behavior of the mice ?ows, but in a much smaller level of distortion when compared with them 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 Elephant flows sorted by their number of octets in descending order 100 0 100 200 300 400 500 D ev ia tio n   


 SURFnet deviation Fig. 3. Deviation percentage of SURFnet elephant ?ows when compared with its theoretical value Figures 3 and 4 show the deviation percentage of the SURFnet and GE  ANT ?ows when compared with their expected value in theory. The average deviation found in our analysis was -0.55% in SURFnet and -5.47% in GE  ANT 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 Elephant flows sorted by their number of octets in descending order 100 0 100 200 300 400 500 D ev ia tio n   G  ANT deviation Fig. 4. Deviation percentage of GE  ANT elephant ?ows when compared with its theoretical value B. Flow packets As the second metric, we consider ?ow packets also comparing its number expected in theory with the number obtained in practice. Figure 5 shows the expected value in theory for SURFnet and GE  ANT packets and the values that were obtained in practice. The x-axis shows the ?ows ordered by the number of packets in descending order, being therefore the ?ows with the bigger amount of packets leftmost and the smaller ones rightmost. The y-axis is in logarithmic scale showing the number of packets. The ?gure shows that if instead of octets, we check the behavior in terms of packets the behavior is rather similar Fig. 5. Packet distribution in theory and in practice per organizational network Figure 5 shows that the bigger the amount of packets of elephant ?ows are, the closer the obtained values for the elephant ?ows packets are to their expected value in theory This was also seen in the previous metric. The reason for that follows the same explanation presented before: the larger the amount of packets generated, the higher the chances are these packets are sampled 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 Elephant flows sorted by their number of packets in descending order 100 0 100 200 300 400 500 D ev ia tio n   SURFnet deviation Fig. 6. Deviation percentage of SURFnet elephant ?ows when compared with its theoretical value Figures 6 and 7 show the deviation percentage of the SURFnet and GE  ANT ?ows when comparing with their expected value in theory. The average deviation found in our 2009 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management \(IM 2009 


2009 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management \(IM 2009 analysis is -0.62% in SURFnet, while in GE  ANT it is -6.20 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 Elephant flows sorted by their number of packets in descending order 100 0 100 200 300 400 500 D ev ia tio n   G  ANT deviation Fig. 7. Deviation percentage of GE  ANT elephant ?ows when compared with its theoretical value Partial conclusion is that both parameters present a certain deviation from the reality, but their deviation is considered small in terms of percentage. SURFnet, which has a sampling ratio smaller than GE  ANT is more precise, whereas GE  ANT presents more deviation from the expected value C. Flow duration This section presents the duration of the observed elephant ows from the three considered organizational networks. The ow duration is shown as total duration, which consists of the timestamp of the last seen packet belonging to the ?ow minus the timestamp of the ?rst packet seen Fig. 8. Packet duration distribution per organizational network Figure 8 shows the obtained duration \(in seconds scale SURFnet and GE  ANT networks. In theory, they should have the same duration as UT, which does not happen. The x-axis shows the ?ows ordered by their duration in descending order being therefore the ?ows with the longer duration leftmost and the shorter ones rightmost. The y-axis is in logarithmic scale showing the duration of every single elephant ?ow In order to better represent the data presented in Figure 9, we model it by using Power regression model. Power regression best ?ts our data to be as close to the actual data as possible. The best ?t lines allow us to better see how much the ow duration obtained in reality deviates from the expected value in theory 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 Elephant flows sorted by their duration in descending order 1 10 100 1000 10000 100000 F lo w d ur at io n lo g1 0 Power regression \(UT \(practice Power regression \(SURFnet \(practice Power regression \(G  ANT \(practice Fig. 9. Packet duration distribution per organization network using Power regression SURFnet reports, in average, -15.15% of difference to the 


SURFnet reports, in average, -15.15% of difference to the UT duration, while in GE  ANT the difference is in average 31.15%. This allows to conclude that the greater the sampling ratio is, the greater the number of misreported ?ows \(in terms of duration more sensitive for missing packets than the packets and octets metrics. That happens when packets from the outermost of a ?ow are missed. For example, if a ?ow had 1000 packets whose the 900 ?rst ones were regularly sent in intervals of 5 seconds and the last 100 packets were sent in intervals of 25 seconds. At its end, this ?ow would have in reality a duration of 7000 seconds. Let  s image though that the 100 last packets of this ?ow were not sampled: the ?ow would then be reported as having 900 packets and a duration of 4500 seconds. That is, the number of packets would be 10% less than in reality whereas the duration reported would wrongly be report as 35 shorter than in reality. Since packets are not equally spared in time, this misinformation about the ?ow duration could even be more inaccurate. In addition to that, we saw, in our analysis several ?ows whose reported duration was less than 50% of their real duration In order to understand the relationship, for elephant ?ows between octets and duration, Figure 10 presents the same graph presented in Figure 8, but the x-axis is now ordered by octets. The ?gure allows us to observe that in fact there is no relationship between elephant ?ow  s volume and duration It means that some elephant ?ows generate lots of octets \(big in volume small duration others may instead last longer but consume less bandwidth Partial conclusion regarding to the metric ?ow duration is that it is more risky for our self-management approach to 582 2009 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management \(IM 2009 Fig. 10. Flows duration ordered by ?ows octets of?oad traf?c based on reported ?ow duration than taking the same decision based on octets or packets We have observed the behavior of sampling considering ows that last at least 15 minutes. The reason is that ?ows that last less than 15 minutes are considered too short to be of?oaded to the optical level by our self-management approach. This limit of 15 minutes in fact may be changed according to the policies on each hybrid network. In order to understand how ?ows that last longer or shorter than 15 minutes are reported in average, we varied the minimum duration from 1 to 180 minutes and computed the mean deviation for octets, packets, and duration for SURFnet and GE  ANT networks. The result of that is presented in Figure 11 Fig. 11. Deviation percentage of SURFnet and GE  ANT elephant ?ows while varying the ?ow duration As it can be seen, the higher sampling ratio of GE  ANT affected the quality of the reported information. Again, the parameter that suffers the most is duration. It is also possible to observe that the deviation in SURFnet generally stabilizes earlier than in GE  ANT due to the sampling ratios employed For example, in SURFnet ?ows that last at least 20 minutes are reported with a deviation similar to the set of ?ows lasting longer than that. In the case of GE  ANT, however the stabilization in terms of duration is reached at around 80 minutes Flows with duration equal to zero Another interesting fact regarding to duration found during our analysis was the great amount of ?ows reported with duration equal to zero, reported in the three considered networks The two main reasons for this large amount of ?ows with duration equal to zero are  The existence of applications that regularly send control messages: we have found that there is a group of applications that make NetFlow to generate ?ows with a single packet \(i.e. ?ows with duration zero applications such as the well-known DNS and NTP, but also some ones such as Gnutella. These applications peri 


also some ones such as Gnutella. These applications periodically send control messages either for synchronization e.g., NTP e.g., DNS periodicity is bigger than the NetFlow inactive timeout see Subsection III-A ows with duration equal to zero  The usage of sampling: sampling increases the chance of not inspecting a packet belonging to an existent ?ow in cache. As a result of that, the number of ?ows with single packets is bigger in those networks where higher sampling ratios are used. For example, UT does not use sampling and it had 56.18% of the ?ows reported with duration equal to zero during the collection period Within the same collection period, SURFnet \(sampling ratio 1:100  ANT \(sampling ratio 1:1000 75.86% and 79.32% of the ?ows reported with duration equal to zero, respectively V. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this paper we presented a study about the impact on reporting network statistics about elephant ?ows when using NetFlow with packet sampling. This paper includes wellstudied network statistics such as ?ow packets and octets, but also ?ow duration. Our analysis used three different organization networks as case study \(UT, SURFnet, and GE  ANT well as took into consideration their different sampling ratios 1:1, 1:100, and 1:1000, respectively The research question raised in this paper was Can NetFlow information on elephant ?ows, obtained from real networks be considered reliable when sampling is used? Our conclusion is that the observed parameters octets and packets are reliably reported when sampling is used, but ?ow duration is considerably affected by its use. Our analysis show that in average, octets and packets are respectively reported as 0.55% and -0.62% less than their expected value in theory i.e., they deviate SURFnet sampling ratio 1:1000 \(GE  ANT sampling ratio 2009 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management \(IM 2009 and packets deviation from the expected value in theory is 5.47% and -6.20%, respectively. This leads us to conclude that the bigger the sampling ratio is, the less precise the number of octets and packets will be reported Not only octets and packets are affected, but also ?ow duration. Actually, ?ow duration showed in our analysis to be very sensitive to sampling. Several analyzed samples showed us a reported duration smaller than in reality. This imprecision in reporting the expected duration increases when the sampling ratio increases as well. Our analysis showed that in average the ?ow duration had a deviation of -15.15% and -31.15 from the expected value \(i.e., UT ?ow duration and 1:1000 sampling ratios were used. The reason that ?ow duration is more sensitive to sampling than packets and octets comes from the fact that duration is highly affected when packets from the outermost of ?ows are not sampled. Even though this may not make a big difference to the overall amount of packets and octets belonging to a ?ow, it will pull down the duration of a ?ow, sometimes in seconds scales In addition, this sensitiveness increases when the number of packets belonging to a ?ow is small, that is, almost reaching the sampling ratio. Since the chances of a packet being sampled decreases in that case, it also increases then the chance that packets will not be tailed up to count for the duration \(as well as for the packets and octets counters, but in a less harmful way the bigger the number of packets belonging to a ?ow is, more reliable is its duration, because the bigger are the chances the packet will be sampled and, therefore, counted Still regarding ?ow duration, the number of ?ows with duration equal to zero occurs due to the fact that some applications periodically send few packets either for cache updates or synchronization. This periodicity in sending packets 


updates or synchronization. This periodicity in sending packets makes NetFlow wait for the next packet of the ?ow, which does not happen. As a result, NetFlow exports this ?ow record with a single packet due to its inactivity. The usage of sampling also increased the number of ?ows reported as zero duration The reason for that is because sampling increases the chances of a packet belonging to a ?ow in cache not to be selected and inspected. This ?ow record is as well exported due to inactivity, contributing then for the high amount of ?ows reported as zero duration. Finally, we also observed that in elephant ?ows, there is no relationship between ?ow volume and duration, since shorter ?ows may generate more traf?c while longer ?ows may consume less bandwidth As future work, it would be interesting to see more details about the in?uence of background traf?c on the sampling data This could help us to better understand how to overcome a situation where background traf?c affects the sampled traf?c of interest ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research work has been supported by the EC ISTEMANICS Network of Excellence \(#26854 to Roel Hoek \(UT SURFnet Molina \(GE  ANT collection process. Also special thanks to the DACS students Daan van der Sanden, Gert Vliek, and Joris Kinable for their effort in the creation of our MySQL database. Last but not least, we thank Marcelo Edgar Bo  ck for his help in the SQL queries REFERENCES 1] E. Baaren, L. van de Wijngaert, and E. Huizer  Who  s Afraid of High Def? Institutional Factors In?uencing HDTV Diffusion in the Netherlands  in ICDS, 2008, pp. 42  48 2] M. Toure, G. Berhe, P. Stolf, L. Broto, N. D. Palma, and D. Hagimont  Autonomic Management for Grid Applications  in PDP, 2008, pp 79  86 3] R. Boutaba, W. Golab, Y. Iraqi, T. Li, and B. S. Arnaud  GridControlled Lightpaths for High Performance Grid Applications  The Journal of Grid Computing, vol. 1, no. 4, pp. 387  394, 2003 4] K. V. der Schaaf, J. D. Bregman, and C. M. de Vos  Hybrid Cluster Computing Hardware and Software in the LOFAR Radio Telescope  in PDPTA, 2003, pp. 695  701 5] A. Leon-Garcia and I. Widjaja, Communication Networks: Fundamental Concepts and Key Architectures, 2nd ed. New York: McGraw-Hill Companies, 2003 6] G. Bernstein, B. Rajagopalan, and D. Saha, Optical Network Control Architecture, Protocols, and Standards. Reading: Addison Wesley Publishers, 2003 7] T. Fioreze and A. Pras  Using Self-Management for Establishing Light Paths in Optical Networks: An Overview  in Poster session of EUNICE 2006, pp. 17  20 8] T. Fioreze, R. van de Meent, and A. Pras  An Architecture for the Selfmanagement of Lambda-Connections in Hybrid Networks  in EUNICE 2007, pp. 141  148 9] T. Mori, M. Uchida, R. Kawahara, J. Pan, and S. Goto  Identifying Elephant Flows Through Periodically Sampled Packets  in ACM SIGCOMM, 2004, pp. 115  120 10] J. Wallerich, H. Dreger, A. Feldmann, B. Krishnamurthy, and W. Willinger  A Methodology For Studying Persistency Aspects of Internet Flows  Computer Communication Review, vol. 35, no. 2, pp. 23  36 2005 11] D. Harrington, R. Presuhn, and B. Wijnen  An Architecture for Describing Simple Network Management Protocol \(SNMP Frameworks  Request for Comments: 3411, Dec. 2002, IETF 12] Cisco IOS NetFlow, http://www.cisco.com/go/net?ow, May 2008 13] B. Claise  Speci?cation of the IP Flow Information Export \(IPFIX Protocol for the Exchange of IP Traf?c Flow Information  Request for Comments: 5101, Jan. 2008, IETF 14] S. Nelakuditi, S. Lee, Y. Yu, Z.-L. Zhang, and C.-N. Chuah  Fast Local Rerouting for Handling Transient Link Failures  IEEE/ACM Trans Netw., vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 359  372, 2007 


Netw., vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 359  372, 2007 15] K. Thompson, G. J. Miller, and R. Wilder  Wide-Area Internet Traf?c Patterns and Characteristics  IEEE Network, vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 10  23 1997 16] M.-S. Kim, Y. J. Won, and J. W. Hong  Characteristic Analysis of Internet Traf?c from the Perspective of Flows  Computer Communications vol. 29, no. 10, pp. 1639  1652, 2006 17] N. Duf?eld, C. Lund, and M. Thorup  Optimal Combination of Sampled Network Measurements  in IMC, 2005, pp. 91  104 18] B. Ribeiro, D. Towsley, T. Ye, and J. C. Bolot  Fisher Information of Sampled Packets: An Application to Flow Size Estimation  in IMC 2006, pp. 15  26 19] N. Duf?eld  Sampling for Passive Internet Measurement: A Review  Statistical Science, vol. 19, no. 3, pp. 472  498, 2004 20] University of Twente, www.utwente.nl, May 2008 21] SURFnet, www.surfnet.nl, May 2008 22] GE  ANT, www.geant.net, May 2008 23] Tcpdump/libpcap, http://www.tcpdump.org/, May 2008 24] B. Claise  Cisco Systems NetFlow Services Export Version 9  Request for Comments: 3954, Oct. 2004, IETF 25] T. Fioreze, M. O. Wolbers, R. van de Meent, and A. Pras  Finding Elephant Flows for Optical Networks  in IM, 2007, pp. 627  640 26] M. Siekkinen, E. W. Biersack, G. Urvoy-Keller, V. Goebel, and T. Plagemann  InTraBase: Integrated Traf?c Analysis Based on a Database Management System  in E2EMON, 2005, pp. 32  46 584 2009 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management \(IM 2009 pre></body></html 


interact with strategic and structural properties of a firm Also, as we see growing amounts of regulation and stronger public reactions to how firms conduct their business, compliance issues have received increased attention. Especially from an IT governance perspective, two questions are exciting to ask: How are alignment and compliance related, i.e. to what extent can or should the dimensions of alignment be an explicit part of compliance activities? And one step further: As regulation regarding internal controls like the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the USA affects almost all IT activities [61] this is a highly relevant issue. From an IT business value perspective, IT business alignment may be a driver but IT compliance may act as a constraint In practice, combining the demands for compliance and value delivery of IT is widely seen as the domain of IT governance [43]. This leads to the second question: Is there a positive business value impact from compliance beside just being compliant, i.e. do improvements from better governance/alignment structures and actions would have been worth the effort even without external regulatory pressure Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 References   1] Alavi, M. and Leidner, D.E., "Review: Knowledge Management and Knowledge Management Systems: Conceptual Foundations and Research Issues", MIS Quarterly 25\(1 2] Armstrong, J.S. and Overton, T.S., "Estimating Nonresponse Bias in Mail Surveys", Journal of Marketing Research, 14 3] Avison, D., Jones, J., Powell, P., and Wilson, D., "Using and Validating the Strategic Alignment Model", Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 13\(3 4] Barua, A., Kriebel, C.H., and Mukhopadhyay, T., "Information Technologies and Business Value: An Analytical and Empirical Investigation", Information Systems Research, 6\(1 5] Bassellier, G. and Benbasat, I., "Business Competence of Information Technology Professionals: Conceptual Development and Influence on IT-Business Partnerships MIS Quarterly, 28\(4 6] Beimborn, D., Franke, J., Gomber, P., Wagner, H.-T and Weitzel, T., "Die Bedeutung des Alignments von IT und Fachressourcen in Finanzprozessen: Eine empirische Untersuchung", Wirtschaftsinformatik, 48\(5 339 7] Beimborn, D., Franke, J., Wagner, H.-T., and Weitzel T., "The impact of outsourcing on IT business alignment and IT flexibility: a survey in the German banking industry",  Twelfth Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS 8] Beimborn, D., Franke, J., Wagner, H.-T., and Weitzel T., "Strategy matters - The role of strategy type for IT business value",  12th Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 9] Beimborn, D., Franke, J., Wagner, H.-T., and Weitzel T., "The impact of operational alignment on IT flexibility Empirical evidence from a survey in the German banking industry",  13th Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS CO 10] Beimborn, D., Franke, J., Wagner, H.-T., and Weitzel T., "The Influence of Alignment on the PostImplementation Success of a Core Banking Information System: An Embedded Case Study",  40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS Big Island \(HI 


Big Island \(HI 11] Beimborn, D., Hirschheim, R., Schlosser, F., Schwarz A., and Weitzel, T., "How to Achieve IT Business Alignment? Investigating the Role of Business Process Documentation in US and German Banks",  14th Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2008 12] Bergeron, F., Raymond, L., and Rivard, S., "Ideal patterns of strategic alignment and business performance Information &amp; Management, 41\(8 13] Bhatt, G.D., "Managing information systems competence for competitive advantage: an empirical analysis 24th International Conference on Information Systems ICIS WA 14] Bhatt, G.D. and Grover, V., "Types of Information Technology Capabilities and Their Role in Competitive Advantage: An Empirical Study", Journal of Management Information Systems, 22\(2 15] Boynton, A.C., Zmud, R.W., and Jacobs, G.C., "The influence of IT management practice on IT use in large organizations", MIS Quarterly, 18\(3 16] Broadbent, M., Leading Governance, Business and IT Processes: the Organizational Fabric of Business and IT Partnership, Gartner ITEP Findings, 1998 17] Broadbent, M. and Weill, P., "Improving business and information strategy alignment: learning from the banking industry", IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1 18] Burn, J.M. and Szeto, C., "A Comparison of the Views of Business and IT Management on Success Factors for Strategic Alignment", Information &amp; Management, 37\(4 2000, 197-216 19] Carmeli, A. and Tishler, A., "The Relationships Between Intangible Organizational Elements and Organizational Performance", Strategic Management Journal 25\(13 20] Carr, N.G., "IT doesn't matter", Harvard Business Review, \(May 21] Castanias, R.P. and Helfat, C.E., "Managerial Resources and Rents", Journal of Management, 17\(1 155-171 22] Chan, Y.E., Huff, A.S., Barclay, D.W., and Copeland D.G., "Business strategic orientation, information systems strategic orientation, and strategic alignment", Information Systems Research, 8\(2 23] Chang, J.C.-J. and King, W.R., "Measuring the performance of information systems: a functional scorecard Journal of Management Information Systems, 22\(1 85-115 24] Chiasson, M.W. and Davidson, E., "Taking Industry Seriously in Information Systems Research", MIS Quarterly, 29\(4 25] Chin, W.W., "The partial least squares approach for structural equation modelling" in: Marcoulides, G. A. \(Ed Modern Methods for Business Research,  Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah \(NJ 26] Chung, S.H., Rainer, R.K., and Lewis, B.R., "The impact of information technology infrastructure flexibility on strategic alignment and applications implementation Communications of the AIS, 11 27] Cragg, P.B., King, M., and Hussin, H., "IT Alignment and Firm Performance in Small Manufacturing Firms Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 11\(2 132 28] De Haes, S. and Van Grembergen, W., "IT Governance and its Mechanisms", Information Systems Control Journal, 1 29] De Haes, S. and Van Grembergen, W., "Information Technology Governance Best Practices in Belgian Organisations",  39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Hawaii, 2006 30] Eisenhardt, K.M., "Building theories from case study research", Academy of Management Review, 14\(4 


research", Academy of Management Review, 14\(4 532-550 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 31] Feurer, R., Chaharbaghi, K., Weber, M., and Wargin J., "Aligning Strategies, Processes, and IT: A Case Study Information Systems Management, 17\(1 32] Galbraith, J.R., Organization Design, AddisonWesley, Reading \(MA 33] Galunic, D.C. and Rodan, S., "Resource recombinations in the firm: knowledge structures and the potential for Schumpeterian innovation", Strategic Management Journal, 19\(12 34] Gefen, D., Straub, D.W., and Boudreau, M., "Structural Equation Modeling and Regression: Guidelines for Research Practice", Communications of the AIS, 4\(7 35] Gordon, J.R. and Gordon, S.R., "Structuring the Interaction between IT and Business Units: Prototypes for Service Delivery", Information Systems Management 17\(1 36] Griffiths, G.H. and Finlay, P.N., "IS-enabled sustainable competitive advantage in financial services, retailing and manufacturing", Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 13\(1 37] Guldentops, E., "IT Governance: Part and Parcel of Corporate Governance",  CIO Summit, European Financial Management &amp; Market Conference, Brussels, 2002 38] Hansen, M.T., "The search-transfer problem: the role of weak ties in sharing knowledge across organization subunits", Administrative Science Quarterly, 44\(1 82-111 39] Henderson, B.D. and Venkatraman, N., "Strategic alignment: leveraging information technology for transforming organizations", IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1 4-16 40] Holsapple, C.W. and Luo, W., "A Framework for Studying Computer Support of Organizational Infrastructure", Information &amp; Management, 31\(1 41] Hulland, J., "Use of Partial Least Squares \(PLS strategic management research. A review of four recent studies", Strategic Management Journal, 20\(2 204 42] Hult, G.T.M., Ketchen Jr., D.J., and Nichols Jr., E.L An Examination of Cultural Competitiveness and Order Fulfillment Cycle Time within Supply Chains", Academy of management Journal, 45\(3 43] Institute, I.G., Board Briefing on IT Governance, IT Govnernace Institute, Rolling Meadows \(IL 44] Kearns, G., S. and Lederer, A.L., "The Impact of Industry Contextual Factors on IT Focus and the Use of IT for Competitive Advantage", Information &amp; Management 41\(7 45] Lederer, A.L. and Mendelow, A.L., "Coordination of information systems plans with business plans", Journal of Management Information Systems, 6\(2 46] Luftman, J., Competing in the Information Age. Align the Stand, Oxford University Press, Oxford \(MA 47] Luftman, J. and Brier, T., "Achieving and Sustaining Business-IT Alignment", California Management Review 42\(1 48] Mooney, J.G., Gurbaxani, V., and Kraemer, K.L., "A Process Oriented Framework for Assessing the Business Value of Information Technology", The DATA BASE for Advances in Information Systems, 27\(2 49] Nelson, K.M. and Cooprider, J.G., "The contribution of shared knowledge to IS group performance", MIS Quarterly, 20\(4 50] Nunnally, J.C., Psychometric theory, McGraw Hill New York \(NY 51] Peterson, R., "Crafting Information Technology Governance", Information Systems Management, 21\(4 7-22 


52] Peterson, R.R., "Information Strategies and Tactics for Information Technology Governance" in: Van Grembergen, W. \(Ed vernance,  Idea Group Publishing, Hershey \(PA 80 53] Podsakoff, P.M., MacKenzie, S.B., Lee, J.-Y., and Podsakoff, N., "Common Method Biases in Bevioral Research: A Critical Review of the Literature and Recommended Remedies", Journal of Applied Psychology, 88\(5 2003, 879-903 54] Powell, T.C. and Dent-Micallef, A., "Information Technology as Competitive Advantage: The Role of Human, Business, and Technology Resources", Strategic Management Journal, 18\(5 55] Reich, B.H. and Benbasat, I., "Measuring the linkage between business and information technology objectives MIS Quarterly, 20\(1 56] Reich, B.H. and Benbasat, I., "Factors that influence the social dimension of alignment between business and information technology objectives", MIS Quarterly, 24\(1 2000, 81-113 57] Reich, B.H. and Kaarst-Brown, M.L., "Creating Social and Intellectual Capital through IT Career Transitions Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 12\(2 109 58] Ringle, C.M., Wende, S., and Will, A., "SmartPLS 2.0 M3 \(beta 59] Sambamurthy, V. and Zmud, R.W., "At the Heart of Success: Organizationwide Management Competencies" in Sauer, Christopher and Yetton, Philip \(Eds Future: Fresh Thinking on the Management of IT-based Organizational Transformation,  Jossey-Bass Publishers San Francisco, 1997, 143-163 60] Segars, A.H. and Grover, V., "Strategic Information Systems Planning Success: An Investigation of the Construct and Its measurement", MIS Quarterly, 22\(2 139-163 61] Smith, H.A. and McKeen, J.D., "Developments in Practice XXI: IT in the New World of Corporate Governance Forms", Communications of the AIS, 17 62] Straub, D.W., Boudreau, M.-C., and Gefen, D., "Validation Guidelines for IS Positivist Research", Communications of the AIS, 13 63] Tallon, P.P., Kreamer, K.L., and Gurbaxani, V., "Executives perception of the business value of information technology: a process-oriented approach", Journal of Management Information Systems, 16\(4 64] Teo, T.S.H. and Ang, J.S.K., "Critical Success Factors in the Alignment of IS Plans with Business Plans", International Journal of Information Management, 19\(2 173-185 65] Teo, T.S.H. and King, W.R., "Integration between Business Planning and Information Systems Planning: An Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 Evolutionary-Contingency Perspective", Journal of Management Information Systems, 14\(1 66] Tiwana, A., Bharadwaj, A., and Sambamurthy, V The antecedents of information systems development capability in firms: a knowledge integration perspective 24th International Conference on Information Systems ICIS WA 67] Van Der Zee, J.T.M. and De Jong, B., "Alignment is not Enough: Integrating Business and Information Technology Management with the Balanced Business Scorecard", Journal of Management Information Systems, 16\(2 1999, 137-158 68] Van Grembergen, W., "The Balanced Scorecard and IT Governance", Information Systems Control Journal 2\(1 69] Van Grembergen, W. and De Haes, S., "Measuring and Improving IT Governance through the Balanced Score 


and Improving IT Governance through the Balanced Scorecard", Information Systems Control Journal, 2 70] Van Grembergen, W., De Haes, S., and Guldentops E., "Structures, Processes and Relational Mechanisms for IT Governance" in: Van Grembergen, W. \(Ed for Information Technology Governance,  Idea Group Publishing, 2004, 1-37 71] Wagner, H.-T., A resource-based perspective on IT business alignment and firm performance - Theoretical foundation and empirical evidence, ibidem, Stuttgart, Germany, 2007 72] Wagner, H.-T. and Weitzel, T., "IT Business Alignment as Governance Tool for Firm-Internal Relationship Quality: A Longitudinal Case Study",  41th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-41 Island, Hawaii, 2008 73] Webb, P., Pollard, C., and Ridley, G., "Attempting to Define IT Governance: Wisdom or Folly?",  39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Kauai, Hawaii, 2006 74] Zahra, S.A. and George, G., "The Net-Enabled Business Innovation Cycle and the Evolution of Dynamic Capabilities", Information Systems Research, 13\(2 147-150 75] Zmud, R.W., "Building relationships throughout the corporate entity" in: Elam, J., Ginzberg, M., Keen, P., and Zmud, R.W. \(Eds mission, the framework, the transition,  1988, Washington 1988, 55-82   Appendix  Table 5. Used indicators All items have been evaluated by using a 5-point Likert scale ranging from ?strongly agree? to  strongly disagree ID Item References Executive support \(ES ES1 The IT unit is sufficiently represented in our bank  s executive board. [18 ES2 Top management actively supports interplay between business and IT Strategic Alignment \(SA SA1 I am familiar with the IT strategy. [55 SA2 The IT strategy is accurately aligned with the business strategy. [22, 54, 55, 63 SA3 The IT strategy is documented. [17, 54 Governance Mechanisms \(GM GM1 There are explicit incentives rewarding good interaction with the IT unit. [51 GM2 The back office is proactively involved into IT planning. [17, 26, 55 GM3 There is a specific organizational unit or function to improve the communication be-tween  the IT and the back office 17, 26 Operational Alignment \(OA OA1 There is mutual trust and respect between IT unit and the back office. [13, 46, 64 OA2 IT and the back office regularly consult each other. [13, 17, 19 OA3 There are meetings on a regular basis between IT and back office for identifying business process improvements 17, 26, 55  OA4 There is extensive communication between IT unit and back office. [15, 17, 26 OA5 IT employees are able to interpret business related problems and develop solutions. [13, 60  64 Process Performance \(PP PP1 The configuration of our credit process allows us to sustain a competitive advantage in the  relevant market 36 PP2 The configuration of our credit process allows us to differentiate us from the competi-tors  in the relevant market 36, 42 PP3 Compared to our competitors, the operational efficiency of our loans process is higher. [23  27 PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  


PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  5 much worse 71 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





