E-File Adoption: A Study of U.S. Taxpayers Intentions   Ludwig Christian Schaupp West Virginia University christian.schaupp@mail.wvu.edu Lemuria Carter North Carolina A&T State Univ ldcarte2@ncat.edu Jeff Hobbs Appalachian State University hobbsjc@appstate.edu   Abstract In the United States, congress has set goals for the diffusion of e-government initiatives.  One of congress  goals for 2007 was for 80% of  tax and informational returns to be filed electronically [1  Ho wever, to d a t e 
that goal has not been achieved.  This paper proposes a model of e-file adoption integrating the UTAUT model, online trust, perceived risk, and optimism bias into a comprehensive model of e-file adoption. To test the model a survey is administered to 260 U.S taxpayers.  The instrument assesses citizen perceptions of trust, risk, information technology adoption, and optimism bias. Structural equation modeling is used to evaluate relationships between these concepts and intention to use. Results indicate performance expectancy, social influence, facilitating conditions and optimism bias all have a significant impact on efile intention. Trust in the internet and trust in  e-filer were shown to significantly influence perceived risk Implications for practice and research are discussed  
 Keywords: E-Filing, IT Adoption, Optimism Bias     1. Introduction Since the global explosion and adoption of the Internet countless amounts of money have been spent on egovernment services worldwide. However, to date the results have been scattered and disappointing by most metrics. One thing that has become inherently clear is that setting up e-government systems simply to duplicate their brick and mortar equivalents is a tremendous waste of citizens time and money. An efficient effective e-government service is designed 
with the user in mind, not the bureaucrat. Successful egovernment initiatives are not all about the technology they involve rethinking and redesigning the way government operates. One issue that has continued to elude government agencies in their quest for egovernment adoption is the need for cohesive multichannel distribution. It should not make a difference whether a citizen contacts the government agency via the internet, telephone, in person, or in writing; the outcome should be the same and it should be done in an efficient and effective mann 
 To date, e-government websites have been more about quantity than they have about quality. In contrast, e-commerce has been a resounding a success by any metric. E-commerce has transformed industries such as travel. However, in contrast e-government initiatives have not seen nearly the success and to date has only proven to be extremely expensive. The underlying issue to date has not necessarily been a problem of design, but utilization. The key to successful e-government, are systems that are utilized and meet users needs 
 Today, governments in almost every advanced country house documents intended for the public online \(somewhere in cyberspace\his gives the citizen access to almost anything they might want It goes without saying that simply posting information online is not a guarantee of successful e-government being able to download a form does not mean that it gets filled out correctly and sent to the right place Making the right documents available is only part of it getting citizens to adopt the e-services has proven to be the lingering obstacle  According to Brown University 
s annual Global e-Government Study the United States ranked fourth out of 198 countries surveyed in global e government [3  A  fl a g s h i p p r oj e c t i n t h e U  S i s  usa.gov, which is critically acclaimed as the best single e-government website in the world. Its sole purpose is to provide information to citizens including links to over 100 online services, including links to renew a passport, download visa forms, etc. One electronic service that is receiving increased attention is e-filing The electronic filing of income tax returns \(the e-file 
program\ has grown into a Congressional initiative however, its outright adoption by citizens has yet to be fully achieved. E-filing has the potential to improve the overall process of tax filing for the individual filer while at the same time reducing the cost to both taxpayers and tax collection agencies  E-file services have been implemented with the goal of easing the burden on the taxpayer and increase compliance through the innovative use of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


technology h e In tern a l R e v e n u e  S e rv ice \(IR S   has a documented goal in which any exchange or transaction that currently occurs in person, over the phone or in writing can be accomplished electronically In response, congress set a goal of having 80% of all tax and informational returns filed electronically by 2007 T h e u s e of IR S e ndors ed ef i l e sy st e m s h a s continued to grow over the last couple of years with 52.9 million individual returns being filed in 2003 approximately 68 million in 2005 [5 d  approximately 80 million in 2007 [6 e v e r, th i s  still only accounts for a little more than 50% of the total number of returns. Thus, the government has fallen well short of the 80% goal and outright adoption by citizens remains elusive for the IRS  By most accounts the U.S. e-file program has largely been considered to be an e-government success story. The e-file program began in 1986 as a pilot project by the IRS and H&R Block in three cities Cincinnati, Phoenix, and Raleigh-Durham, NC.  25,000 tax returns were filed electronically that year.  In 1990 the e-file program went nationwide and has enjoyed tremendous growth. Yet, despite the impressive growth the IRS and Congress have not reached their published goal of 80% of all returns being filed electronically. In fact we are still well short of that goal The objectives of this study are   To identify the impact of the UTAUT factors on e-file adoption intention   To identify the impact of online trust perceptions on perceived risk and its influence on e-file adoption intention   To identify the impact of optimism bias on efile adoption intention Building on previous technology acceptance and egovernment studies, we develop a model aimed at further understanding U.S. taxpayers intention to use an e-file system. Specifically, a survey is conducted to examine taxpayers intentions to use an IRS endorsed e-file system. The U.S. e-file system is a prime example of a current e-government service where citizen adoption expectations are presently lagging behind. This paper contributes to the literature by empirically validating the UTAUT model in a voluntary usage e-government service context. This study posits that by integrating literature on IT adoption \(UTAUT\line trust perceptions, perceived risk, and optimism bias researchers can gain a more comprehensive understanding of e-file adoption in the United States  The remainder of the paper proceeds as follows:  section 2 presents the theoretical foundations of the proposed research model. In section 3, we construct the research model and hypotheses. Section 4 describes the methodology used to empirically test the model.  The results are presented in section 5. We provide a discussion of the findings, an agenda for future research, and limitations in section 6. Finally concluding comments are presented in section 7  2. Theoretical Development How and why individuals choose to adopt new technologies has forever been the focal point of IS research. Within this broad area of research there is a core area of literature that focuses on intention. The Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology UTAUT\e most predominant and comprehensive theory existing in the literature to date. The UTAUT model is comprised of eight theoretical models:  the theory of reasoned action \(TRA\e technology acceptance model \(TAM\e motivational model, the theory of planned behavior \(TPB\ a model combining the technology acceptance model and the theory of planned behavior, the model of PC utilization, the innovation diffusion theory, and the social cognitive theory. The goal of UTAUT is to understand intention/usage as the dependent va A U T  has been utilized in prior e-government research investigating e-government service adoption [8   In addition to technology adoption factors, the literature also identifies perceived risk as an important predictor of intention h e prop os ed m odel  combines adoption factors, perceived risk and optimism bias to explain citizens intention to use efiling in the United States   2.1 The UTAUT Model The UTAUT model integrates the eight theoretical models noted above and is made up of four core determinants of usage intention \(performance expectancy, effort expectancy, social influence, and facilitating conditions T h e u n i f i ed t h eoretical  model was empirically tested in four different organizational settings \(entertainment, telecomm banking, and public administration industries\er a period of six months the f o u r core determ in a n ts  performance expectancy, effort expectancy, and social influence significantly predict intention. The UTAUT model is well suited for the context of this study in that the IRS is the organizational function of the government which collects taxes. Taxes should be paid by all citizens on an annual basis to the IRS. The payment of taxes are mandatory, however, the choice to e-file via an IRS sponsored e-file system is a voluntary usage context. Therefore, it is in this setting that the use of the UTAUT model is best suited for an investigation into the use and adoption of an IRS e-file system Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


 The comprehensiveness, validity and reliability of the UTAUT model have encouraged the current authors of this study to adopt and validate it in the context of e-file adoption. The model was amended to suit the context of the study. Performance expectancy was measured by the perceptions of using e-government services in terms of benefits, such as saving time, money and effort, facilitating communication with government, improving the quality of government services and by providing citizens with an equal basis on which to carry out their business with government [8  Five va r i a b le s c o m p r i s e  the performance expectancy construct: perceived usefulness, extrinsic motivation, job-fit, relative advantage, and outcome expectations ecen t  literature has shown that there are similarities between constructs: usefulness and extrinsic motivation [9 usefulness and job-fit [10 use f ul ne s s a n d r e l a t i v e  advantag s ef uln e s s a n d ou tco m e  expectations d j obf it an d ou tco m e  expectations P e rf orm a n ce ex pectan c y h a s been found to be the strongest predictor of intention in previous model tests [7, 10, 13Effort expectancy is the degree of ease associated with the use of the system T h e  UTAUT model identifies three constructs from the eight models which make up the concept of effort expectancy: perceived ease of use, complexity, and ease of us T h e s i m i l a rit y a m o n g t h e s e th ree  variables has also been documented in prior literature 7, 10T h e ef f o rt ex pect an c y co n s tr u c t h a s been found to be significant in both voluntary and mandatory usage contexts, but only in the initial usage of the technology ca m e insi g n i f i ca n t a f ter  periods of extended and sustained usage which is consistent with previous research [7, 10, 14, 16  I t ha s been noted that effort oriented constructs are usually found to be more salient in the early stages of a behavior [7 T h is in itial sta g e is w h e n p r o cess iss u es  are hurdles that need to be overcome by users and later are forgotten, giving way to concerns about specific system features  Social influence is the degree to which an individual perceives that others who are deemed important to them believe that they should use the system l u e n ce i s co m p ris e d of  s u bj ectiv e  norms, social factors, and image. The construct name social norms has been used in prior literature and is similar to subjective norm within the Theory of Reasoned Action a s als o been n o ted th a t the  social influence construct contains the explicit or implicit notion that people s behavior is influenced by the way in which they believe others will view as a result of having used the technology [7  N o ne o f t h e  social influence constructs were found to be significant in voluntary contexts; however, all of them were found to be significant when usage was mandatory T h es e effects in a mandatory context could be attributed to compliance that causes social influence to have a direct effect on intention co n t ras t  s o cial i n f l u e n c e i n  voluntary contexts, as in this study, functions by influencing perceptions about the technology.  Prior egovernment literature has identified social influences as a significant predictor of intention to us  Facilitating conditions was measured by the perception of being able to access required resources as well as to obtain knowledge and the necessary support needed to use an e-file system. It is also influenced by the perception of the technology fitting into the lifestyle of the us Facilitating conditions are comprised of three root constructs perceived behavioral control, facilitating conditions and compatibility. Each of these root constructs is operationalized to include aspects of the technological and/or organizational environment that are meant to remove barriers to us   2.2 Perceived Risk According to the literature, risk perceptions have a significant impact on use intentions e d ris k  is defined as the citizen s belief that he will incur a loss while pursing a given outcome e d ris k i s  composed of behavioral and environmental uncertainty. Behavioral uncertainty exists due to the impersonal nature of the Internet. Since it is such a remote medium, online service providers could behave opportunistically and take advantage of the user Environmental uncertainty arises due to the unpredictable nature of Internet-based technology.  The Internet is beyond the control of the consum In e-commerce perceived risk reduces users  intentions to exchange information and complete transactions T h e literatu re su gg es ts th a t perceiv e d risk has the same effect on e-government adoption [4  In l i g h t o f t h e uncert a i n t i e s t h at su rroun d Internet-based transactions and the potential consequences of not successfully submitting an electronic tax return, we posit that perceived risk will significantly impact one s intention e-file   2.3 Online Trust Definitions of trust are prevalent in the literature.  One frequently utilized definition is that presented by Rotter  o tter s research is referenced in numerous studies of trus  T r u s t is t h e ex pecta n c y t h at  the promise of another can be relied upon. Trust of electronic services has been explored extensively in both e-commerce [19, 24-31 d eg o v e rnm e n t [17 20, 32, 33 s suggested that there are two targets of trust: the entity providing the service and the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


mechanism through which it is provided [3  T r u s t in this study is therefore composed of the traditional view of trust in a specific entity \(trust of the IRS endorsed efile system\well as trust in the reliability of the enabling technology \(trust of the Internet\0   Citizens must trust the government agency providing the electronic service. Acceptance hinges upon the belief that they are capable of providing electronic services effectively. In e-commerce research, this is referred to as reputation. Reputation effects the extent to which buyers believe an organization is honest and concerned about customers 28, 34 35 Reg a rding eg o v e rnm e n t citize n s  will be more likely to use Internet services provided by agencies with a good reputation. Hence, citizen s trust in the e-file provider is imperative to e-file diffusion  2.4 Optimism Bias In addition to trust and risk perceptions, optimism bias may also have an impact on e-file adoption. Optimism bias is defined as a systematic error in perception of an individual s own standing relative to group averages, in which negative events are seen as less likely to occur to the individual than average compared with the group, and positive events as more likely to occur than average compared with the grou  This concept suggests that although people identify situations as risky; they do not think they are as susceptible to the risk as the average person.  Many people believe that their knowledge and abilities minimize their vulnerability to risk. Optimism bias has been explored in several fields. For instance, it has been used to explain why some individuals drive when they are sleepy e s earch s h o w s th a t  m o s t people  agree it is dangerous to drive when tired; however, the same people believe their driving skills make them less likely to have an accident while fatigued than the average driver. Regarding information technology \(IT previous literature found that people were aware of technology related risks.  However, risks of technology were mostly seen as issues of concern for others  Regarding, e-government adoption, prior literature has found that despite perceptions of risk citizens were still willing to adopt e-government services itizens ackn o w l edg e d th e ris k of completing electronic transactions; however, they were willing to use e-government services. Optimism bias may have an impact on this phenomenon. Perhaps citizens who believe they are more competent than the average Internet user are not deterred by the perceived risk of e-government transactions. Optimism bias is tested by asking participants to compare their ability to perform some task to the ability of the average citizen We adapted survey items to assess e-file optimism bias. Participants in this study were asked to rate their ability to perform several tasks \(verify authenticity of tax forms from IRS website, recognize a fake website complete a transaction with IRS using an e-file system etc.\pared to the ave. Internet user s ability  3. Research Model & Hypotheses Based on the aforementioned literature, we posit that citizens will identify e-filing as a risky transaction however, due to online trust factors, optimism bias, and adoption factors, citizens will still be willing to e-fie The following research hypotheses \(see table 1\nd research model are proposed \(see Figure 1  Table 1.  Research hypotheses No Hypothesis  H1 Performance Expectancy will have a significant influence on Intention to Use H2 Effort Expectancy will have a significant influence on Intention to Use H3 Social Influence will have a significant influence on Intention to Use H4 Facilitating Conditions will not have a significant influence on Intention to Use H5 Trust in the e-file system will have a significant influence on Perceived Risk H6 Trust in the Internet will have a significant influence on Perceived Risk H7 Perceived Risk will have a significant negative effect on Intention to Use H8 Optimism Bias will have a significant positive influence on Intention to Use  Figure 1:  Proposed research model   4. Methodology  To obtain participants, an e-mail announcement was sent to MBA students, masters level and upper level accounting students. Each survey participant was provided a link to a Web-based survey, which provided data validation controls ensuring a selection was made for all questions. To encourage participation an mp3 player was randomly given away to a participant. The survey questions were aimed at assessing their perceptions of the dependent and independent variables. Demographic questions were included last on the survey, as fatigue effects would have less influence on them. All surveys were confidential and no identifying personal information was required.   The Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


results were analyzed using structural equation modeling techniques utilizing AMOS 7.0 software  4.1  Sample To date the survey has been completed by 260 respondents. The response rate was actually quite good with 65% responding. 53 % of the participants were female. The sample s age ranged from 18 54; 83% of the sample was in the 18-24 age group.  89% were Caucasians. 93% have completed an e-commerce transaction and 71% have completed an e-government transaction. 34% of the respondents used an e-file system last year.  Data collection is ongoing and updated data will be presented at the conference  4.2 Instrument Development & Validity To investigate users intentions to use an IRS endorsed e-file system, a questionnaire based data gathering technique was ut Qu es t i on s  w e re co m p iled  from validated instruments in the IT adoption literature to represent each construct, and wording was modified to fit the e-filing context being studied.  The resulting items for each construct were then included in a random order on the survey instrument. Effort expectancy, performance expectancy, social influence facilitating conditions, perceived risk, trust of the IRS endorsed e-file system, trust of the Internet, and intention to use questions were measured on a 7-point Likert-type scale, ranging form 1 \(strongly disagree 7 \(strongly agree\mism bias questions were also measured using a 7-point Likert-type scale; however there were anchored by 1 \(much less able than the ave ave. ability\, 7 \(much more able than the ave. Internet user\onstructs showed internal consistency levels exceeding 0.70 \(see table 2 measured by Cronbach s   Table 2.  Reliability analysis Construct Items Reliability  Performance Expectancy \(PE 3 .74 Effort Expectancy EE 3 .73 Social Influence \(SI 3 78 Facilitating Conditions \(FC 2 .73 Perceived Risk \(PR 2 70 Trust of e-file system TOE 3 .87 Trust of the Internet TOI 3 .79 Optimism Bias \(OB 3 84 Intention to Use USE 3 .91  Convergent and discriminant validity were assessed with several tests. Convergent validity was assessed with three tests recommended by Anderson and Gerbing t an dardized f actor loadin g s are indicative of the degree of association between scale items and a latent variable. The loadings were highly significant. Composite reliabilities, similar to Cronbach s alpha, range from 0.70 to 0.91, well exceeding the minimum limit of 0.70. Varianceextracted estimates are measures of the variation explained by the latent variable to random measurement d ran g e d f r o m 0.5 to 0.77  all exceeding the recommended lower limit of   All tests supported convergent validity of the scales  Discriminant validity wa s also assessed with tests recommended by Anderson and Gerbing Item-total correlations for these constructs were examined.  The correlation pattern shows that an item posited to form a given sub-construct has a stronger correlation with the intended construct than another construct, providing evidence of discriminant and convergent validity. An additional discriminant validity criterion is that the variance shared by a construct with its indicators should be greater than the variance shared with other constructs in the model. The average variance extracted is used to assess the variance shared between the construct and its measurement items con s tru c t is considered to be distinct from other constructs if the square root of the average variance extracted for it is greater than its correlations with other latent constructs l l  constructs passed this test; however, there appears to be a high correlation between the UTAUT constructs as can be expected\wever, the item construct correlation indicated that there is appropriate discriminant validity. To further validate that these three constructs are distinct, an exploratory factor analysis was conducted with the 14 items from the five scales. In all cases, items loaded much stronger on their intended construct, further indicating discriminant validity  Additionally, internal consistency of subconstructs was assessed using Cronbach s alpha and Fornell and Larcker s measure of composite reliability  Sco r es of 70 o r ab ov e are acce p table v a lu es of internal consistency, which was the case for all constructs T h u s colle ctiv el y  th ere i s s t rong evidence to suggest that the constructs demonstrate good measurement properties. Convergent and discriminant validity tables are available upon request They are omitted for purposes of space   4.3 Data Analysis The research model was tested using structural equation modeling \(SEM\ techniques using AMOS 7.0 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


software.  SEM is a comprehensive approach to testing hypotheses about relations among observed and latent variables T h e s t atis tical appr oach in corporates  path analysis, factor analysis, and linear regression into a theoretical causal model for analysis of latent constructs and measurable variables, allowing simultaneous estimation of both measurement and structural sub-models   5. Results The overall model fit was adequate, as can be seen from Table 3. The test of overall model fit resulted in a chi-square value of 599 with 270 degrees of freedom and a probability value of less than .001. A significant p-value indicates the absolute fit of the model is less than desirable. However, the chi-square test of absolute model fit is sensitive to sample size and non-normality A better measure of fit is chi-square over degrees of freedom. This ratio for our model is 2.22, which is within the suggested 3 to 1 bracket [24, 47  In addition to the aforementioned ratio, we also report several fit indices. Descriptive fit statistics compare a specified model to a baseline model typically the independence model, in an attempt to demonstrate the superiority of the proposed model. We report the Goodness-of-fit index \(GFI\e adjusted AGFI\d the Comparative Fit Index \(CFI\g and Anderson tif ie s t h e  CFI as one of the most stable and robust fit indices We also report RMSEA \(Root Mean Square Error of Approximation\which measures the discrepancy per degree of freedom The GFI should be at or abov  while the AGFI should be at or above 0.80 [47, 49  The CFI statistic should be at or above 0.90  Finally, RMSEA should be below t h a s also been suggested to represent a very good fit if below the more restrictive threshold of 0.08  Table 3. Model fit summary for research model Fit Index Model Recommendation Chi-square 599.11 n/a Degrees of freedom 270 n/a P <0.001 non significant Chi-square / df 2.22 3.00 GFI .85 >.90 AGFI .80 > .80 Comparative fit index CFI 92 >.90 Root mean square error of approx. \(RMSEA 069 <.08  Having established the adequacy of the model's fit, it s appropriate to examine individual path coefficients This analysis is presented in Table 4. Six of the eight hypotheses are supported. Performance Expectancy H1\fluence \(H3\nd facilitating conditions H4\creased use intentions. Trust of the e-filer decreased users perceived risk of using e-file systems H5\her levels of decrease intention to use an efile system \(H7\mism bias increases use intentions \(H8\ not supported effort expectancy did not significantly influence users intentions to use an e-file system. H6 is not supported.  Higher levels of trust of the Internet did not impact the perceived risk of using e-file systems  Table 4. Path coefficients and hypothesis testing  Path Coef. p-value Supported H1 PE USE 1.022 003 YES H2 EE USE .017 487 NO H3 SI USE .141 092 YES H4 FC USE -.997 061 NO H5 TOE PR 581 00 YES H6 TOI PR 103 208 NO H7 PR USE -.185 002 YES H8 OB USE .758 033 YES p < 0.10, **p < 0.05, ***p<.001 Figure 2 shows the path coefficients for each significant relationship. The signs of the coefficients are all in the predicted direction.  The only predicted paths that are not significant are between effort expectancy and intention to use and trust of the Internet and perceived risk  6. Discussion This study s overall purpose was to investigate users  intention to file there taxes online via an IRS endorsed e-file system. The study s research question focused on building an integrated model that identifies the impact of UTAUT and risk perceptions on U.S. taxpayers  intention to use an IRS endorsed e-file system  Figure 2:  Path coefficients for significant relationships   6.1. Determinants of Use To investigate the research question, we proposed a model of e-file adoption to be investigated. The results provide support for the research model. Seven independent variables were investigated. Performance Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


expectancy, social influence, facilitating conditions and perceived risk were shown to significantly influence intention to use, while trust of e-file system was shown to significantly influence perceived risk  Hypothesis 1 is supported. Performance expectancy was shown to be a significant predictor of usage. This finding was expected. Performance expectancy has also been identified as a significant predictor of use in the IT adoption literatu h e ultimate goal of using an e-file system from the user perspective is whether or not they accomplished their task of filing their taxes  Hypothesis 2 was not supported. Effort expectancy was not shown to be a significant predictor of intention to use in this study. This finding is unexpected, having been identified as a predictor of intention to use in previous IT adoption literatu This result may be indicative of the subject pool, in that they were experienced computer users and collectively were very Internet savvy. This is not to say that an easy to use e-file system is not important. To the contrary, this highlights the necessity for an e-file system to be easy to use in order to accommodate individuals that are not considered to be as computer savvy. This will be imperative to achieve the 80% efile adoption goal set forth by Congress.  This is perhaps the most important aspect of an e-file system in order to initially capture the non-traditional technology user. In this study, the sample was comprised primarily of experienced users of technology, which is a likely explanation as to why effort expectancy was found to be the least significant construct. Prior literature suggests the effort expectancy construct to be salient in the early stages of usage only e cou l d al s o arg u e t h at w i t h th e act  of filing taxes the importance is in conducting the transaction, not in the ease of use  Hypothesis 3 is supported. Social influence was shown to be a significant predictor of intention to use in this study.  This finding is not unexpected having been identified as a predictor of intention to use in previous IT adoption literatu h is fin d i ng provides evidence that indeed referent others opinions influence users feelings about filing their taxes via an IRS endorsed e-file system. Whether it is to go shopping, find a website relevant to one s activities or find a good search engine, we often rely on friends and acquaintances to suggest, why should e-filing be any different  Hypothesis 4 is not supported. Facilitating conditions were indeed found to significantly influence users intentions to e-file.  This finding is actually quite surprising because prior literatu a d f o u n d t h at  when both performance expectancy and effort expectancy are present in the research model, then facilitating conditions will not be a significant predictor of intention to use.  This is quite an interesting finding that extends the UTAUT literature into the e-government domain  Hypothesis 5 is supported. Trust of the e-filer behaves as expected, reducing perceived risk. The significance of trust is evident in an e-file context where users perception of the integrity and competence of the 3 rd party e-filer plays a vital role in e-file adoption. This is due to the fact that filing an individual s taxes is a vital part of their civic duty and it is required by law.  E-filing should be a tool that is used to aid an individual in complying with his annual responsibility of filing an income tax return. Citizen trust of an e-filer is essential to decreasing perceived risk and in turn, increasing usage  Hypothesis 6 was not supported. Trust of the Internet did not significantly influence perceived risk of e-filing. As aforementioned, trust is necessary when risk is present. Higher levels of trust in the Internet, the medium supporting an e-file system, eases citizen reservations.  This trust reduces the level of uncertainty associated with adopting a new, online method of tax submission. It also mitigates fears of potential loss associated with submitting personal information over the Internet. A possible explanation for the nonsignificance could be a result of the subject pool. In this study, the sample was comprised of experienced Internet users, which is a likely explanation as to why trust of the Internet was not found to be significant  These findings suggest that Internet trust is necessary, but trust of the e-filer is more important Trust of the e-filer had significant effect on perceived risk. Previous research suggests there are two targets of trus e en tit y prov idi n g th e ser v ice \(T OE d  the mechanism through which it is provided \(TOI Perhaps in e-government adoption, trust of the entity is more salient than trust of the mechanism. Future research should continue to explore these relationships It is also important to mention that the sample university students, may have had an impact on the results. Future studies should explore the impact of Internet trust using a broader sample  Hypothesis 7 was supported. Higher levels of perceived risk decrease intention to use an e-file system.  Tax filing is an important civic obligation.  Efiling errors and missed deadlines could result in serious penalties, including fines and incarceration Citizens who believe electronic filing increases their susceptibility to these risks are less likely to use the Internet to file their taxes  Hypothesis 8 is also supported. Although perceived risk had a negative impact on intention to use an e-file system, optimism bias had a positive impact on usage intent.  High levels of perceived risk Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


reduce one s intention to use an e-file system However, citizens who believe they are more competent interacting with electronic systems are more likely to use an e-file system despite the risks. These results are promising for e-service adoption research Future studies should explore the role of optimism bias in conjunction with other intention predictors such as Internet self-efficacy \(ISE\he results of this study suggest that beyond confidence in one s ability to use the Internet the belief that one s abilities are better than the average Internet user encourages use of e-services despite risk. This use is motivated by the belief since I am more Internet savvy than the average user, I am not as susceptible to Internet risks as the average user   One interesting finding was that in this study 71% of respondents reported having conducted some kind of e-government transaction previously, however only 34% of respondents said they had e-filed their taxes.  Based on the results of this study, the IRS should attempt to influence citizen perceptions of the usefulness \(performance expectancy\f e-filing in order to increase adoption.  Structural equation modeling techniques allow us to analyze the magnitude of the coefficient for each independent variable According to Table 3, performance expectancy has the highest impact on the intention to use. This suggests the IRS should highlight the advantages of filing taxes electronically, such as quicker returns, as compared to traditional methods. An emphasis on the advantages of e-filing should have a notable impact on citizen adoption. The second most prominent factor is perceived risk. This finding suggests the IRS should highlight characteristics of e-file safeguards designed to minimize risk to e-file users  6.2. Implications for Research This study develops and empirically validates a research model that extends UTAUT by integrating perceived risk, online trust, and optimism bias in an emergent e-government service context. Research on the effects of trust and risk on e-government adoption is still in its infancy. This study introduces optimism bias as a salient predictor of e-government adoption This construct helps to explain why citizens are willing to adopt e-filing, despite the inherent risks associated with Internet transactions. The proposed model increases our understanding of e-service utilization by integrating trust, risk and optimism bias into a parsimonious adoption model. This model can serve as spring board for future research.  Future research should look to investigate the significance of respondent characteristics \(e.g. age, gender  The relevance of optimism bias to e-service adoption raises many interesting research questions For instance, to what extent does optimism bias encourage users to engage in risky behavior? What is the relationship between optimism bias and selfefficacy? Is optimism bias more prevalent for certain users \(novice vs. experienced\enders, cultures or age groups? This study presents optimism bias as an important element of e-government diffusion. The findings highlight the need for further exploration of its influence on the adoption decision   6.3. Implications for Practice The implications of this study are three fold. There are several implications for the government agency \(IRS e-file providers, and citizens.  The study highlights the fact that citizen acceptance of e-filing is significantly influenced by their trust of the e-file provider which they are using to complete and submit their taxes online. Trust of the e-file provider has shown to reduce citizens perceived risk and increase their likelihood of use. This highlights, to both the government agency IRS\ well as the actual e-file providers, the fact that a trusting relationship with the citizen throughout the e-filing process is absolutely critical and the relationship that is built must be nurtured. Trust is an essential element of all transactions, regardless of the medium or the asset being transacted. It s essential for vendors to grow trust online then when it involves citizens tax returns. Once trust is lost, achieving e-file adoption is impossible because the e-file provider has lost its credibility. Prior research has shown that consumers will have hesitation with transacting with an Internet vendor because of uncertainty or the perceived risk of having their personal information stolen Trust is vital in allowing citizens to feel comfortable sharing their income tax information. Therefore citizens perceptions of e-file providers having adequate controls in place are essential  Previous e-commerce research has found that four kinds of factors determine whether people perceive a website vendor as having adequate controls social indicators, personal experience, understanding and communality o cial in dicators ref e r to certification by a trusted 3 rd party, such as SET protocol, which was developed to address requirements like site and user authentication, confidentiality, and data integrity. Practitioners should also consider the use of 3 rd party trust seals, such as Trust-e and WebTrust, which address privacy concerns   Regarding personal experience, e-filer providers need to make sure citizens have a positive experience with their software. To improve citizens understanding of the security features in place practitioners should inform citizens of the safety and reliability of their efiling software/websites. Communality is the assumption by users that because of provided security features they are protected from fraud because other Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


members of their community \(other e-filing citizens rely on them for protection as well.  In this regard practitioners should advertise their sites as safe and explain the safety measures utilized.  E-file providers should also emphasize how many patrons have successfully used their product  The research presented in this paper demonstrates the importance of trust for the acceptance of U.S. e-filing. There has been an enormous amount of research done in the e-commerce setting that has focused on system performance and utilization as determinants to adoption.  However, in an e-filing context the concept of trust will play a vital role in adoption. As a result, practitioners should consider trust issues when promoting their software packages  There are numerous providers of e-file software that exist presently in the U.S. As stated above these software vendors, should emphasize the reliability and security of their systems to potential customers. E-filers should focus a significant percent of their marketing efforts on advertising security features. Perhaps, e-filers could even provide free virus protection or firewall software with each purchase  The implications of this study are also very relevant to the citizen e-filers themselves.  This study has shown that in fact the effects of optimism bias do in deed exist presently with current and potential citizen e-filers.  Citizens need to be aware of this bias and take the appropriate measures to ensure that indeed the e-file provider is a trustworthy vendor and that the appropriate controls are in place to ensure the privacy of their sensitive personal income tax records   6.4. Limitations There are some limitations to this study that should be noted.  The most notable is the diversity of the subjects evaluated.  While valid results were produced from testing, there was limited diversity in the sample Future research should attempt to validate the findings of this study by testing a more diverse array of survey participants within the same context to increase the variance on some variable dimensions. Another limitation is that the data for this study was collected through surveys, therefore allowing a potential of selfreport bias from respondents. Although the model explains 73% of the variance in intention to use, it does not include several adoption constructs explored in the literature. Future studies could include trust and selfefficacy for a more comprehensive view of the phenomenon  7. Conclusion Acknowledging the limitations of this study, this research has still made several significant contributions to the field of information systems research. This study is a first step towards understanding the role of UTAUT and optimism bias on e-file system adoption In particular, it shows that the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology in conjunction with risk perceptions explain a significant percent of the variance in intention to use.  It introduces optimism bias as a viable explanation for the adoption of electronic services despite the inherent risks of remote transactions. It also serves as a building block for future studies by providing a parsimonious, yet powerful tool for predicting use intentions  8. References 1. IRS IRS e-Strategy for Growth 2004 2. Economist, T The Good, Bad, and the Inevitable in A Special Report on Government and Technology 2008 3. Fletcher, P.D E-file: Electronic tax administration in the United States 2002 4 Fu, J.R., C.K. Farn, and W.P. Chao Acceptance of electronic tax filing: A study of taxpayer intentions  Information & Management, 2006 43 p. 109-126 5 VanDenburgh, W.M. and P.J. Harmelink The IRS's lack of support for Direct, Free E-Filing Tax Notes 2006 112 p. 171-182 6. Service, I.R IRS e-file for Individuals 2008 7 Venkatesh, V., M.G. Morris, and G.B. Davis User Acceptance of Information Technology: Toward a Unified View MIS Quarterly, 2003 27 3\. 425-478 8 Al Awadhi, S. and A. Morris The Use of the UTAUT Model in the Adoption of E-government Services in Kuwait in Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2008. Kona, Hawaii 9. Davis, F.D Perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, and user acceptance of information technology  MIS Quarterly, 1989 13 3\: p. 319-340 10 Thompson, R., C. Higgins, and J. Howell Personal computing:  toward a conceptual model of utilization  MIS Quarterly, 1991 15 1\: p. 124-143 11 Moore, G. and I. Benbasat Development of an instrument to measure the perceptions of adopting an information technology innovation Information Systems Research, 1991 2 3\: p. 192-222 12 Plouffe, C.R., S.J. Hulland, and M. Vandenbosch Research report: Richness versus parsimony in modeling technology adoption decisions-Understanding merchant adoption of a smart cardbased payment system Information Systems Research 2001 12 2\: p. 208-222 13 Compeau, D.R. and C.A. Higgins Computer Selfefficacy: Development of a Measure and Initial Test  MIS Quarterly, 1995 19 2\: p. 189-211 14 Agarwal, R. and J. Prasad Are individual differences germane to acceptance of new info. technologies  Decision Sciences, 1999 30 2\: p. 361-391 15. Venkatesh, V Determinants of Perceived Ease of Use Integrating Control, Intrinsic Motivation, and Emotion into the Technology Acceptance Model Information Systems Research, 2000 11 4\: p. 342-365 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


16 Thompson, R., C. Higgins, and J. Howell Influence of experience on personal computer utilization: Testing a conceptual model Journal of Management Information Systems, 1994 11 1\: p. 167-187 17 Warkentin, M., et al Encouraging citizen adoption of e-government by building trust Electronic Markets The International Journal of Electronic Commerce Business Media, 2002 12 3\: p. 157-162 18 Warkentin, M. and D. Gefen Encouraging citizen adoption of e-government by building trust Electronic Markets, 2002 12 3\: p. 157-162 19. Pavlou, P Consumer Acceptance of Electronic Commerce: Integrating Trust and Risk with the Technology Acceptance Model International Journal of Electronic Commerce, 2003 7 p. 69-103 20 Carter, L. and F. Belanger The Utilization of Egovernment Services: Citizen Trust, Innovation and Acceptance Factors Information Systems Journal 2005 15 1\5 21. Rotter, J New Scale for Measurement of Interpersonal Trust Journal of Personality, 1967 35 p. 651-665 22 Mayer, R.C., J.H. Davis, and F.D. Schoorman An integrative model of organizational trust Academy of Management Review, 1995 20 3\709-734 23. Zucker, L.G Production of trust: Institutional sources of economic structure Research in Organizational Behavior, 1986 8 p. 53-111 24. Gefen, D E-commerce: The Role of Familiarity and Trust Omega: The International Journal of Management Science, 2000 28 6\725-737 25. Gefen, D Reflections on the Dimensions of Trust and Trustworthiness among Online Consumers The DATA BASE for Advances in IS, 2002 33 3\: p. 38-53 26 Gefen, D., E. Karahanna, and D.W. Straub Trust and TAM in Online Shopping: An Integrated Model MIS Quarterly, 2003 27 1\ p. 51-90 27 Gefen, D. and D.W. Straub Consumer Trust in B2C eCommerce and the Importance of Social Presence Experiments in e-Products and e-Services Omega: The International Journal of Management Science, 2004 32 6\. 407-424 28 Jarvenpaa, S.L., N. Tractinsky, and M. Vitale Consumer Trust In An Internet Store Information Technology and Management, 2000 1 1\: p. 45-71 29 McKnight, D.H., V. Choudhury, and C. Kacmar Developing and Validating Trust Measures for ECommerce: An Integrative Approach Information Systems Research, 2002 13 3\: p. 334-359 30 Tan, Y.H. and W. Theon Toward a generic model of trust for electronic commerce International Journal of Electronic Commerce, 2001 5 2\: p. 61-74 31 Van Slyke, C., F. Belanger, and C.L. Comunale Factors Influencing the Adoption of Web-Based Shopping: The Impact of Trust Database for Advances in Information Systems, 2004 35 2\. 32-49 32 Gefen, D., et al Cultural diversity and trust in IT adoption: a comparison of potential e-Voters in the USA and South Africa Journal of Global Information Management, 2002 13 1\: p. 54-78 33 Welch, E.W., C.C. Hinnant, and M.J. Moon Linking Citizen Satisfaction with E-Government and Trust in Government Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory, 2005 15 3\371-391 34 Doney, P.M. and J.P. Cannon An Examination of the Nature of Trust in Buyer-Seller Relationships Journal of Marketing, 1997 61 April\51 35 Chiles, T.H. and J.F. McMackin Integrating variable risk preferences, trust, and transaction cost economics  Academy of Management Review, 1996 21 p. 73-99 36 Ruyter, K.D., M. Wetzels, and M. Kleijnen Customer adoption of eservice: An experimental study  International Journal of Service Industry Management 2001 12 2\: p. 184-207 37 Smith, J.B. and D.W. Barclay The effects of organizational differences and trust on the effectiveness of selling partner relationships Journal of Marketing 1997 61 1\2 38. Weinstein, N.D Optimistic Bias about personal risks  Science, 1980 246 p. 1232-1233 39. Dejoy, D The Optimism Bias and Traffic Accident Risk Perception Accident Analysis and Prevention 1989 21 4\: p. 333-340 40 Sjoberg, L. and J. Fromm Information Technology Risks as Seen by the Public Risk Analysis, 2001 21 3\. 427-441 41. Nunnally, J.C Psychometric Theory 1978, New York McGraw-Hill 42 Anderson, J.C. and D.W. Gerbing Structural Equation Modeling in Practice:  A Review and Recommended Two-Step Approach Psychological Bulletin 1988 103 3\: p. 411-423 43 Netemeyer, R.G., M.W. Johnston, and S. Burton Analysis of Role Conflict and Role Ambiguity in a Structural Equations Framework Journal of Applied Psychology, 1990 75 2\: p. 148-157 44 Fornell, C. and D.F. Larcker Evaluating structural equation models with unobservable variables and measurement error Journal of Marketing Research 1981 18 1\50 45 Barclay, D.W. and J.B. Smith The effects of organizational differences and trust on the effectiveness of selling partner relationships Journal of Marketing 1997 61 1\1 46. Hoyle, R.H The Structural Equation Modeling Approach: Basic Concepts and Fundamental Issues  1995, Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage 47 Chin, W.W. and P.A. Todd On the use, usefulness, and ease of use of structural equation modeling in MIS research: A note of caution MIS Quarterly, 1995 19 2\. 237-246 48 Steiger, J.H. and J.C. Lind Statistically-based tests for the number of common factors in Annual Spring Meeting of the Psychometric Society 1980. Iowa City 49 Segars, A.H. and V. Grover Re-examining perceived ease of use and usefulness: A confirmatory factor analysis MIS Quarterly, 1993 17 4\. 517-525 50 Browne, M.W. and R. Cudeck Alternative Ways of Assessing Model Fit 1993 51 Suh, B. and I. Han The Impact of Customer Trust and Perception of Security Control on the Acceptance of Electronic Commerce International Journal of Electronic Commerce, 2003 7 3\: p. 135-161  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


11 directly through displays or audio output replacing paper methods Most procedures have been migrated to electronic displays for ISS already The picture in Figure 5 is a photo mockup showing flight engineer Vladimir N Dezhurov using a virtual reality HMD aboard the International Space Station Note the presence of copious amounts of paper procedures posted throughout the spacecraft and the large amount of wiring floating in the air waiting to ensnare hapless crewmembers Since radio communication with the ground will be subject to long delays about 40 minute light-speed round trip transit time all the information necessary for problem solving has to be on board the spacecraft Advanced search techniques will allow the crew to find the relevant documentation for any problem or sub-system in the spacecraft The crewmember will be able to request information using spoken commands and flexible dialogue The intelligent agent systems would be designed to try to diagnose problems and provide possible remedies because the spacecraft systems may be too complicated for crewmembers to understand in detail Of course there will always be unforeseen problems which will require human reasoning and diagnosis which can be improved by the proper presentation of relevant information Virtual User Interface Design The dramatic reorganization of crewed spacecraft made possible by the new computing and communication hardware and user-interface technologies requires appropriate design Specific analyses need to be conducted to validate the savings and document the effect on the panoply of new risks and issues raised by adoption of virtual interfaces based on body worn sensors and displays It is important to note that similar claims have been made about the underlying technology for decades first when such body referenced computer displays were conceived in the 1960\325s and later when the aerospace applications were more specifically detailed in the mid 1980\325s At those time the body position tracking systems visual displays systems interactive 3D computer rendering and kinematic and dynamic computer simulations were not even approaching performance levels that would be practical  8  These technical barriers have largely been broken and the principle remaining issues concern concepts of operations and system engineering 9  The virtualization of the user interface for cockpits and control centers raises a number of significant design issues because the very nature of such interfaces removes many of the sensory cues associated with conventional user-computer interaction like the sound and feel of fingers hitting a keyboard and the kinesthetic position cues associated with mouse use These ancillary cues are important for establishing control contexts and are very important to keep users aware of 322where\323 they are in their task or software operation Fortunately the same display techniques that interfere with crew awareness can be used to enhance it by introducing naturalistic sensory feedback for inputs to virtual controls For example a switch closure on a visually presented virtual control panel can be confirmed by an auditory click as well as a visual change in color If necessary miniaturized tactile displays built into clothing or gloves can also be used to add haptic feedback The disseminated user-interface design should be guided by some of the rules for such systems proposed by Don Norman 1 0  1  Be predictable 2  Keep things as simple as possible 3  Provide good conceptual models 4  Provide rich complex and natural signals 5  Make the output understandable provide reasons for actions 6  Provide continual awareness reassurance of intended operation without annoyance 7  Exploit natural mappings of user input to environmental effects mappings The first two rules incorporate a realization that unnecessary complexity in an interface is definitely a defect Therefore the system\325s expectation of user expertise needs to be indicated to the user to avoid affecting predictability The remaining admonitions all relate to providing good conceptual cognitive models for system navigation These support the predictability of the system since one of the features of a 322good\323 conceptual model is that it leads to accurate expectations of system behavior These accurate expectations are supported by the provision of rich complex, natural feedback recommendation four This kind of feedback supports the understandability of the interface recommendation five The last recommendation to use natural mapping refers to metaphorical relationships between patterns of user inputs and systems responses and other analogous relationships in the real world When we wish to modify something on our right we typically move our hands towards our right The guidelines outlined above must be made more concrete for specific designs but their consideration will generally improve virtual user interfaces 5. I NTELLIGENT A GENTS A complementary concept to mobile virtual HSI for spacecraft command and control is the use of 322intelligent agents\323 to act as avatars for human interaction actors for autonomous operations and as experts for knowledge management The large amount of computing provided by MAA aboard a spacecraft can be comparable to an Enterprise IT system On a long duration mission to the moon or Mars this capability may significantly improve the abilities of the limited crew complement to perform vehicle and mission operations activities and can lead the way to more autonomous, capable and reliable human spacecraft 


12 Figure 6 Spoken Dialogue Interaction Figure 6 Spoken Dialogue Interaction NASA Ames Research Center has developed prototypes for intelligent agents applied to mixed human-robotic teams and to planetary habitats  1 1  These software systems were supported by facile mobile information systems and simulations of planetary surface surveys were conducted in analog environments  1 2  The intelligent agents implemented in the Belief-Desire-Intent language Brahms responded to questions like 322Where am I?\323 322What is the current activity What is the voltage from the generator?\323 and other queries of information available in the distributed IT system The agents would also initiate commands to the robots 322Robot take a picture of me\323 322Robot go to location 1 GPS coordinates 311\323 etc Note how useful these types of human to agent interactions could be aboard a spacecraft and how they mimic natural interactions between people Figure 6 shows a picture of an astronaut performing payload operations using interactive spoken dialogue interaction with a human on Earth However aboard a future transit vehicle this may well be an intelligent agent particularly when light speed delays prevent real-time communication with Earth Intelligent agents will be in effect the extra crew members needed to run and maintain the spacecraft A crew of 3-5 persons may not be able to operate a complicated spacecraft without the support of virtual crew members capable of working 24/7 Many functions can be handled or augmented by these virtual assistants Spacecraft monitoring maintenance and repair operations are obvious candidates given the amount of work required on these tasks Activities requiring specialized knowledge could be facilitated such as medical treatment by giving the human crewmember help in executing procedures for diagnosis and treatment The following are brief summaries of selected agent functions proposed for particular activities Repair Agent Intelligent agents can monitor subsystems and follow trends in operating parameters which might signal impending problems and schedule maintenance before the system fails or loses significant function or performance The following subsystems will need to be monitored continuously 1 life support 2 navigation 3 propulsion 4 communication 5 consumables 6 power 7 radiation shielding and 8 structural integrity Most repairs have complicated diagnostic and replacement procedures to be followed along with needed diagrams and technical information The spoken dialogue system can read out the procedure steps one by one and provide the necessary diagrams and pictures All of this material needs to be on the spacecraft so that no interaction with the ground is necessary to proceed with the repair A set of intelligent repair agents can significantly reduce the time to diagnose and complete a repair while improving the quality of the repair Medical Agent The crew is a vital part of the spacecraft and their health is as important to the success of the mission as the health of the vehicle The health of the crew will be monitored continuously both during exercise and normal activities This monitoring will have to be unobtrusive because of the long duration of the mission and this requirement is nicely met using body-worn sensors Sensor-bearing vests or shirts have been suggested as ways of measuring heart rate body temperature EKG and arterial oxygen These could be integrated with the sensors used to monitor location and body position for virtual HSI These sensors provide information wirelessly to the spacecraft medical intelligent agent The agents would keep track of all of the crew physiological data and analyze it for signs of medical problems in each crew member before they became serious Often trends in medical data are very valuable for finding conditions that may become serious in the future During medical emergencies like injuries or breathing difficulties the medical agent would interact with the care giving crew member to assist in diagnosis and treatment Much work has been done in the past to develop diagnostic decision trees which allow the system and caregiver to make a rapid diagnosis Since the medical agent would already have many of the vital signs it could quickly eliminate diagnosis sub trees that do not match the measured symptoms The agent could also communicate with earthbased flight surgeons for consultation saving time during serious medical conditions Crew Personal Agent Each crew member would have an intelligent agent to keep track of schedules exercise entertainment and correspondence with the earth On the long trip to Mars it will be necessary to keep up a rigorous exercise program Since the whole crew will be dependent on a limited number of exercise machines it will be necessary to schedule these machines between the whole crew The agent system will dynamically allocate exercise times and update the schedule in case of breakdowns and other delays Scheduling and coordination can be optimized and the results of this optimization sent to the Crew Personal Agent for execution by guiding the crewmember through 


13 scheduled activities This same concept can be applied to any constrained resources Communication with the ground will be delayed for up to 40 minutes so a system which keeps track of crew questions and answers received from Mission Control will be very important When the answer to a question arrives 2 days after the initial query it will necessary to pair the query and answer automatically to save crew time and jog their memory These communications will be in speech and text/picture form and will have to be indexed and tracked 6. T ECHNOLOGY D EVELOPMENT Implementing the MAA and associated HSI concepts will require investments in improving computer technology both hardware and software Fortunately very little needs to be invented since most components have either commercial or developmental predecessors Significant development of radiation-hardened avionics computing nodes would be needed Power consumption would have to be dramatically reduced Intelligent sensor modules would need to be developed all minimizing installed cost Sensor modules would need to be very small incorporating multiple sensing elements processor and network interface The MAA relies on high-performance computing and networks which can function at many times the rate needed for control This large excess of performance is used for implementing the voting and coherency algorithms needed for effective coordination Fortunately modern semiconductor technology provides the means to implement all of these features In addition to further development of low-power radiation tolerant electronics significant advances in avionics packaging would be required For example such avionics modules could not be liquid or conduction cooled rather thermal control would have to be passive Given the fact that no wired interfaces penetrate from the exterior the use of completely sealed packages would be possible which can increase reliability and interchangeability Network technology has progressed significantly with the adoption of AFDX time-deterministic Ethernet for critical aerospace control applications  1 3  This is being used in the latest Airbus and Boeing passenger aircraft Timetriggered Ethernet is a similar alternative Each method relies on issuing packets on a timed basis with sufficient gaps in between packets to allow other time-critical packets to be interleaved which produces bounded latency  1 4  Wireless network technology has similarly progressed but to date wireless time-deterministic networks have not been developed. Mesh routing software would be needed Today several products are available that perform mesh routing at either the MAC Zigbee or TCP/IP level Tropos Mobile IP routing has been flown aboard satellites in flight tests The biggest hurdle for implementation and biggest risk is the development of the necessary system management algorithms and software architectures needed for massively redundant peer-to-peer avionics systems Although much of the critical control for MAA can be adapted from IMA the larger number of possible redundancy solutions means that better means of maintaining coherency and failover would be needed Model-based system management and diagnostics could be useful in this area The system is reconfigured according to multiple constraints synthesized from current system state Planning algorithms could be used to determine the optimal process for reconfiguring such complex redundant systems Power transmission using inductive coupling is simply a matter of producing the correct magnetic interfaces Semiconductor technology providing the high-frequency driving current is used in every switching power supply 320 not an issue for technology development However providing an alternative power source maybe more difficult in that radiative schemes for power transmission may be difficult to apply internal to a spacecraft for humans Tripleredundant power distribution schemes are possible where each module couples with more than one distribution circuit Again low power electronics enables battery backup devices to be small and lowers the performance needed from wireless power transmission methods There are a number of building block technologies needed for the virtual disseminated interfaces we are proposing The various sensory display devices that physically present the information to the users are a real challenge These are devices such as miniature flat panel displays and audio interfaces for head mounted systems Recent advances in head mounted display technology benefiting from new OLED displays and redundant optical tracking systems make possible development of virtual cockpits based on body and head mounted displays that can present cockpit virtual images laid out within a user\325s 4   steradian field of regard Such displays can replace the much heavier powerhungry flat panel displays of conventional control consoles with bright high-resolution full color lightweight displays that only draw on the order of a few watts Other types of sensors such as miniature medical sensors currently exist and can be adapted to this use Array microphones can focus upon the speech of a crew member in a given known location The corresponding audio output function can be implemented using surround sound techniques commonly used for home theater Haptic sensors for interpreting motion and gestures are now available, but the feedback elements are lagging. Other types of user input devices are emerging and may be useful The main challenge for HSI is not the device development but rather the information and sensor fusion required for providing a coherent yet dynamic and flexible user interface The interface and display-rendering software that translates all the vehicle sensor and state readings into human sensory information and then encodes human voice and action responses into commands the spacecraft can use 


14 is particularly challenging It is noteworthy that these translations may well be haptic and audible as well as visual A final building block for the disseminated user interface is the development of advanced packaging techniques for assembly of the HSI components into sufficiently small packages that may be unobtrusively introduced into crew quarters and crew clothing so that their use requires little or no special setup before operation Power sources and lightweight batteries would be needed as well compatible with the spacecraft environment Changing your shirt may also change your batteries for the wearable sensors Intelligent agents are a focus for many of the activities of the Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Several demonstrations of early prototypes have been performed so this area is considered one for development rather than just research 7. C ONCLUSIONS Inflatable spacecraft represent a revolutionary way of creating viable living and operations volume for humans engaged in exploration missions providing increased usable volume with reduced launch mass and volume They can potentially increase resistance to micrometeorite and space radiation hazards over conventional aluminum structures while being more flexible for reconfiguration from transit to habitat modes Challenges maintaining avionics operation during dynamic changes from stowed to deployed state during inflation providing feedthroughs between the inner and outer surface of the pressure vessel and for monitoring the health of the inflatable fabric itself can be met by applying innovations in the areas of avionics architecture intelligent sensors, human-system interfaces and spacecraft information interaction, currently in the research and development phase These innovations leverage the capabilities of each other to provide new concepts for the operation of long duration human spacecraft MAA is based on a massively redundant peer-to-peer construct providing much higher fault tolerance and higher computational performance Intelligent sensors have the potential for dramatically reducing sensor failures and inaccuracies again by employing many redundant elements with internal cross-checking of function and accuracy MAA directly supports roaming mobile HSI and its excess computational power can be used for hosting intelligent agent technology for information management and access The use of wireless networks and wireless power distribution directly supports inflatable spacecraft by eliminating inflexible cables and feedthroughs across the pressure vessel An innovative operations concept for transit vehicle piloting operation and maintenance was outlined incorporating these technologies providing virtual cockpits for vehicle operation, augmented reality for complex support activities and unobtrusive interfaces for common activities Design guidelines for constructing such HSI systems were presented consistent with current human factors practice The use of intelligent agents nicely complements advanced HSI allowing natural interaction between crew and spacecraft systems and payloads, effectively increasing crew size Technology for implementing proof-of-concept prototypes already exists Significant improvement in performance power consumption size mass and cost are required for all elements but are anticipated to be achieved using modern semiconductor advances Packaging and hardening for the space environment will remain serious challenges Critical advances in software architecture and algorithms will be needed to integrate these widely dispersed assets into a coherent system capable of maintain function despite failures and changing mission conditions In many ways the system architecture described is a good host for developing and testing many advanced software concepts Agent-based design in general may help coordinate many of the loosely-coupled modules and functions identified Successful implementation of this architecture and complementary features can lead to more robust inflatable spacecraft, increasing the performance and capabilities of the spacecraft and its crew during the conduct of exploration missions to the moon and Mars 


15 R EFERENCES  1  h t t p    w w w  b i g e l o w a e r o s p a c e  c o m  o u t _ t h e r e   2  h t t p    s p a c e f l i g h t  n a s a  g o v  h i s t o r y  s t a t i o n  t r a n s h a b  3  322 A v i o n i c s  A p p l i c a t i o n  S o f t w a r e  S t a n d a r d  I n t e r f a c e 323  A R I N C  6 5 3  S t a n d a r d   2 0 0 6  A R I N C  6 5 3  S t a n d a r d  4  I E E E  S t d  1 4 5 1  1 1 9 9 9  I E E E  S t a n d a r d  f o r  a  S m a r t T r a n s d u c e r  I n t e r f a c e  f o r  S e n s o r s  a n d  A c t u a t o r s  320  N e t w o r k C a p a b l e  A p p l i c a t i o n  P r o c e s s o r  I n f o r m a t i o n  M o d e l  I n s t r u m e n t a t i o n  a n d  M e a s u r e m e n t  S o c i e t y   T C 9  I n s t i t u t e  o f  E l e c t r i c a l  a n d  E l e c t r o n i c  E n g i n e e r s   N e w Y o r k   N Y  1 0 0 1 6 5 9 9 7   S H 9 4 7 6 7   A p r i l  1 8   2 0 0 0   5  I E E E  S t d  1 4 5 1  2 1 9 9 7  I E E E  S t a n d a r d  f o r  a  S m a r t T r a n s d u c e r  I n t e r f a c e  f o r  S e n s o r s  a n d  A c t u a t o r s  320 T r a n s d u c e r  t o  M i c r o p r o c e s s o r  C o m m u n i c a t i o n  P r o t o c o l s a n d  T r a n s d u c e r  E l e c t r o n i c  D a t a  S h e e t   T E D S   f o r m a t s  I n s t r u m e n t a t i o n  a n d  M e a s u r e m e n t  S o c i e t y   T C 9  I n s t i t u t e  o f  E l e c t r i c a l  a n d  E l e c t r o n i c  E n g i n e e r s   N e w Y o r k   N Y  1 0 0 1 6 5 9 9 7   S H 9 4 5 6 6   S e p t e m b e r  2 5   1 9 9 8   6  F e r n a n d o  F i g u e r o a   R a n d y  H o l l a n d   J o h n  S c h m a l z e l   D a n D u n c a v a g e   R i c k  A l e n a   A l a n  C r o c k e r   322 I S H M I m p l e m e n t a t i o n  f o r  C o n s t e l l a t i o n  S y s t e m s  323  A I A A  2 0 0 6 4 4 1 0   4 2 n d  A I A A  A S M E  S A E  A S E E  J o i n t  P r o p u l s i o n C o n f e r e n c e    E x h i b i t   J u l y  9 1 2   2 0 0 6   S a c r a m e n t o C o n v e n t i o n  C e n t e r   S a c r a m e n t o   C A   7  H i e r o n y m u s   J   a n d  D o w d i n g   J     C l a r i s s a  S p o k e n D i a l o g u e  S y s t e m    A C T A  A s t r o n a u t i c a   2 0 0 6   8  F i s h e r   S   S    M c G r e e v y   M    H u m p h r i e s   J     R o b i n e t t  W    1 9 8 6    V i r t u a l  E n v i r o n m e n t  D i s p l a y  S y s t e m   A C M 1 9 8 6  W o r k s h o p  o n  3 D  I n t e r a c t i v e  G r a p h i c s   C h a p e l  H i l l  N o r t h  C a r o l i n a    2 3 2 4  O c t o b e r  1 9 8 6   A C M   p p   7 7 8 7   9  B r o o k s   F   B   J r    1 9 9 9   W h a t 325 s  r e a l  a b o u t  v i r t u a l  r e a l i t y  I E E E   C o m p u t e r  G r a p h i c s  a n d  A p p l i c a t i o n s   1 9    1 6 2 7   1 0  N o r m a n   D o n a l d  A    2 0 0 7   T h e  d e s i g n  o f  f u t u r e  t h i n g s  B a s i c  B o o k s   N e w  Y o r k   1 1  C l a n c e y   W  J   S i e r h u i s   M    A l e n a   R    C r a w f o r d   S   D o w d i n g    J    G r a h a m   J    K a s k i r i s   C    T y r e e   K   S    a n d v a n H o o f   R    2 0 0 4   M o b i l e  A g e n t s   A  d i s t r i b u t e d  v o i c e c o m m a n d e d  s e n s o r y  a n d  r o b o t i c  s y s t e m  f o r s u r f a c e  E V A  a s s i s t a n c e   I n  R   B   M a l l a  a n d  A   M a j i  e d s    E n g i n e e r i n g   C o n s t r u c t i o n    a n d  O p e r a t i o n s  i n C h a l l e n g i n g  E n v i r o n m e n t s   E a r t h  a n d  S p a c e  2 0 0 4   H o u s t o n   A S C E   p p   8 5 9 2  1 2  A l e n a  R    O s s e n f o r t  J    L e e  C    W a l k e r  E    S t o n e  T   322 D e s i g n  o f  H y b r i d  M o b i l e  C o m m u n i c a t i o n  N e t w o r k s  f o r P l a n e t a r y  E x p l o r a t i o n 323  I E E E  A e r o s p a c e  C o n f e r e n c e  2 0 0 4  B i g  S k y   M T   1 3  R i c h a r d  L   A l e n a   J o h n  P   O s s e n f o r t  I V   K e n n e t h  I  L a w s   A n d r e  G o f o r t h  322 C o m m u n i c a t i o n s  f o r  I n t e g r a t e d M o d u l a r  A v i o n i c s 323  I E E E  A e r o s p a c e  C o n f e r e n c e  2 0 0 7  B i g  S k y  M T   1 4  322 A i r c r a f t  D a t a  N e t w o r k  323  A R I N C  6 6 4  S t a n d a r d D o c u m e n t   2 0 0 2  B IOGRAPHY Richard L Alena is a Computer Engineer in the Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Mr Alena is currently working on the Mission Operations System for the LCROSS Lunar mission and on avionics architecture for a lander vehicle for human lunar missions He was the co-lead for the Advanced Diagnostic Systems for International Space Station ISS Project developing model-based diagnostic tools for space operations. He was the chief architect of a flight experiment conducted aboard Shuttle and Mir using laptop computers personal digital assistants and servers in a wireless network for the ISS He was also the technical lead for the Databus Analysis Tool for International Space Station on-orbit diagnosis He was group lead for Intelligent Mobile Technologies developing planetary exploration systems for field simulations Mr Alena holds an M.S in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California Berkeley He is the winner of the NASA Silver Snoopy Award in 2002 a NASA Group Achievement Award in 1998 for his work on the ISS Phase 1 Program Team and a Space Flight Awareness Award in 1997 Stephen R Ellis  headed the Advanced Displays and Spatial perception Laboratory at the NASA Ames Research Center between September 1989 and March 2006 and is currently a member of this group He received a Ph.D 1974 from McGill University in Psychology after receiving a A.B in Behavioral Science from U.C Berkeley He has had postdoctoral fellowships in Physiological Optics at Brown University and at U.C Berkeley  He has published on the topic of presentation and user interaction with spatial information in 170 journal publications and formal reports and has been in the forefront of the introduction of perspective and 3D displays into aerospace user interfaces In particular he has worked recently on kinesthetic techniques to improve cursor and manipulator control under difficult display control coordinate mappings He has served on the editorial boards of Presence  and Human Factors  and 


16 has edited a book Pictorial communication in virtual and real environments concerning the geometric and dynamics aspects of human interface to systems using spatial data.\(Taylor and Francis London 2nd Ed  1993 He was awarded a University Medal from Kyushu Sangyo University in Japan in 1992 Dougal Maclise  is currently the group lead for the ISHM Technology Maturation Group within the Intelligent Systems Division at Ames Research Center He has a Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering and a Masters degree in BioMedical Engineering Over the fifteen years that he has worked at NASA he has managed a wide variety of projects such as animal physiology experiment payloads for the Shuttle the consolidation of seven resource tracking databases a real-time imaging payload for the SolarPowered Pathfinder UAV and the development of the Advanced Diagnostics and Prognostics Testbed For the last five years he has focused on the systems engineering and application aspects of Integrated Systems Health Management while working on the Second Generation Reusable Launch Vehicle Orbital Space Plane and Next Generation Launch Technology projects.  He is currently the Information Systems lead for the Lunar Lander Project J a m e s  H i e r o n y m u s  i s U S R A  S e n i o r  S c i e n t i s t  i n t h e  C o l l a b o r a t i v e  a n d A s s i s t i v e  S y s t e m s   C A S  T e c h n i c a l  A r e a  w i t h i n  t h e I n t e l l i g e n t  S y s t e m s  D i v i s i o n a t  N A S A  A m e s    He was technical lead for the NASA team which developed the Clarissa spoken dialogue system that talks astronauts through executing complex procedures which has been installed for testing on the International Space Station  He worked with John Dowding on the EVITA EVA Intelligent Talking Assistants spoken dialogue system for lunar space suits The EVITA system forms a front end for the Mobile Agents system which keeps track of all of the assets on a lunar exploration mission assists in scheduling navigation sample gathering and commands robots H i s  P h D  i s  f r o m C o r n e l l  U n i v e r s i t y   m a s t e r s  d e g r e e  f r o m  U  C a l  S a n  D i e g o  a n d  B  S   f r o m  t h e  U n i v e r s i t y  o f  M i c h i g a n    H e  w a s  a  P o s t D o c  a t  t h e  S t a n f o r d  A I  L a b  w o r k i n g  o n  a u t o m a t i c  s p e e c h r e c o g n i t i o n    H e  h e l p e d  s t a r t  t h e  s p e e c h  l a b o r a t o r y  a t  N I S T  w a s  a  l i n g u i s t i c s  p r o f e s s o r  a t  U   o f  E d i n b u r g h  i n  t h e  C e n t r e f o r  S p e e c h  T e c h n o l o g y  R e s e a r c h   a  M e m b e r  o f  T e c h n i c a l  S t a f f i n  t h e  L i n g u i s t i c s  a n d  S p o k e n  D i a l o g u e  S y s t e m s  D e p a r t m e n t s a t  B e l l  L a b s   M u r r a y  H i l l   a n d  a Visiting Professor at the University of Gothenburg He joined NASA Ames in late 2000 


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


