The Effect of Using a Semantic Wiki for Metadata Management A Controlled Experiment   Kai M. H¸ner University of St  Gallen Institute of Information Management kai.huener@unisg.ch Boris Otto University of St  Gallen Institute of Information Management boris.otto@unisg.ch   Abstract A coherent and consistent understanding of corporate data is an important factor for effective management of 
diversified companies and implies a need for companywide unambiguous data definitions. Inspired by the success of Wikipedia, wiki software has become a broadly discussed alternative for corporate metadata management. However, in contrast to the performance and sustainability of wikis in general, benefits of using semantic wikis have not been investigated sufficiently The paper at hand presents results of a controlled experiment that investigates effects of using a semantic wiki for metadata management in comparison to a classical wiki. Considering threats to validity, the analysis \(i.e. 74 subjects using both a classical and a 
semantic wiki\hows that the semantic wiki is superior to the classical variant regarding information retrieval tasks. At the same time, the results indicate that more effort is needed to build up the semantically annotated wiki content in the semantic wiki   1. Introduction  1.1. Corporate metadata management  Effective management of diversified companies implies coherent and consistent understanding of corporate data. Logistics processe s harmonized on a global 
level, global procureme nt s t rateg ies, integrated service management, and compliance with regulatory and legal requirements needs company-w ide unambiguous data definitions Being able to work with high-quality data is pivotal to enable service-oriented bu siness applications [24, p  p increas e the validity of s t rategic decis i ons  29  pp. 23 nd al l o w for hi g h regul at or y compl i a nce  8, p. 5 Metadata of high qu ality are the basis for retrieving, managing, evaluating, and using appropriate information through precise queries, as they increase 
us er confidence in data and i m prove decis i on-makin g  quality [22, pp. 18  In th i s resp ect, metad ata man agement refers to assigning standard \(textual\definitions to data, and to maintenance of such data in a centralized dictionary or meta data repository [6, p. 16  such as a \(semantic  1.2. Business scenario  In cooperation with a chemical company, we are conducting a Design Research project [10 for developing a central metadata repository. The company is running a global process harmonization project and is planning to establish a central single point of truth for 
master data. In this project, the company needs harmonized and comprehensible data definitions in order to provide guidance for users \(i.e. users of SAP systems maintaining materials, ven dor, and customer master data\rk in newly harmonized business processes. The repository is intended to be used worldwide by about 6.000 users for support purposes A central metadata repository is already in place providing information on company-specific SAP data fields and transactions. This repository is supposed to be used by SAP users for clarifying the usage of par 
ticular SAP data fields, forms, and transactions. However, acceptance and usability of this tool are low Some problems of the current solution were identified in focus group interviews [3, pp. 153Ö1   information retrieval is too time consuming  search and navigation functionality is poor  information is not up to date  metadata is not integrated with business processes Considering the interview results, the company decided to use a wiki for a new ve 
rsion of the metadata repository. This decision was based on the assumption that the wiki could increase the willingness of employees to maintain support information and to exchange experiences. These expected effects are supposed to improve timeliness of information and increase the number of users. However, the evaluation of this assumption is part of ongoing research. The paper at hand discusses whether or not to use a semantic The prior deciProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


sion to use wiki based so ftware for a new version of the metadata repository is considered as a given fact Focus group interviews about design alternatives 10, pp. 88 for wi ki bas ed s o ft ware res ul t s i n co nsiderations whether or not to use a semantic wiki instead of a classical wiki \(cf. Section 2.2 tainty about the impact of functionality that is only provided by a semantic wiki we decided to conduct a controlled experiment to investigate positive or negative effects of the use of a semantic wiki. This experiment was not intended to evaluate the above mentioned wiki-based metadata repository but to indicate whether or not a semantic wiki is able to overcome supposed drawbacks of a common wiki in general. The intended contribution is to empiri cally confirm supposed effects in order to provide decision support for wiki development projects. An empiri cal evaluation of the mentioned Design Research project and a comparison with the findings presented in this paper is part of future work Considering the interview results mentioned above we decided to focus on information maintenance and information retrieval. Research to date has tended to focus on effects of using classical wikis in corporate context [20, 23, 26, 33, 35 S o far howe v er, t h ere has  been little empirical research on effects of using semantic wikis for metadata management The paper at hand presents the results of a controlled experiment on the ef fect of using a semantic wiki for metadata management In particular, we investigated how enhanced wiki functionality affects 1\ time needed to accomplish certain tasks and 2\ubjects assessments regarding effort and usability. In Section 2, we outline our understanding of metadata and give some background information on \(semantic\ki technology used for the experiment. Section 3 explains the rationale behind the chosen experiment design and gives information on the experimentês implementation and progression. In Section 4, we present the main results of the statistical analysis and we discuss possible threats to validity of the results. Section 5 provides a summary and discusses future work  2. Background  2.1. Definition of metadata  Metadata can be defined in general as data that describe the meaning and the properties of other data demarcating them from other data types, such as transaction and mas recis e ly, we  use the term to determine important characteristics that need to be known for both database and application engineering [7, p. 482 o r general, s e mantically  unambiguous understanding of data within an organization. Metadata, accordi ngly, facilitate identification detection, use, and management of data as they allow an organization to better understand its data sources and definitions. Tozer [31, p  u mmarizes their function by èseeing metadata as the means by which the structure and behavior of data is recorded, controlled, and published across an organizationê. The most comprehensive definition is provided by Marco 22, p. 5 cribes meta data as èall physical data and knowledge from inside and outside an organization, including information about the physical data technical and business processe s, rules and constraints of the data, and structures of the data used by a corporation From a data management perspective, metadata is any information that supports effective use of data including information that can facilitate data management \(e.g. data authenti cation, data sequence, data type, or key field indicators\s and data analysis \(e.g. format for data mi ning, visualization\[2 p. 12   2.2. Wikis and semantic wikis  Wiki is a piece of server software that allows users to freely create and edit web page content using any web browser. Wiki supports hyperlinks and has simple text syntax \(wiki markup or wikitext\reating new pages and cross-links between in ternal wiki pages on the fly [5 u rther t ypical feat ures are version control \(history management\ as well as search and navigation functionality. It has to be mentioned that the term wiki does not refer to specific so ftware or technology but to the concept of web based, collaborative collection organization, and provision of information Wikis have become popular tools for collaboration on the web, and many online communities employ wikis to exchange knowledge. For a majority of wikis public or not, primary goals are to organize and to share the knowledge collected [17, p. 2  One of the best known examples of a wiki is the multilingual, free encyclopedia Wikipedia 1 which every user can edit. Due to rather primitiv e features for searching information provided by the Wikipedia software, Krˆtzsch et al pr opos ed a mo re s t ructu red  approach and started an open-source software project to develop an enhanced wiki engine \(i.e. an extension of the wiki engine MediaWiki 2 that is used for Wikipedia called Semantic MediaWiki 3  SMW\sified as a semantic wiki. Both MediaWiki and SMW are mentioned here as they are used for our experiment \(i.e. the classical wikis are provided by installations of MediaWiki, while the se  1 http://www.wikipedia.org 2 http://www.mediawiki.org 3 http://www.semantic-mediawiki.org Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


mantic wikis are provided by installations of MediaWiki and the SMW extension Unlike classical wikis semantic wikis provide a structured representation of their content, mostly encoded in RDF based languages [26, 30, p a s e d on this additional information structure, enhanced search and navigation functionality is provided. As there is no comprehensive classification of semantic wiki functionality, we just provide information on SMW as a representative of semantic wikis. Please note that there are more semantically enhanced wiki engines \(e.g. MaknaWi  n d  IkeW rovidi ng furt her features e.g., f o r collaborative ontology editing or document publishing However, such features are not in the focus of the business scenario mentioned in Section 1.2\or more information, Buffa et al. [1 pres ent a s t ate-of -the-a rt of semantic wikis. A case study on the management of corporate manufacturing metadat a is presented by Muljadi et al. [23, pp. 271. ff  Figure 1 shows a page with information about Gorgonzola cheese that was used in the experiment \(i.e. in the semantic wikis\MW uses additional markup to annotate the content of a wiki page [17, pp. 254 n  the classical wiki, a link from the Gorgonzola page to the page about Piedmont looks like this Piedmont   MediaWiki markup\ith SMW, one can add a meaning to this link by adding some additional markup Production Region::Piedmont  The enhanced wiki engine parses the annotated wikitext and builds a data structure based on the additional information \(i.e a directed graph with a labe led relation \(Production Region\m Gorgonzola to Piedmont Figure 2 shows an SMW special page that is available for all semantically annotated pages. It provides information already available on the content page \(i.e in the Facts about box, cf. Figure 1\ed representation. This extracted information is intended to increase the wikiês usability regarding navigation and information retrieval  3. Research methodology  3.1. Research objective  We conducted a controlled experiment with an AB/BA cross-over design. Background information on this design is given in Section 3.3. Regarding the underlying Design Research project mentioned in Section 1.2 we identified the following two research questions  How is a wikiês usability affected by functionality which is enabled by semantically annotated wiki content  What additional effort is needed to semantically annotate wiki content  3.2. Scenario  As already mentioned, we focus on real-world metadata management scenarios where users are familiar with the underlying data model. One example of such a scenario is company-specific support for an SAP system, where the wiki contains information on how to use specific SAP data fields \(e.g. the sales tax ID as part of supplier master data\ For that reason, we tried to minimize the effort necessary to understand given tasks by using a simple, plain scenario. We chose an ontology about pizzas, which is also used for education and training purposes in the context of ontology editing software [13 o re precis e ly we us ed a s ubs et o f this  ontology: We only selected information about pizzas their toppings, and the spiciness of pizza toppings. We mapped this information to an appropriate wiki representation. The wikis contain pages for several pizzas e.g Pizza Capricciosa e.g Gorgonzola cheese cf. Figure 1\. Relations \(e.g. between pizzas and their toppings\ determined by the page content \(classical wiki\by semantic annotations semantic wiki\pectively  Figure 2. Enhanced navigation enabled by semantically annotate d wiki content  Figure 1. Semantically annotated wiki page  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


3.3. Experiment design  Regarding our research questions, we needed to take measurements on comparable s ubjects under different conditions: a classical wiki on the one hand, and a semantic wiki on the other ha nd. To control the treatment of subjects, we designed a co ntrolled experiment [4, p 181 f following p a rameters more detailed information on the tasks T Find T Collect and T Link is given in Section 3.4  Independent variables For two tasks \(T Find T Collect  we controlled the wikiês functionality. Subjects had to accomplish the same tasks with both a classical and a semantic wiki. For another task \(T Link  controlled the scope of the task \(adding classical links vs. semantic annotations  Dependent variables We measured the subjects assessments regarding effort and usability in trying to accomplish the given tasks by taking ratings on an interval scale \(1Ö9\ermore, we measured the time needed for each task to be accomplished We consider these variables to serve as proper indicators of the shortcomings identified with regard to the metadata repository currently in use \(cf. interview results mentioned in Section 1.2 Given three tasks and three dependent variables, we can formulate nine null hypotheses for our controlled experiment  No difference in time needed to accomplish T Find  T Collect and T Link   No difference in effort ratings for T Find T Collect and T Link   No difference in usability ratings for T Find T Collect  and T Link  To achieve higher statistical power [19, p. 80 o  ensure internal validity [28, pp. 35 ff  use a repeated-measures design for our controlled experiment. In a repeated-measures design, subjects receive two or more treatments modification of controlled variables\Even with high subject variability there will be almost always a positive correlation [14 p. 18  A shortcoming of repeated-measures design is the occurrence of carry-over effects [9, p. 31 a rr y-o ver effects can occur in two ways: practice effects and sequence effects. In our context, practice effects can occur because subjects might not have used a wiki in the past. Therefore, it is plausible that in the second run subjects will exhibit better performance than in the first run because they had some practice with a wiki, regardless of the wiki type When confronted with a sequence effect, the effect of the first treatment persists and thus contaminates the measurements on the second treatment. Results of our analysis to identify carry-over effects are given in Section 4.2 To err on the conservative side, we used a counterbalanced repeated-measures design \(i.e. an AB/BA cross-over design [28, pp. 46Ö50 i t h count er balancing, all possible orders of treatments are considered and subject groups are randomly assigned to one of the treatment sequences. The effect of counterbalancing is to spread the unwanted variance arising from interference through practice or sequence effects [4, p 212Ö228 u rthermo re, an explicit tes t for carry-o ver  effects is conducted during our analysis to check if any such effects persisted despite the counterbalancing  3.4. Experiment implementation  Participants were members of an applied research program as well as employees and consultants that are involved in data quality management. All subjects could be classified as interested in the context of data quality. We had a set of 279 potential participants from more than 80 different companies, which were randomly assigned to two groups \(GA, GB\Random assignment can be regarded as a method of experimental control because it is assumed that over large numbers of subjects uncontrolled fact ors are distributed evenly over the treatment conditions [34, pp. 261Ö262  The experiment was conducted in April 2008. Each subject received an email containing a short introduction, the URLs of two wikis \(i.e. a classical and a semantic wiki\n online survey. As we used an address repository that was built up during the last two years, the address data was not free of errors Since 31 emails could not be delivered, the size of the sample was reduced to 248 \(128 in GA and 120 in GB\ome technical problems during the first two days, 13 data sets could not be considered in the analysis. Finally, we received 74 analyzable results \(39 in GA and 35 in GB\ch corresponds to a response rate of 29  It has to be noted that there are smaller sample sizes in some cases as not all subjects accomplished each task. For some statistical calculations, it is also necessary to consider only those subjects that have accomplished a task in both the classical and the semantic wiki For each participant, we prepared two wikis: a classical wiki and a semantic wi ki. We used the wiki engine MediaWiki for both wikis. For the semantic wiki we also installed the SMW extension \(cf. Section 2.2 Copies of the wikis used \(i.e. the classical wiki 4 and the semantic wiki 5 vailable online. Furthermore, we asked all participants to assess the wikisê usability and the effort needed to accomplish certain tasks. \(cf. dependent variables in Section 3.3\ Besides the ratings we implemented a logging ex tension for the wikis that   4 http://wiki.iwi.unisg.ch/experiment/ClassicalWiki 5 http://wiki.iwi.unisg.ch/experiment/SemanticWiki Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


saves timestamps for several wiki actions \(i.e. view edit, and save actions\ these timestamps, we could estimate the time necessary to accomplish the given tasks. The following subsections describe the three tasks each subject had to accomplish in both the classical and the semantic wiki  3.4.1. èFind Contentê Task \(T Find  We asked the subjects to go to five wiki pages. For this task, the classical wikis only provide indexed search functionality and links between wiki pages. Besides search and link functionality, the semantic wikis also provide a factbox that summarizes semantica lly annotated data of a page cf. Figure 1\ further navigation support mentioned in Section 2.2 \(cf. Figure 2\In order to simulate corporate scenarios, we asked to visit semantically related pages \(e.g. a specific pizza and afterwards a pizza with a similar topping  3.4.2. èCollect Informationê Task \(T Collect  We asked the subjects to collect all wiki pages about pizzas that have at least one hot topping \(referred to as hot pizzas The spiciness information was only given in the page text of a pizza topping. In the classical wikis, the subjects had to read all pizza topping pages for identifying hot pizzas. In the semantic wi kis, we additionally provided a GUI based interface fo r intuitive assembly of ask queries  3.4.3. èLink Informationê Task \(T Link  We asked the subjects to add missing links into a specific wiki page The text without links was already included. In the semantic wikis, subjects also were asked to semantically annotate the added links  4. Results and analysis  4.1. Statistical background  For this paper, we have visualized some of the most important results by means of box plots [32, p. 39 ff The box of a certain plot contains 50  of the data points. The lower / upper border of the box marks the 25  75  quantile. The lower / upper t-bar marks the most extreme data point which is not more than 1.5 times the length of the box away from the lower / upper edge of the box. Outliers from the above scheme are visualized by circles. The median is marked with a thick line We used the non-parametric one-sided two-sample Wilcoxon rank-sum test [12, pp. 10 o r eval uat i o n  as we did not assume a cert ain distribution \(e.g. a normal distribution for both data sets\n general. Besides the tolerance for different distributions, this test is also recommended for both ordinal and interval scaled data despite introductions to assume constant spacing for the rating scale, we cannot assume homogenous interval scaled data\ The statistical power of the Wilcoxon test is in the worst case 13.6  smaller than the power of the corresponding t-test [12, p. 13 red uction  factor is considered for all power calculations in this section. However, all statistical power calculations result in values close to è1ê. The reason for these high statistical power values can be found in very small pvalues \(cf. Section 4.3 We only conducted statistical analysis for T Find and T Link because we did not receive enough comparable data sets for T Collect cf. Section 4.4  4.2. Cross-over analysis  We applied the Hills-Armitage approach [11, p. 12Ö15 to analyze carry-over effects of the experiment. This regression method is recommended to analyze data from cross-over experiments [28, p. 47 roach  is based on treating the experimental sequence order as a dummy variable that, in our case, takes the value è<1 for data points of GA and è1ê for data points of GB The test is legitimate regardless of whether just one or both of the effects \(i.e. practice and sequence effect\ is present. However, the test is incapable of discriminating between the two effects [18, p. 4 After a re gression analysis, the gradient coefficient of the regression line can be seen as an indicator of a carry-over effect. More precisely, one can determine the significance of the effect by calculating the distance of the coefficient from zero. Table 1 shows the cross-over analysis results \(abbr.: RC \(regression coefficient standard error\, t \(t-value P \(probability > |t|\E treatment effect\, CE \(carry-over effect\ Significance level: 5   Results of the regression analysis presented in Table 1 indicate that the mean difference between values of GA and GB \(i.e. the values for TE in column RC significantly different from zero for all dependent variables \(i.e. p < 0.001 for effort, usability, and time This suggests that the semantic wiki is superior to the Table 1. Results of the cross-over analysis  RC SE t-value P T Fin d  Effort TE 3.228 0.180 17.018 0.001 CE 0.366 0.180 1.929 0.059 Usability TE 2.609 0.167 15.599 0.001 CE 0.046 0.167 0.277 0.783 Time TE 30.968 2.635 11.754 0.001 CE 0.687 2.635 0.261 0.795 T Lin k  Effort TE 1.841 0.111 16.513 0.001 CE 0.059 0.111 0.533 0.596 Usability TE 1.130 0.102 11.049 < 0.001 CE 0.036 0.102 0.356 0.723 Time TE 43.541 2.748 15.847 < 0.001 CE 2.741 2.748 -0.997 0.323  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


classical wiki regarding T Find and T Link A more detailed analysis of the treatment effect is given in the following subsections. A signi ficant carry-over effect could not be determined: All p-val ues \(cf. values for CE in column P\ are greater than the chosen significance level of 0.05  4.3. Analysis of T Find and T Link   For the analysis, we considered 61 subjects \(32 in GA and 29 in GB\rding T Find and 62 subjects \(32 in GA and 30 in GB\rding T Link Table 2 summarizes mean, standard deviation, correlation coefficients, and results of a significance analysis regarding T Find and T Link abbr.: CW \(common wiki\W \(semantic wiki SD \(standard deviation\orr \(Spearmanês rank correlation coefficient\. P-values calculated by the Wilcoxon test all are smaller than 0.001 Figure 3 and Figure 4 show box plots of the subjectsê ratings regarding usability and effort for T Find  The box plots show that subjects using a semantic wiki gave higher ratings regarding usability and lower ratings regarding effort than su bjects using the classical wiki. These results are cons istent with th e time measurements: Almost all subjects accomplished T Find faster in the semantic wiki than in the classical wiki \(cf. Figure 5\e results are strongly significant \(p 0.001 for effort, usability, and time Results for T Link are also significant \(p < 0.001 for effort, usability, and time\, yet this time it is the other way round. The box plots in Figure 3 and Figure 4 and the scatter plot in Figure 6 show that subjects using a semantic wiki gave lower ratings and needed more time to accomplish T Link than subjects using a classical wiki. Besides a signifi cant distance, there is a significant positive correlation between each pair of data sets Values of the Spearmanês rank correlation coefficient for all data set pairs are given in Table 2 In summary, all null hypotheses regarding T Find and T Link have to be rejected. Regarding any threats to validity \(cf. Section 4.5\emantic wiki performs better for T Find while it shows lower performance for T Link   4.4. Analysis of T Collect   Regarding T Collect we have too few comparable data sets for significant statistical anal ysis. Obviously, the given task was too hard to accomplish. Only six subjects tried to accomplish T Collect in the classical wiki. Any of these subjects achieved an acceptable result. With the semantic wiki, 61 subjects \(31 in GA and 30 in GB tried to accomplish the task. It is interesting to note that all seven subjects of GA \(remember: classical wiki before semantic wiki aborted the experiment were lost while trying to accomplish T Collect in the classical wiki. Subjects of GB also aborted T Collect in the classical wiki but continued with trying to accomplish T Link    classical wiki semantic wiki classical wiki semantic wiki 02468 Find Task                                   Link Task low\                                usability rating                                \(excellent Figure 4. Usability ratings for T Find and T Link   classical wiki semantic wiki classical wiki semantic wiki 02468 Find Task                                   Link Task low\                                      effort rating                                      \(high Figure 3. Effort ratings for T Find and T Link   Table 2. Significance and correlation analysis  Mean SD Corr  CW SW CW SW T Fin d  Effort 6.279 3.131 1.803 1.954 0.694 Usability 4.295 6.836 1.551 1.812 0.630 Time 204.83 175.836 35.203 43.196 0.811 T Lin k  Effort 3.387 5.065 1.441 1.740 0.791 Usability 4.484 3.452 1.720 2.092 0.900 Time 90.548 134.177 27.008 35.103 0.770  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Another interesting finding is the number of 42 correct results for T Collect in the semantic wiki. It has to be noted that the task had to be accomplished by creating an ask statement. Though the se mantic wiki provides a query interface to support subjects \(cf. Figure 7\ it is remarkable that 61 subjects tried to use this interface and 42 of them \(24 in GA and 18 in GB\ucceeded in doing so. Despite this interesting observation, we cannot draw any significant conc lusion whether or not to reject the null hypotheses regarding T Collect   4.5. Threats to validity  It is the nature of any empiri cal study that assumptions are made which later on restrict the validity of the results. In this subsection, we discuss these assumptions that impose threats to internal and external validity  4.5.1. Internal Validity Threats to internal validity are those factors that may affect the value of the dependent variables apart fr om the independent variable 15, p. 7 Effects re gardi ng s e lection, maturation instrumentation, and presentation can be considered as not relevant when using a crossover design with random allocation to sequence which is designed to avoid these problems [28, pp. 35 us ing a cross-over design is problema tic if there is an interaction between sequence and treat ment. Considering this threat, we conducted a cross-over analysis that is discussed in Section 4.2. Results of this analysis do not indicate significant cross-over effects  4.5.2. External Validity Threats to external validity are those factors that may limit the applicability of the experimental results to indus try practice [4, p. 360  Our experiment considered three threats to external validity: participant representativeness, scenario representativeness, and task representativeness Participant representativeness is an issue, because all participants are more or less interested in the topic of data quality management. This characteristic cannot be assumed in general for users of wiki based metadata management software. Nevertheless, the familiarity with \(semantic\is was low: All subjects stated to read on Wikipedia, but nobody had ever written some content. Only twelve subjects \(16  knew the MediaWiki software before the experiment, only one stated to use it. Regarding SMW, only three subjects 4  stated to know the software Of course, the scenario cannot be generalized to industrial practice except to pizzeria businesses. Regarding this threat, we need to discuss whether or not the complexity of the scenario can be viewed as a valid representation for a real-world scenario. One important factor at this point is th e knowledge of real-world employees about their specific tasks. For our experiment we tried to compensate the missing knowledge about the arbitrary scenar io with lower co mplexity. However one valid argument threatens the results regarding T Find  The semantic wiki can only expedite a userês work process, if the information needed is semantically con 150 200 250 100 150 200 250 classical  wiki \(seconds semantic wiki \(seconds Group A Group B Figure 5. Time correlation \(0.811\ of T Find   60 80 100 120 140 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 classical wiki \(seconds semantic wiki \(seconds Group A Group B Figure 6. Time correlation \(0.770\ of T Link   Fi g ure 7. SMW query Interface Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


nected \(due to the search and navigation support that is based on semantic annotations When discussing the representativeness of the experimentês results, we must admit that the effects identified are certainly dependent on the software that was used. All tasks defined addressed specific features of SMW \(i.e. extracted information to enhance navigation, the query interface, or the SMW markup  4.6. Discussion  We identified a signi ficant difference between the performance of the classical wikis and the performance of the semantic wikis, while certain threats to validity have been taken into consideration. As the experiment was intended to provide decision support as to whether or not using a semantic wiki \(i.e. the SMW extension for a MediaWiki based wiki is beneficial for metadata management, we discuss the results in the context of the Design Research project mentioned in Section 1.2 The experimentês results indicate that information retrieval is faster and easier when extending MediaWiki with SMW. At the same time, the effort for information maintenance increases due to additionally needed semantic annotations in the wiki content. When trying to draw conclusions from these findings, one has to consider specific characteristics of the corporate scenario focused. If the intended effect is to facilitate content creation, a classical wiki would be the better choice. If the wiki is supposed to facilitate information retrieval and the utilization of contained information, a semantic wiki is preferable. Besides th is consideration, technical aspects \(e.g. integration of wi ki content into further applications [23, 26 ve to be taken into accou nt  In the business scenario mentioned in Section 1.2 the clear focus is on information retrieval as the number of content users exceeds the number of intended content authors \(i.e. 6.000 vs. 90\. For that reason, the identified effects concerning T Find are regarded to be more important than increasing effort for content authors. However, the evaluation of these expectations is part of future work. At this point, we just want to outline how the experimentês findings can contribute to given wiki development projects  5. Conclusion and future work  The paper at hand presents the results of a controlled experiment on the effect of usi ng a semantic wiki for metadata management. Taking into consideration threats to validity, we have come to the conclusion that the semantically enhanced wiki engine SMW is superior to the classical variant \(i.e. a classical MediaWiki installation\ regarding information retrieval tasks. At the same time, the results indicate that in the semantic wiki more effort is needed to build up the semantically annotated knowledge base, which is a precondition for semantically enhanced functionality. These results are being discussed with referenc e to a real-world metadata management scenario in order to disclose how to draw conclusions for practice Further work needs to be done to assess whether the findings are representative for real-world scenarios The Design Research project mentioned is intended to observe comparable effects for the specific use case of a metadata repository with SAP support information Besides the effects investigated in our experiment, the effects of deep metadata integration into business processes have to be examined. The possibility to provide a machine processable representation of collaboratively created wiki content that can be easily integrated into enterprise systems \(i.e. a SAP system supposed to have a positive effect on process performance \(i.e. process fide lity, process cycle time  7. Acknowledgements The work presented in the paper at hand was supported by the contribution of the Competence Center Corporate Data Quality \(CC CDQ 6 which is part of the research program Business Engineering \(BE HSG 7 of the University of St  Gallen  6. References  1 u ffa, F Gan d o n  G Eret eo P. Sa n d e r, an d C Faro n   Sweetwiki: A semantic wikié, Journal of Web Semantics 6 \(1\. 1, 2008, pp. 84Ö97 2 rn ett, K. B. Ng an d S  P a rk A co mp ariso n o f th e two traditions of metadata developmenté, Journal of the American Society for Information Science 50 \(13\, 1999 pp. 1209Ö1217   Ca va na B. L. D e la ha ye a nd U  Se ka ra n, A pplie d  Business research: Qualitative and Quantitative Methods Milton, Queensland, John Wiley & Sons, 2001   Chris t e n s e n, E xpe rim e nta l Me th od olo gy 8 t h e d   Boston, MA, Allyn and Bacon, 2001  nn in gha m   W ha t is w i ki 1 9 9 5 o n li ne a v a ila ble  http://www.wiki.org/wiki.cgi?WhatIsWiki \(08/08/22   D y c h  a nd E. Le v y C u s t o m e r D a ta Inte gra tion H o b o ken, New Jersey, John Wiley & Sons, 2006   En glis h  Im pro v i ng D a ta Wa re hous e a nd B u s i ne s s  Information Quality, New York, John Wiley & Sons, 1999  dm a n  G a r tne r stu dy on da ta q u a lity s hows tha t it  still bears the burden,é Gartner Research, Stamford, Connecticut, 2006, No. G00137680   6 http://cdq.iwi.unisg.ch 7 http://www.iwi.unisg.ch/behsg Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  G  G r e e n w a ld W it hin-s u bje c t de s i gns T o us e o r n o t to use?é Psychological Bulletin 83 \(2\, 1976, pp. 314Ö320   R. H e vne r S. T. Ma rc h, J  Pa rk, a nd S. Ra m   D e s ign science in information systems researché, Management Information Systems Quarterly 28 \(1\2004, pp. 75Ö105  M. H i l l s a n d P A r m ita ge   T he tw o-pe ri od c r os s o ve r clinical trialé, British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology 8 \(1 1979, pp. 7Ö20   H o lla nde r a n d D  A  W o l f e  N onpa ra m e tric Sta tis tic al Methods, 2nd ed., New York, John Wiley & Sons, 1999   J u pp, G  Mo ult on, A   R e c t or, R  Ste ve ns a nd C   Wroe, çA practical guide to building owl ontologies using protÈgÈ 4 and co-ode toolsé, The University of Manchester 2007   K e re n B e t w e e n or w ithin-s u bje c t s de s i gn A m e thodologi cal dilemma in: A Handbook for Data Analysis in the Behavioral Sciences Ö Methodological Issues, G. Keren and C. Lewis, Eds, Hillsdale, NJ, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1993, pp. 257Ö272 15 B A Kitch e n h a m S  L  P f l eeg er D C Ho aglin  an d J  Rosenberg, çPreliminary guidelines for empirical research in software engineeringé, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 28 \(8\, 2002, pp. 721Ö734 16  M  Kr tzsch  D Vran d e i   an d M  V l k el Wikip ed ia  and the semantic web Ö the missing linksé, Proceedings of Wikimania 2005, Frankfurt, Germany, 2005 17 M  Kr tzsch D. Vran d e i   M. Vˆlkel, H. Haller, and R Studer, çSemantic wikipediaé, Journal of Web Semantics 5 \(4\, 2007, pp. 251Ö261   La ite nbe rge r K  El Em a m a nd T. H a rbic h A n i n ternally replicated quasi-expe rimental comparison of checklist and perspective-based reading of code documentsé, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 27 \(5\001, pp. 387 421  pse y, De sign Se nsitivit y: Sta tistic a l Powe r for  Experimental Research, Newbury Park, CA, Sage Publications, 1989   Ma jc hrz a k C. Wa g n e r  a nd D  Y a te s   C orpora t e  wiki users: Results of a surveyé, Proceedings of the 2006 International Symposium on Wikis, Odense, Denmark, 2006  S. T  Ma rc h a nd G  F S m ith D e s ign a n d na tura l  science research on information technologyé Decision Support Systems 15 \(4\, 1995, pp. 251Ö266    Ma rc o, B u ild ing a n d Ma na gin g t h e Me ta D a ta Re pository. A Full Lifecycle Guide, New York, Wiley Computer Publishing, 2000    Mul ja di, H  Ta ke da a n d K  A n d o  D e v e l o p m e nt of a  semantic wiki-based feature library for the extraction of manufacturing feature and manufacturing informationé, International Journal of Computer Science 1 \(4\2006, pp 265Ö273   N e w m a n a nd D  Loga n   A c h ie ving a g il ity: H o w  enterprise information mana gement overcomes information silosé Gartner Research, Stamfo rd, Connecticut, 2006 No. G00137817   B. N i xon a n d E. P. B. Sim pe rl M a kna a nd m u ltimakna: towards semantic and multimedia capability in wikis for the emerging webé, Proceedings of the Semantics 2006 Vienna, Austria, 2006   D. Pao li an d M. L o re gian, çOn integrat ing a semantic wiki in a knowledge management systemé, Proceedings of the 3rd Italian Semantic Web Workshop, Pisa, Italy, 2006   Sc ha ffe rt I ke w i ki: A se m a ntic wiki for c o lla b o ra tive  knowledge managementé, Proceedi ngs of the 1st International Workshop on Semantic Technologies in Collaborative Applications, Mancester, UK, 2006 28  S   S e n n  Cro ss-ov er T r i a l s i n Cl i n i cal Research  2n d ed    Southern Gate, Chichester, West Sussex, England, Wiley Sons, 2002   Sha nka ra na ra ya n, M  Zi a d a nd R  Y  Wa ng  M a n aging data quality in dynamic decision environments: An information product approach Journal of Database Management 14 \(4\ 2003, pp. 14Ö32  uz is B uil din g a se m a ntic wiki IEEE In te llige n t  Systems 20 \(5\, 2005, pp. 87Ö91   T o z e r Me ta da ta Ma na g e m e nt for Inform a tio n Co ntrol and Business Success, Boston, Artech House, 1999   W. T uke y, E x p l ora t or y D a ta A n a l ys is Re a d ing, Ma s sachusetts, Addison-Wesley, 1977   Wh ite L Pl otnic k, R A dda m s Mori ng M. T u r o ff  and S. R. Hiltz, çLeveraging a wiki to enhance virtual collaboration in the emergency domainé, Proceedings of the 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Waikoloa, Big Island, Hawaii, 2008   Wine r, D  R. Brow n, a n d K  M Mic he ls Sta tis t i c a l  Principles In Experimental Design, 2nd ed, Boston, Massachusetts, McGraw-Hill, 1991   Y a n g D  Wu S. K oolm a nojw o n g  A  W  Brow n, a n d B. W. Boehm, çWikiwinwin: A wiki based system for collaborative requirements negotiationé, Proceedings of the 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Waikoloa, Big Island, Hawaii, 2008  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  10 Airborne Collision Avoidance System and Enhanced Vision System  Akira Ishide was born in Tokyo Japan.  He received the B.S. degree in 1971 from the Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan.   Since 1971, he has been with the Electronic Navigation Research Institute, Ministry of Transport Tokyo, Japan.   He received the Ph D. in 1996 from the Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan Since 2001, he has been with the Electronic Navigation Research Institute, Independent Administrative Institution He has been engaged in research on Aeronautical Satellite Communication System, Array Antenna System, and so on 


Alan Little is the MEDLI Project Manager at NASA's Langley Research Center He previously served on a variety of earth remote sensing missions and recently served as the NASA-CNES interface manager and the payload assembly integration and test manager on the joint NASAICNES CALIPSO Mission that was launched in April 2006 He has a MS in Optics from the University of Rochester Neil Cheatwood earned B.S MS and Ph.D degrees in aerospace engineering from NC State University He has played key roles in a number of NASA's planetary atmospheric flight programs and is a nationally recognized expert in aerosciences and flight mechanics for planetary entry systems He is currently serving as the Hypersonics Project Scientist for the Fundamental Aeronautics Program with NASA's ARMD Dr Cheatwood is also the Principle Investigator for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project In recent years he led NASA LaRC efforts to develop inflatable aeroshell technologies He served as CoInvestigator to Claude Graves of NASA JSC on the NASA ESMD ESR&T Inflatable Aeroshell and TPS Development IA TD Project He served as the Principle Investigator for NASA LaRCs Inflatable Reentry Vehicle Experiment IRVE as well as the follow-on Program to Advance Inflatable Decelerators for Atmospheric Entry PAI-DAE Dr Cheatwood was responsible for aerodynamic databases of Stardust Mars Microprobe Genesis and Mars Exploration Rovers He has also contributed to the Mars Global Surveyor and Mars Sample Return flight projects Dr Cheatwood is an AIAA Associate Fellow and the principle author or co-author of 60 technical publications in the fields of fluid dynamics atmospheric entry and systems engineering Jeff Herath serves as the Lead Systems Engineer and Chief Engineer for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI He also serves as the Assistant Head of the Atmospheric Flight and Entry Systems Branch AFESB to plan direct and coordinate Branch activities in the areas offlight and entry systems research and development Mr Herath previously was the Acting Assistant Branch Head for Electronic Systems and served as the branch leadfor new business activities proposals and their development He was also the Principal Investigator PI for the Radiation Tolerant Intelligent Memory Stack RTIMS Project which successfully developed and demonstrated an in-flight reconfigurable radiation tolerant stacked memory array He co-founded Vianix LC a company developing and licensing voice compression technology and served as its Chief Technology Officer He developed the company's voice compression technology and was responsible for all research  development engineering personnel and production efforts He has 6 patents As Manager of Hardware Development at Arc Second Inc he designed and built a unique laser based three-dimensional positioning system which opened new markets for the company At E-Systems he successfully completed several military avionics programs and payload that were classified and consisted of system box and board level designs Michelle Munk has been a NASA employee for nearly 20 years first at the Johnson Space Center then at the Langley Research Center She has been involved in Mars advanced mission studies for many years both robotic and human contributing interplanetary trajectory analysis and entry and descent analysis She has managed the delivery of International Space Station hardware and was on the Mars Odyssey aerobraking operations team In 2002 Ms Munk accepted a detail assignment to become the Lead Engineer for Aerocapture Technology Development under In-Space Propulsion at Marshall Space Flight Center She managed the technical work of ISP Aerocapture for nearly 5 years before becoming the Project Area Manager and returning to Langley in 2007 Ms Munk is also a subsystem leadfor the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project and contributes to other NASA projects developing entry system technologies She has a BSAE from Virginia Tech and completed graduate coursework at the University of Houston Frank Novak is an Assistant Branch Head for Remote Sensing Flight Systems Branch RSFSB at the NASA Langley Research Center LaRC in Hampton VA He serves as the MEDLI Subsystem Manager for the Sensor Support Electronics SSE system Mr Novak has over 20 years of experience in the design development and test of spaceflight electronics He served as the lead development manager for the EVA IR Camera Project lead engineer for the visible imager for the GIFTS project lead electronics engineer for the pointing spectrometer for the Mars ARES project lead integration and test engineer for the SAGE III project and lead engineer for the interface adaptor module for SAGE III He earned a BS in Physics from Christopher Newport University in 1999 11 


Ed Martinez is a Project Manager/Lead Scientist/Project Engineer with 20 years experience in the aerospace and electromechanical field He is responsible for leading the Thermal Protection System TPS instrumentation programs for the NASA Ames Research Center As Project Manager he simultaneously managed multiple teams of scientists engineers and engineering technicians responsible for TPS projects including test analysis and technology advancement As Lead Scientist he was engaged in the characterization and operations of the world's largest shock tube This facility produced simultaneous overpressure and thermal environments at shock speeds up to Mach 5 As a Project Engineer his experience included project initiation coordination and providing design and instrument criteria for operating multi-100 million dollar DoD facilities Mr Martinez also managed data handling performed analysis reporting of test results and maintained technical proficiency in shockwave phenomenology 12 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in LiËge for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f LiËge in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


