  Justifying the Decisions for EAI Adoption in LGAs: A Validated Proposition of Factors, Adoption Lifecycle Phases, Mapping and Prioritisation of Factors    Muhammad Mustafa Kamal Department of Information Systems and Computing Brunel University, Uxbridge UB8 3PH, UK Muhammad.Kamal@brunel.ac.uk  Marinos Themistocleous Department of Technology Education and Digital Systems University of Piraeus Greece mthemist@unipi.gr Vincenzo Morabito Bocconi University Viale Isonzo, 23 
20135 Milano Italy Vincenzo.Morabito@unibocconi.it   Abstract  Local Government Authorities \(LGAs\re responsible for providing reliable services and information to their citizens. However, literature indicates that LGAs ha ve problems in meeting citizens demands. This may be attributed to the Information Technology \(IT\ infrastructure limitations in LGAs that are not integrated and do not allow them to deliver end-to-end integrated services. The reason is that legacy Information Systems \(IS\ are usually tailored to support specific business processes and functions and are difficult to 
integrate. This gives rise to a need for an integrated IT infrastructure that facilitates reuse of existing applications and flexibly implementing business processes. Enterprise Application Integration \(EAI has emerged to address the intra- and interorganisational integration in a more flexible and manageable way. Nevertheless, its application in LGAs is limited.  Thus, the authors demonstrate that it is of high importance to investigate this area within LGAs and result in research that contributes towards successful EAI adoption. In addressing the relative void, this paper proposes and validates a novel model for EAI adoption in LGAs and contributes to the body 
of knowledge by extending the literature. The proposed model can be used by LGAs as a tool for decision making while adopting EAI  1. Introduction  The lack of common organisational-wide IT infrastructure has resulted in the development of a diversity of disparate applications within LGAs. The disadvantages of such heterogeneous IT infrastructures are analysed in the literature and include among others: \(a\ high maintenance cost, and b\dundancy and inconsistency G A s  have attempted to overcome these problems by 
interconnecting their disparate applications e.g. by point-to-point interconnection iterat u re  indicates that integration is much more than merely interconnecting the disparate applications and the connectivity of applications was insufficient due to the fact that individual applications were not designed to interoperate with each other [21  Two more basic problems for integration are: \(a each department has several IT applications and each application has its own meaning of different objects e.g. citizens, staff\ and \(b\ch application has data that overlaps data in other applications. This partial 
redundancy generates significant data integrity problems  In the last decade, several public sector organisations \(e.g. LGAs\ turned to Enterprise Resource Planning \(ERP\mplementations in an attempt to surmount the Year 2000 \(Y2K\roblem and automate their business processes lth o u g h  ERP systems have addressed the Y2K problem, they only provide a partial solution for the integration problem h e reas on is  t h at E R P sy s t e m s  w e re not designed to integrate disparate systems but rather to replace them to achieve integration Themistocleous 
et al  e ports th at th ere i s an increasing demand to integrate the IT infrastructures in LGAs. This demand comes from unlike categories of stakeholders in LGAs like employees and managers, citizens, and businesses. All of them seek to ease their transactions with LGAs. In this context LGAs have realised their IT infrastructure limitations and are seeking ways to improve their efficiency, to provide better services to citizens. Literature indicates that government initiatives still need better integration solutions T h e n eed f o r integration may be attributed to several government 
projects that were either never implemented or abandoned immediately after implementation. Due to this many problems such as data integration and security interoperability that are technical in nature remain most apparent at developmental and functional levels [10   LGAs are constrained and face difficulties in: \(a overcoming their organisational and integration Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


 problems, \(b\iding qu ality services to citizens and \(c\mproving their performance and productivity. Literature indicates that governments are increasingly challenged to respond more flexibly to issues confronting local communities [17, 36   Thus, there is a need for a technology that provides a solution to LGAs that attempts to meet their organisations requirements and integration problems Since EAI is a new research area within LGAs, the review on the EAI adoption area indicates gap in the normative literature. For this reason at this point the absence of theoretical model and research regarding its adoption in LGAs is identified as research issue for further investigation. The remaining structure of the paper is as follows: Section 2 proposes a novel conceptual model for EAI adoption in LGAs and discusses on four dimensions incorporated in the model. In Section 3, the authors discuss on the research methodology undertaken. Section 4 presents the case data and tests the research issues. Section 5 discusses and revises the conceptual model and finally summarising the conclusions in Section 6  2. Proposing a Novel Conceptual Model for EAI Adoption in LGAs  Despite several private and public organisations have adopted EAI, its application in LGAs is limited This may show that LGAs develop EAI solutions at a slower pace and they can be characterised as a laggard comparing. The small number of EAI applications in LGAs has resulted in limited research with many issues, like its adoption requiring further research. Literature indicates various models analysing factors influencing EAI adoption in the private and public domain [3, 16, 22  T h e applicability and validity of these models is arguable and under research in LGAs, as these were proposed to support the decision-making process in other sectors and not in LGAs. To the best of the authors  knowledge, none of these existing models explored the mapping and importance of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases. This paper makes a step forward and contributes to the body of knowledge as it presents the: \(a\factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs, \(b\ lifecycle phases, \(c\mapping of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases and \(d prioritisation of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases. Thus, proposing a novel model for EAI adoption in LGAs. The authors claim that such an EAI adoption process is vital and novel as: it extends established norms for EAI adoption, by employing Analytical Hierarchy Process \(AHP\nique for prioritising the factors, thus, enabling LGAs to produce more robust proposals for EAI adoption  2.1. Factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs  The model comprises of twenty one factors based on the EAI and government literature. For example, factors identified from the EAI literature are cost  benefits  barriers  internal pressures  external pressures  IT infrastructure  IT sophistication, IT support and evaluation frameworks Factors identified from the government literature are formalisation  centralisation  managerial capabilities  project championship  personnel IT knowledge  technological risks  data privacy and security  higher administrative authority support  return on investments  critical mass  market knowledge  citizen satisfaction  size and top management support These factors have been categorised according to Pressure Factors \(PF Technological Factors \(TF\, Support Factors \(SF Financial Factors \(FF\ and Organisational Factors OF\he authors suggest that while adopting EAI in LGAs, realising the factors influencing the decision making process may provide a deeper understanding on EAI adoption process. Thus, the authors propose the following research issue for further investigation   Research Issue 1 EAI Adoption Factors Factors can influence the decision making process for EAI adoption in LGAs   2.2. Adoption Lifecycle Phases  Paul et al  ugg es t s th at tec h n o logy adoption can be comprehended as an organisation s decision to acquire a specific technology and make it available to target users for their task performance Adoption lifecycle involves a sequence of distinct and consecutive phases an organisation passes through before taking the decision to adopt a technology t h is reg a rd, R o g e r s 27 explains that adoption lifecycle is the process through which an individual or other decisionmaking unit passes from first knowledge of an innovation, to forming an attitude toward the innovation, to a decision to adopt or reject, to implementation of the new idea, and to confirmation of this decision. Several other researchers proposed different adoption processes h es e research studies illustrate the importance of adoption lifecycles, however, these adoption studies also discuss on phases beyond the adoption phase However, it is not the intent of the authors to discuss on the phases beyond the adoption phase. The reason is that as the current research investigates on EAI adoption not on EAI implementation and other Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  phases ahead of implementation. After analysing the literature [15, 7 th e au t h ors propos e th at f o u r  phases are important while adopting technologies such as: \(a\motivation, \(b\ception, \(c\osal and \(d\ption decision and explained as below Motivation signifies the state when an organisation becomes aware of a technology and attempts to acquire knowledge about the technology This leads to motivating the organisation in ascertaining an attitude towards its adoption [2, 13 15 Conception  refers to a plan of action that the organisation should pursue. In highly innovative organisations presumably this phase is exhibited by several organisational members such as creating an attitude towards technology adoption [2, 13, 15  Proposal  refers to the making a formal proposition for technology adoption to the rest of the organisation [2, 13, 15 Pr opos i n g t h e i n n o v a t i v e  idea to the rest of the organisation is very crucial for making technology adoption decision Adoption Decision  is the actual phase where the organisations take the decision to adopt a specific technology [2 13, 15 T h e ado p tion ph as e s  m i gh t be con s idered while adopting EAI to extend the current research in EAI adoption. Therefore, the authors propose the following research issue for further investigation  Research Issue 2 Adoption Lifecycle Phases LGAs can pass through several adoption lifecycle phases while adopting EAI  2.3. Mapping EAI adoption factors on the adoption lifecycle phases  The research conducted hitherto indicates that the process of EAI adoption and use in different sectors [3, 16, 22, 32 T h e e x is t i ng s t u d ies on E A I  adoption have investigated on factors, actors and the causal relationship among and between them. Yet from a conceptual and empirical point of view, none of the existing studies related to EAI adoption has investigated the mapping of the factors influencing EAI adoption process on the adoption lifecycle phases. The authors consider this as a literature gap and report that it is important to manage the EAI adoption process in LGAs. This can be attributed to several reasons e.g.: \(a\I is very often considered as high-risk project [12 b  eration of E A I  technologies o n v ers e l y  L G A s are  characterised as laggards and often resist to the technological changes, however, these changes should thus be managed as their importance in bringing change in the organisation is vital [33, 23   The authors assert that it is vital to study the mapping of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases Along with the factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs, their mapping on the adoption lifecycle phases also make a novel contribution at the conceptual level. The authors suggest that while adopting EAI, realising the factors influencing EAI adoption on the adoption lifecycle phases may provide much deeper comprehension to the LGA decision makers. Thus, the authors propose the following research issue for further investigation  Research Issue 3 - Mapping EAI Adoption Factors Influential factors for EAI adoption can be mapped on different adoption lifecycle phases to support the decision makers while adopting EAI  2.4. Prioritising the importance of EAI adoption factors on the adoption lifecycle phases  In the context of decision making in LGAs several IT projects involve distributed decisionmaking based on a division of control and powers, as opposed to private organisation that have direct and undivided power over decisions within their span of control [12, 18, 37 G A  s t ru c t u r es  bu s i n e s s  processes and functions are often difficult to change as hierarchical bureaucratic structures often reflect a commitment to outmoded cultural values emphasizing risk aversion and valuing control of functional silos [23, 30 e to th is L G A s  f aced failures in several IT projects and the loss of IT investments resulting from inadequacies in making the business case  a tech n i cal pers pecti v e  EAI projects have many significant differences comparing to other IT projects h e ration a le f o r using EAI is not to build a system from scratch but to piece together multiple incompatible and in many cases heterogeneous applications [31, 17   T hus t h e  emphasis is on the integration of existing systems and not on the development of new systems. EAI projects bring a chain of organisational changes in terms of structure, process control and workflow. These changes are deeper comparing to the other IT projects as they impact multiple systems, departments and employees and organisations itself EAI is recognised as an emerging solution to architecture design integrating previously separated and isolated systems to give them greater leverage and improve their performance [12, 17 s e v e ral  researchers proposing EAI adoption factors, it may appear impractical for LGAs to devote their efforts to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 concurrently address and comprehend the factors Partly, this can also be attributed to the lack of indepth understanding and knowledge on EAI in LGAs  T h is m a y requ ire cons i d erin g t h e prioritisation of factors and identifying the importance of factors 19, 30 a m an d C h i n 18] su pport t h at det e r m i n i n g the importance of factors enables organisations to develop priorities and in turn, improve their decision making process. Salmeron and Herrero [30 d  Saaty at org an is at ion s  m a y n e ed to consider the judgements of several individuals while performing the prioritisation of factors. Due to their diverse roles and responsi bilities, backgrounds and objectives, individuals may present different judgements on the prioritisation of the factors [11  T h e div e rs e j u dg e m ents  are accom m odated an d  synthesized by using the AHP technique [19, 30   The existing studies on EAI adoption have studied on factors demonstrating the causal inter-relationships between the EAI adoption factors, actors and factors with the causal relationship among and between  them, research studies on the business perspectives 17, 31 d tech n i cal ca pabilities of E A I i n  integrating IT infrastructure a  conceptual and empirical viewpoint, none of these studies have investigated on prioritising the importance of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases. Thus, the authors propose the following research issue for further investigation  Research Issue 4 - Prioritising EAI Adoption Factors Prioritising the factors based on their importance on the adoption lifecycle phases can influence EAI adoption in LGAs   Figure 1 illustrates the conceptual EAI adoption model in LGAs while RI 1, RI 2, RI 3 and RI  4 representing the Research Issues. This model may assist in improving the level of analysis for EAI adoption and supporting LGAs while adopting EAI     Figure 1: Proposed Conceptual Model for EAI Adoption in LGAs  3. Research Methodology  This paper attempts to investigate on EAI adoption in LGAs. The authors have followed an interpretive, qualitative case study approach to conduct this research. Interpretitivism stance was adopted, as the aim of this paper is to validate the proposed EAI adoption model. An interpretivism stance allows the authors to navigate and better explain this phenomenon. The authors suggest that a qualitative approach is more appropriate as it can be used to: \(a\estigate less acknowledged phenomena like EAI in LGAs, \(b\alidate the conceptual EAI adoption model, \(c\amine the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


  phenomenon in its natural setting, \(d\ide considerable flexibility during interviews and observations and, \(e\rom practice. In the this paper, a single case study was conducted at LGA_A Case studies enable the researchers to investigate a phenomenon in depth, getting close to the phenomenon, providing rich primary data and revealing its deep structure within the organisational context. In doing so, various data collection methods such as interviews, documentation, and observation were used based on a detailed questionnaire Three participants from LGA_A were interviewed using structured \(and semi-structured or unstructured\nterviews. Structured interviews were based on the interview agenda. Semi-structure interviews took place without the use of an interview agenda. Using these interviews the authors attempted to clarify some issues that derived from structured interviews. All the structure or semi-structured interviews took place at interviewees office Unstructured interviews dealt with discussions that the authors had with interviewees but without using a structured or semi-structured interview. The authors had unstructured interviews during lunches, coffee breaks, out of office hours. Using unstructured interviews some important data regarding the case studies were collected. All of the interviews were tape recorded and transcripts prepared after each individual interview. Tape recording supported the authors in collecting accurate data and interpreting them without time pressures.  The bias considered as a danger in using qualitative research approach is overcome by data triangulation. The use of multiple data collection methods makes the triangulation possible, which provides stronger substation of theory th is res earch a b  methodological and, \(c\terdisciplinary triangulation, types of triangulation were used  4. Case Data  To test the aforesaid research issues, a series of case studies were undertaken in the United Kingdom UK\GAs with this section reporting the case of one of them. For confidentiality reasons the authors employ the coded-name as LGA_A to refer to this entity. Structured, semi-structured and unstructured interviews were conducted in LGA_A to investigate EAI adoption. The views from only those stakeholders were deemed that were involved in EAI adoption and evaluation, as it was not possible to interview all the stakeholders. From LGA_A, the stakeholders that were interviewed included: Head of IT \(HIT\enior Development Engineer \(SDE\nd Service Delivery Manager \(SDM  Integration Problems LGA_A is a big borough and has several service areas \(departments Each service area has its own IT infrastructure LGA_A consisted of numerous heterogeneous IS that were based on a diversity of platforms, operating systems, data structures and computer languages These individual applications were not developed in a coordinated way but instead evolved as a result of the latest technological innovation. This led to incompatible systems with integration problems. The need for an integrated and flexible IT infrastructure has been necessitated with the existing infrastructure causing numerous problems. These problems became an obstacle as they prevented it from implementing its business goals Motivations for EAI Adoption LGA_A took the decision to advance in their service delivery by adopting EAI to develop an integrated IT infrastructure. This decision has been widely supported by the UK central government. The analysis of relevant documents related to LGA_A indicate that LGA_A had immense pressure from the central government. This pressure can be signified as external pressure for providing integrated service delivery.  To this end, it appears that the problems with IT infrastructure in LGA_A and the central government influence formed a kind of external and internal pressures. External pressures appear to deal with citizens and other government agencies and councils where internal pressures focus on factors such as managerial and technical issues, with HIT supporting these factors as vital for EAI adoption These finding validate the literature that support the \(a\ infrastructure, \(b\ternal and \(c\ternal pressures as factors that influence the decision making process for EAI adoption [3 G A _ A initiated a plan for developing a pilot project. The motivation was to address the limitations of its existing systems, and to meet the targets set by the central government. The objective of this pilot project was to demonstrate to LGA_A and to other LGAs that investing in a long-term programme of integration between packaged systems and legacy applications is necessary. On this basis the adoption of such integration architecture within LGA_A and other LGAs will deliver measurable business benefit The members involved in this project had their rational motivations behind supporting the decision for EAI adoption. It appears that internal as well as external pressures influence the decision making process for EAI adoption in LGA_A. Another factor that appears to influence the adoption of enterprise application integration is related to the organisational IT capability i.e. IT infrastructure limitations in LGA_A EAI Adoption Process LGA_A was faced with the option of withdrawing their various systems away Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 and start developing integrated systems again, or finding a method of migrating to a new generation of systems, which would support integration. Due to the rich source of information contained in them and to make development more manageable, the second option was chosen. Hence, in 2004 LGA_A started examining available solutions to meet the challenge for developing a standardised, flexible, integrated and homogeneous IT infrastructure. After reviewing these solutions, LGA_A took the decision to introduce ERP systems to solve their integration problems and provide better services. Also, LGA_A was aiming at integrating its business processes through an ERP solution. However, soon LGA_A realised that ERP systems cannot communicate with other packaged systems and have limitations, as they cannot exchange information with other vendor applications The insufficient nature of their IT infrastructure and the need for integration led LGA_A to revisit their strategies for developing integrated IT infrastructure. Thus, the top management formed an ambitious vision aiming at: \(a\abling integration internally and externally; \(b\ieving effective and efficient joined up government and \(c\abling electronic request and delivery of services. As a result, supporting the decision making process for EAI adoption. LGA_A did not take the decision to fully integrate the borough since such a solution had a high cost. SDE reported that the plan for developing an integrated IT infrastructure on a large scale was considered of high risk as there is no single integration technology or software package that supports the development of an integrated IT infrastructure and there is a lack of knowledge in LGA_A regarding on EAI solutions. This indicates that barriers like the lack of knowledge on EAI and the lack of a single EAI product that solves all integration problems, influenced their decisions As the plans for integrating LGA_A were not completely justified, its top management suggested a pilot to be run and evaluate its outcome. The pilot demonstrates that the integration is technically feasible, can deliver significant benefits to LGA_A and may assist in extracting relevant EAI barriers and risks. Such a decision is supported by the literature  G A _ A  h oped th at t h en central g o v e rnm ent would recognise the success and importance of the project and award it National Project status. As the decision was taken to adopt EAI solution for the pilot project and for other projects in future, the interviewees was asked to comment on whether what factors negatively and positively affected the EAI adoption process. HIT and SDM replied that   most vital negative factor was the silo mentality among our older staff members that resisted to such a change in the department this was also because there were insufficient technical skills and expertise to do integration and our staff lacked understanding of business integration for this reason we had to invest money to train our staff to build integration skills   The HIT also reported on positive factors   despite there were some problems but when systems integrated through EAI, the systems physically got better and everybody saw that the working conditions and our resources are improving i.e. performance as well as the systems improved. As a consequence of doing this the moral of the staff improved and communication and information sharing was enhanced   In the next section, the authors present the testing of research issues and highlighting the empirical results  4.1. Testing Research Issue 1 Factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs  Table 1 provides with the analysis of the factors using Miles and Huberman cale o f le s s  important medium important d most important d where the interviewees did not respond, the researcher uses symbol to illustrate as no response  Table 1: Validating EAI Adoption Factors   EAI Adoption Factors HIT SDE SDM PF Project Champion  Citizen s Satisfaction   Critical Mass  Market Knowledge   TF Evaluation Frameworks  Technological Risks    IT Infrastructure  Personnel IT Knowledge   IT Sophistication  Data Security and Privacy    SF Top Management Support  IT Support  Higher Administrative Authority  FF Return on Investment    Cost  OF Centralisation    Managerial Capability  Barriers    Benefits  Formalisation    Size  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  4.2. Testing Research Issue 2 Adoption Lifecycle Phases  The interviewees were asked to comment and illustrate the importance of the aforesaid adoption lifecycle phases based on the EAI project. Initially all the interviewees agreed that these phases are very important. For example SDE reported that  yes these phases are very important with a perfect breakdown and we faced these phases in EAI project   Whereas, HIT reported that  proposal and adoption decision phases are vital and are the physical aspects whereas motivation and conception are not inevitably physical aspects unless you got a fairly refined strategic approach to what you want to do   SDM stated that before the motivation phase they also faced external driver phase in the project LGA_A was driven by some external influences e.g pressure from central government to improve their service delivery. Due to such influences, LGA_A was motivated to run a pilot project. In addition, the senior development support engineer and the HIT stated that they faced another phase before the proposal phase such as the discussion phase and the research phase respectively. After discussing on these phases with the interviewees, it appears that both have the same underlying meaning i.e  before adoption decision phase we may have research phase by research this we mean that we do some sort of discussions to run a pilot case study and this could be before the proposal phase. The reason to bring this phase before proposal is that if we need resources that actually enable us to do the pilot study, then we might need to take the decision to get the money to do it   After analysing all the interviews, the authors noted that external driver phase can be same as motivation phase. The reason is that an organisation may be motivated to take a step when it is either influenced internally due to some problem or externally through some stakeholders influence Whereas, the discussion or research phase may also be the same as proposal phase. The rationale is that in proposal phase e.g. the departments making decisions to adopt technology need to some sort of research and provide substantiated reasons for approval from the organisation based on the research, besides this the departments need to analyse their requirements and assess their capabilities for acquiring a technology Thus, the interviewees were asked to illustrate the importance of the adoption lifecycle phases. The importance of each phase is presented in Table 2  Table 2: Importance of Adoption Lifecycle Phases  Adoption Lifecycle Phases HIT SDE SDM Motivation  Conception  Proposal    Adoption Decision   4.3. Testing Research Issue 3 Mapping EAI adoption factors on adoption lifecycle phases  Before commencing on the mapping of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases, the interviewees were explained how to perform the mapping Thereafter, the interviewees were asked to map the factors influencing EAI adoption on different phases of the adoption lifecycle. The interviewees went through a rigorous thinking process and mapped the factors \(based on its influence\ each phase of the adoption lifecycle. Table 3 illustrates the results of the mapping of factors for motivation phase only The factors with less \(i.e. one interviewee supporting and other two not\ and no \(i.e. none of the interviewees supporting\ support are discarded. The reason is that these factors had less influence or did not influence on a specific phase. On the other hand factors with full \(i.e. all three interviewees supporting\ and moderate \(i.e. two interviewees supporting and third not supporting\ support are utilised for further empirical research  Table 3: Summarising the Factors with Full or Moderate Support on the Motivation Phase  Motivation Phase  Factors HIT SDE SDM PF Project Champion    Citizen s Satisfaction    Critical Mass    TF IT Sophistication    Data Security and Privacy    SP Top Management Support    Higher Administrative Authority    FF Return on Investment    OF Benefits    Size    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 4.4. Testing Research Issue 4 Prioritising the importance of EAI adoption factors on the adoption lifecycle phases  Table 1 validates the factors using Miles and Huberman w h erea s, T a ble 3 illustrates th e  mapping of factors on the motivation phase of the adoption lifecycle. However, these tables do not illustrate the important of each factor on the adoption lifecycle phases. This section introduces AHP technique to prioritise the importance of factor influencing EAI adoption. Table 4 illustrates the global weights-based prioritisation of factors for example on only motivation phase \(due to the constraints on length of the paper, the authors did not include the prioritisation results of other three adoption lifecycle phases\ These weights are obtained by using the Expert Choice \(EC\ software and the conclusions drawn from them are the final results of the analysis of collective judgements provided by the panel of interviewees selected for LGA_A. The results presented in these tables do not mean that any factor is unimportant. It merely exhibits interviewees perceptions on the importance of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases  Table 4: Prioritising the Importance of Factors on the Motivation Phase  Prioritising Factors on the Motivation Phase Factor Categories Factors Prioritisation Result TF IT Sophistication 1\ 0.5963 SF Top Management Support 1\ 0.5963 PF Project Champion 2\ 0.5146 OF Benefits 3\ 0.4583 PF Citizen s Satisfaction 4\ 0.3568 OF Size 5\ 0.2083 PF Critical Mass 6\ 0.1293 TF Data Security and Privacy 7\ 0.0704 SF Higher Administrative Authority 7\ 0.0704 FF Return on Investment 8\ 0.0000  5. Discussions and Revision of the Model  According to the empirical findings, only two factors were not validated i.e. formalisation and evaluation framework. The reasons are: \(a\GA_A did not follow any formal procedure to assess EAI technological solution and \(b\ no evaluation framework was used to assess EAI technological solution but relied on the software vendor. Other factors have either directly or indirectly influenced the decision making process for EAI technological solution adoption. On the other hand, six new factors were identified such as \(a data consistence and project delivery timescale as internal pressure factors b stakeholder s pressure and competition as external pressure factors, \(c stakeholder s support as a support factors, and \(d central government grants  as a financial factor. Four new adoption lifecycle phases were also identified from the empirical findings from LGA_A: [\(a external driver and/or \(b driving force c discussion and/or \(d research phase  tern al driv e r or d r iv ing  f o rce ph a s e are prior to the motivation phase, discussion and or research phases are prior to the proposal phase whereas, adoption decision phase was also reported with a different term i.e investment phase. The findings illustrate that the role of factors, adoption lifecycle phases, mapping of factors and prioritising the importance EAI adoption factors on the adoption lifecycle phases had high importance during EAI adoption process in LGA_A Thus, the authors propose that while exploring EAI adoption in LGAs a\actors, \(b\ lifecycle phases, \(c\mapping of factors and \(d\oritising the importance of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases provides a deeper understanding of interrelationships within LGAs. In doing so, the revised proposed EAI adoption model may: \(a\ercome IT infrastructure limitations within LGAs, \(b\mprove the level of analysis and \(c\upport LGAs when adopting EAI  6. Conclusions  LGAs are complex organisations and are managed by the consent and rules set by the central government. They are influenced by other government authorities and ministries, and their IS adoption involve distributed decision-making based on a division of control and powers [17, 39   Conversely, private organisations have direct and undivided power over decisions and flexible management style with inter-departmental teams working in central coordination T h is  distinction illustrates that LGAs have a bureaucratic nature and are committed to outdated cultural values Such characteristics emphasize risk aversion and insist that structures enhance control rather than connected thinking with silos in LGAs, let alone between them reov er, each L G A dis p la y s  differences in the way: \(a\eir business processes are implemented to provide citizen services, and \(b makes its decisions that differs a lot from other private organisations h es e th eoris e d conceptions distinguish LGAs from other sectors EAI represents an attractive proposition to LGAs, since EAI offers the opportunity to leverage the systems into a seamless chain of processes and present a unified view of their information [12, 28  When such leveraging and presentation occurs, LGAs Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  may capitalise on their opportunities offered by LGA initiatives \(e.g. e-Government\se then they may efficiently interact with their citizens and other stakeholders on a consistent basis w e v e r EAI is an emerging area within LGAs, thus, there remains an absence of theoretical models, which means there is still a case for the identification of factors that affect the decision making process for EAI adoption and identification of adoption lifecycle phases, with the development of empirically validated underpinnings argued, justified and presented in this paper. The authors sought to address the established voids by proposing a novel conceptual model for EAI adoption in LGAs. The model takes into consideration the parame ters that were identified in the normative literature as influencing factors and adoption lifecycle phases. The proposed conceptual model is novel as it includes: \(a\e model consists of a set of factors influencing EAI adoption in LGA_A and incorporates factors identified separately in previous studies. These factors are used for the developing an EAI adoption model in LGAs, \(b\e model incorporates adoption lifecycle phases Empirical findings illustrate that LGA_A passed through these phases while adopting EAI, \(c\e model assimilates the mapping of factors influencing EAI adoption in LGA_A on the adoption lifecycle phases, and \(d\e model incorporates the prioritisation \(importance\ EAI adoption factors in LGA_A on the adoption lifecycle phases The model can be used as a tool for decisionmaking to support LGAs and allow decision makers and researchers to understand and analyse EAI adoption. The concepts of the proposed model can be used for the adoption of inter-organisational IS since such systems should focus on integrated technologies and infrastructures. An interpretive, qualitative case study approach was selected to conduct this research It is not the intention of this paper to offer prescriptive guidelines to EAI adoption but rather describe case study perspectives that allow other researchers to relate their experiences to those reported. Hence, offering a broader understanding of the phenomenon of EAI adoption in LGAs Therefore, the lessons learnt are a result of the description provided and do not seek to be prescriptive. These lessons are summarised below Lesson 1 The practical implications of the mapping of factors on adoption lifecycle phases are  this process can support in better understanding the factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs. This is vital as it can also support the managements  decision-making process while introducing EAI Lesson 2 Prioritising the importance of EAI adoption factors on adoption lifecycle phases can further enhance the decision making process in LGAs. During the mapping of factors, the importance of factors was not recognised Prioritising the factors can assist LGA officials in realising and understanding the factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs Lesson 3 Findings on the mapping of factors and prioritising the importance of factors on adoption lifecycle phases reflect that each interviewee from LGA_A has relatively different conception while mapping the factors and prioritising the importance of factors on adoption lifecycle phases. This may also illustrate that within different LGAs interviewees understanding, knowledge and ability to comprehend the importance of factors may differ Lesson 4 Findings related to the mapping of factors and prioritising the importance of factors cannot be generalised as they may also differ from one LGA to the other Hitherto, the authors highlighted the individual elements of the contributions and research novelty presented in this paper. However, at the wider context this research aimed to enhance the technical decision making process while adopting EAI technologies in LGAs. This was achieved by proposing and validating a novel model \(Figure 1 for EAI adoption in the practical arena \(LGA_A The key beneficiaries are the decision makers and practitioners within LGAs, and researchers within the academic community. All of these benefit from the research in this paper as a guideline to analyse and understand EAI adoption in LGAs. In doing so this research work significantly contributes to the body of knowledge and practice in the areas of EAI and the local government domain by providing sufficient support to the decision makers in speeding up the EAI adoption process in LGAs   7. References  1 A b ie H Foy n B., Bing J  Blobe l, B  P h a r ow P    Delgado, J., Karnouskos, S., Pitkanen, O. and Tzovaras, D The Need for a Digital Rights Management Framework for the Next Generation of E-Government Services  Electronic Government An International Journal 2004 1\(1\, pp. 8-28 2 Beck er, S. N. and W h i s l e r, T  L   The innovative organisation: a selective view of current theory and research  The Journal of Business 1967, 40\(4\, pp. 462469 3 Ch en H Adopting Emerging Integration Technologies in Organisations PhD Thesis, Department of Information Systems and Computing, Brunel University, London, UK 2005 4 D a v e nport T  H   Putting the Enterprise into the Enterprise Systems  Harvard Business Review 1998, pp 121-131 5 Eis e n ha rdt K  M  Building Theories from Case Study Research  Academy of Management Review 1989, 14\(4 pp. 532-550 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 6 Elm a g a r m i d, A  K  a nd   Mc Iv e r W  J  J r  The Ongoing March towards Digital Government  Computer  2001, 34\(2\, pp. 32-38 7 Fra m ba c h R. T  a nd Sc hille w a e r t, N Organisational innovation adoption: a multi-level framework of determinants and opportunities for future research  Journal of Business Research 2002, 55\(2\ pp. 163-76 8 G a lliv a n M. J Organisational adoption and assimilation of complex technological innovations development and application of a new framework  The DATABASE for Advances in Information Systems 2001 32\(3\, pp. 51-85 9 G a m p e r J  a nd A u g s te n, N   The Role of Web Services in Digital Government  2 nd International Conference on EGovernment Prague, Czech Republic, 2003, pp. 161-166 1 Heeks R  Reinventing Government in the Information Age Routledge, London, 1999 11 H u a n g  S  M   C h a n g  I C   L i  S  H  a n d L i n  M  T   Assessing risk in ERP projects: identify and prioritise the factors  Industrial Management and Data Systems 2004 104\(8\ pp. 681-688 1 Jan ssen  M  an d Cressw ell, A   An Enterprise Application Integration Methodology for E-Government  Journal of Enterprise Information Management 2005 18\(5\, pp. 531-547 13 Ka m a l, M. M., T h e m i s toc l e ous, M. a nd El lim a n T   Mapping Factors Influencing EAI Adoption in the Local Government Authorities on Different Phases of the Adoption Lifecycle  European and Mediterranean Conference on Information Systems Dubai, UAE, 2008 14 Ka m a l, M. M. a nd T h e m istoc l e ous M Investigating EAI Adoption in LGAs: A Case Study Based Analysis  13 th Americas Conference on Information Systems  Keystone, Colorado, 2007, pp. 1-13 15 K a m a l, M. M IT Innovation Adoption in the Government Sector: Identifying the Critical Success Factors  Journal of Enterprise Information Management  2006, 19\(2\, pp. 192-222 16 K h oum ba ti, K   Evaluating the Adoption of Enterprise Application Integration in Healthcare Organisations PhD Thesis, Department of Information Systems and Computing, Brunel University, London, UK, 2005 1 La m   W  Barriers to E-Government Integration  Journal of Enterprise Information Management 2005 18\(5\, pp. 511-530 18 L a m  P  K  a n d C h i n  K  S   Identifying and prioritising critical success fact ors for conflict management in collaborative new product development Industrial Marketing Management, 2005, 34, pp. 761-772 1 L ee J W   an d Ki m  S  H   Using analytic network process and goal programming for interdependent IS project selection  Computers & Operations Research  2000, 27, pp. 367-382 20 L i nthic u m  D   Enterprise Application Integration  Massachusetts, USA, Addison-Wesley, 2000 21 L ong o, J  R   The ABCs of Enterprise  EAI Journal  2001, pp. 56-58 2 M a nt zan a V  G   Investigating the Adoption of Enterprise Application Integration in Healthcare Organisations Using an Actor-Oriented Approach PhD Thesis, DISC, Brunel University, London, UK, 2006 23 Mc Iv or, R Mc H u g h M a nd Ca dde n  C Internet Technologies Supporting Transparency in the Public Sector  The International Journal of Public Sector Management 2002, 15\(3\. 170-187 24  Mile s  M. a nd H ube rm an, A   Qualitative Data Analysis: An Expanded Sourcebook   Sage, Newbury Park California, 1994 2  P a u l J-H H  C h an   P  Y K an d S h en g O R L   Investigation of factors affecting healthcare organization s adoption of telemedicine technology  33 rd Annual Hawaii International Conference on  Systems Sciences 2000, pp. 110 26  Pus c hm a nn, T  a nd A lt, R Enterprise Application Integration The Case of the Robert Bosch Group  34 th  Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences  Maui, 2001, pp. 1-10 2 R o ger s  E  M  19 95   Diffusion of Innovations 4 th ed The Free Press, New York, NY 2 R u h W   M a gi n n i s, F  a n d B r o w n  W  Enterpriser Application Integration New York, USA, Wiley John Wiley & Sons Inc, 2001 29  Saaty  T  L   The Analytic Hierarchy Process Planning, Priority Setting: Resource Allocation McGrawHill, New York, 1980 30  Sa lm e r on, J  L  a nd H e r r e r o, I An AHP-based methodology to rank critical success factors of executive information systems  Computer Standards & Interfaces  2005, 28, pp. 1-12 31 T h e m is toc l e ous M. a n d Ira ni, Z Towards a Methodology for the Development of Integrated IT Infrastructures In Sprague, R. J. \(Eds 39 th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Los Alamitos, California, [CD Proceedin 20 06   p p  4 7   3 T h em i s t o cl eo u s  M   Justifying the decisions for EAI implementations: A validated proposition of influential factors  Journal of Enterprise Information Management  2004, 17\(2\, pp. 85-104 33 T h e m is toc l e ous M., Ira ni Z  a nd K u lj is J   Extending the Information System Lifecycle through Enterprise Application Integration: A Case Study Experience  37 th  Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Big Island, Hawaii, 2004, pp. 1-8 3 T h em i s t o cl eo u s  M   Iran i  Z   O Keefe, R. M. and Paul, R ERP Problems and Application Integration Issues: An Empirical Survey  34 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Maui, Hawaii, 2001 3 V i n o s ki  S   Where is middleware  IEEE Internet Computing 2002, 6\(2\ 83-5 36 W a l s h  P   Improving Government s Response to Local Communities is Place Management an Answer  Australian Journal of Public Administration 2001, 60\(2 pp. 3-12 37 W a rd, M  A  a nd Mi tc he ll S A comparison of the strategic priorities of public and private sector information resource management executives  Government Information Quarterly 2004, 21\(2\ 284-304 3 W i mm er M  A   A European perspective towards online one-stop government: the E-Gov project  Electronic Commerce Research and Applications 2002 1\(1\, pp. 92-103 39 W o rra ll, L   Justifying investment in GIS: a local government perspective  International Journal of Geographical Information Science 1994, 8\(6\. 545565  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Figure 9 also highlights the difficulty in designing a dynamic algorithm that is stable for most network configurations For data point 5 and 9 jitter is difficult to predict based on the AR PRESET This variability is most likely a result of the tolerance mechanism presenting artifacts during certain network configurations If the algorithm chooses too aggressively for too many data flows the contention parameters are set more aggressively and performance in the network suffers Although jitter remains better than NoDiff for all data points in Figure 9 providing more consistent behavior should be a primary goal for future versions of the AA SD Video Jitter 0.07 0.06 0.05  0.04  0.03 0.02 0.01 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Number of VCT and TS Nodes Figure 10 SD Video Jitter The average jitter for SD video is shown in Figure 10 This data represents a lower priority level and as compared to voice jitter in Figure 9 is able to provide better predictability The data still shows that performance for AA experiences greater variability than Normal but over most data points is better than both NoDiff and Normal HD video performance is similar to SD but has greater overall jitter and is therefore not shown Telemetry Jitter o 045 o 04 4 NoDiff Normal 0 035 AA 0 03 025 0  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Number of VCT Nodes 11 0.015 0.01 0.0050 Figure 11 Telemetry Jitter In Figure 11 which shows the jitter for Telemetry the data exhibits similar characteristics as the data for voice jitter Due to inconsistencies in the settling of the algorithm performance does not follow the same curve as NoDiff or Normal however for most data points the performance is better than NoDiff Figure 12 Command Round Trip Time The RTT for Command data is shown in Figure 12 Similar conclusions can be drawn from this data as have been discussed previously This data also exhibits greater variability than Normal and better overall performance than NoDiff The behavior of AA closely resembles that of AA in Figure 11 which reinforces the conclusion that the builtin hysteresis of the algorithm does not fully accommodate all network configurations Overall the Adaptive Algorithm is able to meet its goals of being a distributed way to dynamically manage priority and still perform similarly to static prioritization and better than no differentiation at all The self correcting characteristic of the algorithm leads to increased variability in performance which in some cases such as extreme network load causes the Adaptive Algorithm to perform significantly worse than static prioritization On the other hand network throughput is improved when the network is under-utilized because the Adaptive Algorithm is only engaged when performance requirements are not being met When viewed as a trade-off between simplicity of deployment and performance benefits over non-prioritized networks the Adaptive Algorithm can provide significant value to network architects and TS 


9 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK We have presented an extension to 802.1l e that dynamically adapts the contention parameters to meet performance requirements of lunar communications We have explored the capacity of 802.1lg using dynamic 802.1le to handle VoIP command telemetry and video according to their respective QoS requirements The data presented here shows that the Adaptive Algorithm can be deployed in these scenarios to effectively manage priority without a complicated centralized infrastructure This capability will be essential for short-range lunar communications in that quick deployment will be a primary goal The prevalence of 802.11 hardware and the possibility of the 2.4GHz band to perform at long and short ranges make it a viable option for future lunar networks However priority will be a necessity especially if the network carries non-critical traffic alongside mission-critical VoIP and data Future work on the algorithm will include improvement to the tolerance mechanism to reduce added contention from over-adjustment It is possible that more testing with more conservative settings will result in less variable network conditions at the expense of faster convergence Although we feel that the algorithm presented here is important we believe it is not the total solution It has been shown in previous works that in general 802.1 le increases contention in the network which results in overall lower throughput The Adaptive Algorithm does alleviate this disadvantage for some scenarios but not all Other works show that 802.1 le under the HCCA can solve the problem of throughput at the expense of simplicity and rapid deployment Therefore we expect that many 802.11 e deployments will use a mix of pure EDCA and HCCA in addition to using EDCA as a backup measure for HCCA Having an efficient and simple way to use ECDA will provide network architects with greater flexibility and will further reduce dependence on proprietary network design as we move towards expansion beyond the Earth 10 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research described in this paper was carried out at Clemson University under the South Carolina Space Grant Consortium Research and Education Awards Program REAP and at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 1 ANSI/IEEE Std 802.1 lb 1999 Edition IEEE Standard for Information technologyTelecommunications and Information exchange between systems Local and metropolitan area networks Specific requirements Part 11 IEEE 1999 2 ANSI/IEEE Std 802.1 le 1999 Edition IEEE Standard for Information technologyTelecommunications and Information exchange between systems Local and metropolitan area networks Specific requirements Part 11 Amendment 8 IEEE 1999 3 Wi-Fi CERTIFIED for WMM Support for Multimedia Applications with Quality of Service in Wi-Fi Networks Wi-Fi Alliance September 1 2004 4 Swaminathan Arvind and James Martin 2006 Fairness Issues in Hybrid 802.1 lb/e Networks Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2006 3rd IEEE Vol 1 Issue 8-10 50-54 5 Wietholter Sven and Hoene Christian 2003 Design and Verification of an IEEE 802.1 le EDCA Simulation Model in ns-2.26 TKN Technical Report Series Technical University Berlin November 2003 6 Cali F M Conti E Gregori 2000 Dynamic Tuning of the IEEE 802.11 Protocol to Achieve a Theoretical Throughput Limit IEEE/ACM Transactions On Networking Vol 8 No 6 December 2000 785-799 7 Cali F M Conti E Gregori 2000 IEEE 802.11 Protocol Design and Performance Evaluation of an Adaptive Backoff Mechanism IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications Vol 18 No 9 September 8 Chen D S Garg M Kappes K Trivedi 2002 Supporting VBR VoIP Traffic in IEEE 802.11 WLAN in PCF Mode Center for Advanced Computing and Communications ECE Department Duke University Durham NC Avaya Labs Research New Jersey 9 Siris Vasilios and Stamatakis George 2006 Optimal CWmin Selection for Achieving Proportional Fairness in Multi-Rate 802.1 le WLANs Test-bed Implementation and Evaluation International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking WiNTECH 06 10 He Dajiang and Charles Shen 2003 Simulation Study of IEEE 802.1l e EDCA Vehicular Technology Conference Spring 2003 Vol 1 685-689 12 ILREFERENCES 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


14 is particularly challenging It is noteworthy that these translations may well be haptic and audible as well as visual A final building block for the disseminated user interface is the development of advanced packaging techniques for assembly of the HSI components into sufficiently small packages that may be unobtrusively introduced into crew quarters and crew clothing so that their use requires little or no special setup before operation Power sources and lightweight batteries would be needed as well compatible with the spacecraft environment Changing your shirt may also change your batteries for the wearable sensors Intelligent agents are a focus for many of the activities of the Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Several demonstrations of early prototypes have been performed so this area is considered one for development rather than just research 7. C ONCLUSIONS Inflatable spacecraft represent a revolutionary way of creating viable living and operations volume for humans engaged in exploration missions providing increased usable volume with reduced launch mass and volume They can potentially increase resistance to micrometeorite and space radiation hazards over conventional aluminum structures while being more flexible for reconfiguration from transit to habitat modes Challenges maintaining avionics operation during dynamic changes from stowed to deployed state during inflation providing feedthroughs between the inner and outer surface of the pressure vessel and for monitoring the health of the inflatable fabric itself can be met by applying innovations in the areas of avionics architecture intelligent sensors, human-system interfaces and spacecraft information interaction, currently in the research and development phase These innovations leverage the capabilities of each other to provide new concepts for the operation of long duration human spacecraft MAA is based on a massively redundant peer-to-peer construct providing much higher fault tolerance and higher computational performance Intelligent sensors have the potential for dramatically reducing sensor failures and inaccuracies again by employing many redundant elements with internal cross-checking of function and accuracy MAA directly supports roaming mobile HSI and its excess computational power can be used for hosting intelligent agent technology for information management and access The use of wireless networks and wireless power distribution directly supports inflatable spacecraft by eliminating inflexible cables and feedthroughs across the pressure vessel An innovative operations concept for transit vehicle piloting operation and maintenance was outlined incorporating these technologies providing virtual cockpits for vehicle operation, augmented reality for complex support activities and unobtrusive interfaces for common activities Design guidelines for constructing such HSI systems were presented consistent with current human factors practice The use of intelligent agents nicely complements advanced HSI allowing natural interaction between crew and spacecraft systems and payloads, effectively increasing crew size Technology for implementing proof-of-concept prototypes already exists Significant improvement in performance power consumption size mass and cost are required for all elements but are anticipated to be achieved using modern semiconductor advances Packaging and hardening for the space environment will remain serious challenges Critical advances in software architecture and algorithms will be needed to integrate these widely dispersed assets into a coherent system capable of maintain function despite failures and changing mission conditions In many ways the system architecture described is a good host for developing and testing many advanced software concepts Agent-based design in general may help coordinate many of the loosely-coupled modules and functions identified Successful implementation of this architecture and complementary features can lead to more robust inflatable spacecraft, increasing the performance and capabilities of the spacecraft and its crew during the conduct of exploration missions to the moon and Mars 


15 R EFERENCES  1  h t t p    w w w  b i g e l o w a e r o s p a c e  c o m  o u t _ t h e r e   2  h t t p    s p a c e f l i g h t  n a s a  g o v  h i s t o r y  s t a t i o n  t r a n s h a b  3  322 A v i o n i c s  A p p l i c a t i o n  S o f t w a r e  S t a n d a r d  I n t e r f a c e 323  A R I N C  6 5 3  S t a n d a r d   2 0 0 6  A R I N C  6 5 3  S t a n d a r d  4  I E E E  S t d  1 4 5 1  1 1 9 9 9  I E E E  S t a n d a r d  f o r  a  S m a r t T r a n s d u c e r  I n t e r f a c e  f o r  S e n s o r s  a n d  A c t u a t o r s  320  N e t w o r k C a p a b l e  A p p l i c a t i o n  P r o c e s s o r  I n f o r m a t i o n  M o d e l  I n s t r u m e n t a t i o n  a n d  M e a s u r e m e n t  S o c i e t y   T C 9  I n s t i t u t e  o f  E l e c t r i c a l  a n d  E l e c t r o n i c  E n g i n e e r s   N e w Y o r k   N Y  1 0 0 1 6 5 9 9 7   S H 9 4 7 6 7   A p r i l  1 8   2 0 0 0   5  I E E E  S t d  1 4 5 1  2 1 9 9 7  I E E E  S t a n d a r d  f o r  a  S m a r t T r a n s d u c e r  I n t e r f a c e  f o r  S e n s o r s  a n d  A c t u a t o r s  320 T r a n s d u c e r  t o  M i c r o p r o c e s s o r  C o m m u n i c a t i o n  P r o t o c o l s a n d  T r a n s d u c e r  E l e c t r o n i c  D a t a  S h e e t   T E D S   f o r m a t s  I n s t r u m e n t a t i o n  a n d  M e a s u r e m e n t  S o c i e t y   T C 9  I n s t i t u t e  o f  E l e c t r i c a l  a n d  E l e c t r o n i c  E n g i n e e r s   N e w Y o r k   N Y  1 0 0 1 6 5 9 9 7   S H 9 4 5 6 6   S e p t e m b e r  2 5   1 9 9 8   6  F e r n a n d o  F i g u e r o a   R a n d y  H o l l a n d   J o h n  S c h m a l z e l   D a n D u n c a v a g e   R i c k  A l e n a   A l a n  C r o c k e r   322 I S H M I m p l e m e n t a t i o n  f o r  C o n s t e l l a t i o n  S y s t e m s  323  A I A A  2 0 0 6 4 4 1 0   4 2 n d  A I A A  A S M E  S A E  A S E E  J o i n t  P r o p u l s i o n C o n f e r e n c e    E x h i b i t   J u l y  9 1 2   2 0 0 6   S a c r a m e n t o C o n v e n t i o n  C e n t e r   S a c r a m e n t o   C A   7  H i e r o n y m u s   J   a n d  D o w d i n g   J     C l a r i s s a  S p o k e n D i a l o g u e  S y s t e m    A C T A  A s t r o n a u t i c a   2 0 0 6   8  F i s h e r   S   S    M c G r e e v y   M    H u m p h r i e s   J     R o b i n e t t  W    1 9 8 6    V i r t u a l  E n v i r o n m e n t  D i s p l a y  S y s t e m   A C M 1 9 8 6  W o r k s h o p  o n  3 D  I n t e r a c t i v e  G r a p h i c s   C h a p e l  H i l l  N o r t h  C a r o l i n a    2 3 2 4  O c t o b e r  1 9 8 6   A C M   p p   7 7 8 7   9  B r o o k s   F   B   J r    1 9 9 9   W h a t 325 s  r e a l  a b o u t  v i r t u a l  r e a l i t y  I E E E   C o m p u t e r  G r a p h i c s  a n d  A p p l i c a t i o n s   1 9    1 6 2 7   1 0  N o r m a n   D o n a l d  A    2 0 0 7   T h e  d e s i g n  o f  f u t u r e  t h i n g s  B a s i c  B o o k s   N e w  Y o r k   1 1  C l a n c e y   W  J   S i e r h u i s   M    A l e n a   R    C r a w f o r d   S   D o w d i n g    J    G r a h a m   J    K a s k i r i s   C    T y r e e   K   S    a n d v a n H o o f   R    2 0 0 4   M o b i l e  A g e n t s   A  d i s t r i b u t e d  v o i c e c o m m a n d e d  s e n s o r y  a n d  r o b o t i c  s y s t e m  f o r s u r f a c e  E V A  a s s i s t a n c e   I n  R   B   M a l l a  a n d  A   M a j i  e d s    E n g i n e e r i n g   C o n s t r u c t i o n    a n d  O p e r a t i o n s  i n C h a l l e n g i n g  E n v i r o n m e n t s   E a r t h  a n d  S p a c e  2 0 0 4   H o u s t o n   A S C E   p p   8 5 9 2  1 2  A l e n a  R    O s s e n f o r t  J    L e e  C    W a l k e r  E    S t o n e  T   322 D e s i g n  o f  H y b r i d  M o b i l e  C o m m u n i c a t i o n  N e t w o r k s  f o r P l a n e t a r y  E x p l o r a t i o n 323  I E E E  A e r o s p a c e  C o n f e r e n c e  2 0 0 4  B i g  S k y   M T   1 3  R i c h a r d  L   A l e n a   J o h n  P   O s s e n f o r t  I V   K e n n e t h  I  L a w s   A n d r e  G o f o r t h  322 C o m m u n i c a t i o n s  f o r  I n t e g r a t e d M o d u l a r  A v i o n i c s 323  I E E E  A e r o s p a c e  C o n f e r e n c e  2 0 0 7  B i g  S k y  M T   1 4  322 A i r c r a f t  D a t a  N e t w o r k  323  A R I N C  6 6 4  S t a n d a r d D o c u m e n t   2 0 0 2  B IOGRAPHY Richard L Alena is a Computer Engineer in the Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Mr Alena is currently working on the Mission Operations System for the LCROSS Lunar mission and on avionics architecture for a lander vehicle for human lunar missions He was the co-lead for the Advanced Diagnostic Systems for International Space Station ISS Project developing model-based diagnostic tools for space operations. He was the chief architect of a flight experiment conducted aboard Shuttle and Mir using laptop computers personal digital assistants and servers in a wireless network for the ISS He was also the technical lead for the Databus Analysis Tool for International Space Station on-orbit diagnosis He was group lead for Intelligent Mobile Technologies developing planetary exploration systems for field simulations Mr Alena holds an M.S in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California Berkeley He is the winner of the NASA Silver Snoopy Award in 2002 a NASA Group Achievement Award in 1998 for his work on the ISS Phase 1 Program Team and a Space Flight Awareness Award in 1997 Stephen R Ellis  headed the Advanced Displays and Spatial perception Laboratory at the NASA Ames Research Center between September 1989 and March 2006 and is currently a member of this group He received a Ph.D 1974 from McGill University in Psychology after receiving a A.B in Behavioral Science from U.C Berkeley He has had postdoctoral fellowships in Physiological Optics at Brown University and at U.C Berkeley  He has published on the topic of presentation and user interaction with spatial information in 170 journal publications and formal reports and has been in the forefront of the introduction of perspective and 3D displays into aerospace user interfaces In particular he has worked recently on kinesthetic techniques to improve cursor and manipulator control under difficult display control coordinate mappings He has served on the editorial boards of Presence  and Human Factors  and 


16 has edited a book Pictorial communication in virtual and real environments concerning the geometric and dynamics aspects of human interface to systems using spatial data.\(Taylor and Francis London 2nd Ed  1993 He was awarded a University Medal from Kyushu Sangyo University in Japan in 1992 Dougal Maclise  is currently the group lead for the ISHM Technology Maturation Group within the Intelligent Systems Division at Ames Research Center He has a Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering and a Masters degree in BioMedical Engineering Over the fifteen years that he has worked at NASA he has managed a wide variety of projects such as animal physiology experiment payloads for the Shuttle the consolidation of seven resource tracking databases a real-time imaging payload for the SolarPowered Pathfinder UAV and the development of the Advanced Diagnostics and Prognostics Testbed For the last five years he has focused on the systems engineering and application aspects of Integrated Systems Health Management while working on the Second Generation Reusable Launch Vehicle Orbital Space Plane and Next Generation Launch Technology projects.  He is currently the Information Systems lead for the Lunar Lander Project J a m e s  H i e r o n y m u s  i s U S R A  S e n i o r  S c i e n t i s t  i n t h e  C o l l a b o r a t i v e  a n d A s s i s t i v e  S y s t e m s   C A S  T e c h n i c a l  A r e a  w i t h i n  t h e I n t e l l i g e n t  S y s t e m s  D i v i s i o n a t  N A S A  A m e s    He was technical lead for the NASA team which developed the Clarissa spoken dialogue system that talks astronauts through executing complex procedures which has been installed for testing on the International Space Station  He worked with John Dowding on the EVITA EVA Intelligent Talking Assistants spoken dialogue system for lunar space suits The EVITA system forms a front end for the Mobile Agents system which keeps track of all of the assets on a lunar exploration mission assists in scheduling navigation sample gathering and commands robots H i s  P h D  i s  f r o m C o r n e l l  U n i v e r s i t y   m a s t e r s  d e g r e e  f r o m  U  C a l  S a n  D i e g o  a n d  B  S   f r o m  t h e  U n i v e r s i t y  o f  M i c h i g a n    H e  w a s  a  P o s t D o c  a t  t h e  S t a n f o r d  A I  L a b  w o r k i n g  o n  a u t o m a t i c  s p e e c h r e c o g n i t i o n    H e  h e l p e d  s t a r t  t h e  s p e e c h  l a b o r a t o r y  a t  N I S T  w a s  a  l i n g u i s t i c s  p r o f e s s o r  a t  U   o f  E d i n b u r g h  i n  t h e  C e n t r e f o r  S p e e c h  T e c h n o l o g y  R e s e a r c h   a  M e m b e r  o f  T e c h n i c a l  S t a f f i n  t h e  L i n g u i s t i c s  a n d  S p o k e n  D i a l o g u e  S y s t e m s  D e p a r t m e n t s a t  B e l l  L a b s   M u r r a y  H i l l   a n d  a Visiting Professor at the University of Gothenburg He joined NASA Ames in late 2000 


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


