The State of IT Governance in Organizations from the Public Sector in a Developing Country  Edephonce N. Nfuka Stockholm University  nfuka@dsv.su.se  Lazar Rusu Stockholm University  lrusu@dsv.su.se  Paul Johannesson   Stockholm University  pajo@dsv.su.se  Beda Mutagahywa University of Dar es Salaam bmutag@udsm.ac.tz   
Abstract  Today in many organizations in the public sector, the use of IT has become crucial in sustaining and extending the organizationsê st rategies and objectives This pervasive use of technology has caused a critical dependency on IT that calls for specific focus on the IT Governance. This paper discusses the current state of IT Governance practices in five public sector organizations from a developing country, like is Tanzania. The results of this research approach are looking into the IT Governance mechanisms in place in terms of structures, processes and relational mechanisms. Moreover the paper includes a discussion on the problems and consequences inherent to inhibitors of effective IT Governance for a further improvement of the public service delivery in this 
environment   1. Introduction Many organizations today rely on Information and Communication Technology \(ICT\d continue to make significant IT-enabled business investments [1   Public sector organizations are among them. This is due to, among other things, the constantly increasing demand for more efficient and cost-effective services for citizens, businesses and also among public organizations themselves and the continuing effort to embrace e-governmen  rth e r m ore th is  h a s  led to pervasiveness and dependency on IT in the 
current dynamic and often turbulent multiservice provision environments, where effective management of IT and its alignment with business goals is essential for the success The prudent management of such IT environment calls for IT Governance, which is the organizational capacity to plan and control the formulation and implementation of IT strategy to ensure fusion of business and IT am ple, th e MIT  C I SR s t u d y  on IT Governance related issues indicated that there is a 20% better return on IT-enabled business investments when effective IT Governance is in  
A need for effective IT Governance is also becoming essential in the public sector in developing countries, in which various adjustments of regulatory and commercial policies, both macroeconomic and within ICT s converging sector have been made and where the public sector organizations in particular experienced dramatic changes in the use of ICT  Today, there is general use of the computers, specific business applications and a variety of IT organizations in most of them. However, like in many developing nations these developments are coupled with a variety of fragmented IT initiatives and relatively lower IT 
deployment, management, literacy, culture and resources    Therefore this paper describes the state of IT Governance based on the results of ongoing research in five public sector organizations in Tanzania. Mainly it analyzes two important aspects. The first aspect assesses the current state of IT Governance mainly regarding the mechanisms in us d h o w th es e are  contributing to a better Governance of IT in the public sector in Tanzania. Moreover the analysis considers the practices along IT Governance key focus areas and key decision d l y t h e res e arc h addres s e s  IT Governance related problems and the potential 
consequences in the studied organizations  2. The studied organizations from the public sector in Tanzania In order to understand the IT Governance practices in the pubic sector, five organizations were selected. This was based on the level of IT deployment in the organizations and the multiplier effect in the services provided to the public and related organizations. By virtue of being public sector and in a developing country, the way they establish, use and manage ICT represents fairly the state of IT Governance in other organizations of similar set-up and environment. These 
organizations are the Tanzania Revenue Authority TRA\tores Department \(MSD\rime Minister s Office - Regional Administration and Local Government \(PMO-RALG\President s Office, Public Services Management \(PO-PSM\ and the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs \(MoFEA Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


TRA \(A is an authority liable for administration of central government revenues. Through its 1 st 2 nd and now 3 rd corporate strategic plans, various initiatives including IT have been implemented towards more efficient and cost-effective revenue collection. For example, while in 2003/04 about US$1.4 billion was collected by close to 3,457 employees, 46 being IT staff, in the last financial year, 2007/08, TRA expected to exceed the planned budget of about US$3.3 billion by almost the same number of employees. Also the authority has an organization-wide operating budget estimated at US$115m with IT using US$1.3m Computerization has been undertaken and a number of systems are in place such as Integrated Income Tax IS ITAX\d Customs Management IS \(ASYCUDA Most of the staff have undergone IT literacy courses and have computers that are also connected to the corporate network and the Intern    MSD \(B is an autonomous body under the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare with the objective to develop, maintain and manage an efficient and cost-effective system of procurement, storage and distribution of approved essential drugs and other medical supplies required for use across the country. It has a country-wide distribution network with 9 zones and serves a customer base of about 4,000 health facilities in different programmes. Also it serves district, regional, specialized and referral hospitals Through its corporate strategic plan and an expanding infrastructure, MSD services have raised from about US$14m in 1998 to US$100m in the 2006/07 financial year. It is managed by over 350 employees, 9 of them being IT staff.  Computerization has been undertaken mainly with ORION system that manages procurement, storage and distribution of medical supplies and recently the Integrated Logistics System ILS\ that manages varied health supplies using a single set of procedures. Also many staff have attended IT literacy courses and most have PCs that are also connected to the corporate network  PMO-RALG \(C is the Ministry with a mandate to coordinate regional and local government affairs Through its strategic plans and the Local Government Reform Programme \(LGRP\, the Ministry has been improving its coordinating functions where 21 Regional Secretariats \(RSs\have been enabled and 133 Local Government Authorities \(LGAs\mpowered to provide public services in their localities. Currently the Ministry is supported by 250 staff, six of whom are IT staff. Additionally, there is one IT staff at each of the 21 RSs who also provides assistance to the LGAs in the area. Computerization has been undertaken and the main systems in place include the Integrated Financial Management Information System \(IFMIS Planning and Reporting \(PlanRep\, Local Government Monitoring Database \(LGMD\d LGAs ByLaws Database. A number of staff have computers but there is still a notable demand which gets greater down the ministry hierarchy, RSs and LGAs. A number of staff especially in the Ministry itself, have undergone IT literacy courses and most of them have PCs connected to the corporate network. However, there are relatively IT access difficulties at RSs and LGAs lev  PO-PSM \(D is a Ministry under the President's Office in charge of public service management, to ensure that Public Service is effectively and efficiently managed through improved human resources management, systems and structures. Through various strategic plans, the Ministry has put in place a Human Capital Management Information Systems \(HCMIS that manages all government employees, currently about 400,000. The Ministry also facilitates the Public Service Reform Programme \(PSRP\ that has empowered Ministries, Departments and Agencies MDAs\ various aspects of public service delivery improvement, including putting in place several ICT facilities, applications, Strategic Plans \(ISSP\d capacity building. Currently, the Ministry has a budget of about US$ 35.7m, with 2.85m for IT \(8%\d supported by 300 staff, 15 of whom are IT staff MoFEA \(E is the ministry responsible for managing government revenue, expenditure and financing and provides advice on the broad financial and economic affairs in support of the government s economic and social objectives. Through its strategic plans and the Public Financial Management Reform Programme \(PFMRP\mong other achievements, it has introduced several IS to facilitate its role. These include the IFMIS that manages the budget and expenditure and is rolled-out countrywide. Together with PO-PSM, the said Ministry has established the HCMIS that runs the payroll for government employees. Currently, the Ministry is supported by 1,200 staff, 100 of whom are IT staff    3. Research Methodology In order to describe, understand and explain the IT Governance practices in the public sector and uncover problems and consequences in this environment, a qualitative research methodology a s u s ed. T h is was mainly done through a case study research methodology u ch appr oach  w a s n ecess a r y to be able to carry out a holistic an d in-depth investigation of the problem, and get the required details from the viewpoint of the participants, using multiple sources of data [2 l s o a m u lti cas e approach w a s n eces s a r y  due to the existence of several similarly patterned organizations in the public sector and a need to strengthen the results by replicating the patternmatching, thus increasing confidence in the robustness of the outputs \(17\onsequently, five cases were Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


Fi g ure 1 Nine top most IT Governance context/drivers in the studied or ganizations from the public sector Fi g ure 2 The necessary elements of an IT Governance framework [9 selected to meet these needs as were described earlier The collection of the data was carried out by conducting face to face in-depth interviews and through structured questionnaires. This process was undertaken between December 2007 and June 2008 with both IT and business representatives from five organizations from the public sector in Tanzania. In these organizations IT representatives included IT directors and managers, while business representatives included core and support services directors and managers as well as Chief Executives Officers \(CEOs and board members where applicable. Based on the IT Governance framework [9  k e y f o cu s a r e a s  1 0   k e y  decisions d IT Gov e rn an ce A s s e s s m e n t P r oces s Model [18 f i v e i n terv i e w qu e s tio n n aire s  w e re  developed; two for IT peoples \(CIO and the rest\nd three for business peoples \(directors/managers, CEOs and Board members \(BM\he distribution of the respondents is shown in Table 1 Also in each organization as part of our study, other data were collected including organizations brochures strategic and action plans, policies, reports presentations, and so forth. These data were mainly obtained from the Chief Information Officer \(CIO known as Director of IT, IS, MIS or IT services Table 1 Distribution of the respondents Respondents\\Organiz ations A B C D E Total IT Management 8 5 5 6 7 31 Business Management including  C EO & BM  6 6 6 5 6 29 Total 14 11 11 11 13 60  The data captured through questionnaires were analyzed using the software applications i.e. SPSS and Microsoft Excel. Furthermore, triangulation was done to incorporate data gathered through interviews and documents in this analysis, which was again validated in the studied organizations. This has led to the output of this research work i.e. IT Governance practices problems and consequences in the studied organizations from the public sector in Tanzania  4. The state of IT Governance practices In this section the study findings are presented briefly First, the context of the IT Governance related practices are highlighted \(Fig. 1\econdly, IT Governance mechanisms are covered \(Fig. 2\d finally, a summary & discussion on the IT Governance practices is presented The context of IT Governance in the sector is as indicated in Fig.1, with quality of service and customer satisfaction, strategic alignment/partnership between IT and business, and organizational performance on top certainly due to the nature of the sector. Other contexts are inherent in the ministries or agencies specific roles such as the case of TRA with its vision to be a modernized tax administration; where well-governed IT seemed to be a key integrator for the efficient realization of higher revenue collection and PMORALG where IT is necessary for a good governance and efficient coordination and information management between LGAs, RSs and MDAs Moreover the IT Governance can be implemented using a combination of elements \(Fig. 3\d the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


Fi g ure 3 TRA IS Steering Committee \(ISSC practice found in the sector is described in terms of structures, processes and relational mechanisms  4.1.   IT Governance Structures One of the main determinants for effective IT Governance is how the IT function is organized in an organization. Furthermore structures involve the organization and location of the IT function that clearly defines the roles and responsibilities of a diversity of IT/business committees th e su rv e y  w e h a v e  done in the public sector in Tanzania, the organizations were found to be practising a number of them as are shown in each individual case  4.1.1. TRA  The decision-making structure is organized around four core departments headed by Commissioners and seven support departments including IT, all headed by Directors At the top level it is managed by the Commissioner General \(CG\under the supervision and control of Board of Directors. The IT department is at the same level as other departments, headed by the Director of ICT and reports to the CG. The head is also part of the executive management and attends the Board While there is no IT strategy committee, the IT function is supported by the IT steering committee called the Information Systems Steering Committee ISSC\meets quarterly and members are both from IT and Business departments \(Fig. 3\erally, it oversees the IS investment and specifically it provides strategic leadership for IS operations in the Authority Also the authority has several committees at project level to oversee the project activities. These also include IT and business people that increase the partnership and acceptability T h e com m i ttees at  this level are chaired by the Commissioner or Director of the business department concerned. At the lower levels there are implementations and technical teams all comprising IT and business people. An example of the project committees is the Drivers Licences System DLS\mmittee that oversees the processing and issuing of drivers licences in the country The IT structure indicated to be in place, among others, has increased greatly the strategic alignment between IT and business a s als o redu ced s o m e  duplication of the efforts and resources, and increased the awareness and ownership of IT enabled projects by taking onboard the business people which further increased the partnership and IT contribution to the organizational goals  4.1.2. MSD  The decision making structure is organized in function of three core and two support directorates including IT, all headed by Directors. At top level it is managed by Director General \(DG\ under supervision and control of a Board of Trustees. As indicated here, the IT Directorate is at the same level as other directorates. It is headed by Director of IS and reports to DG. Also the head is part of the executive management and attends the Board While there is neither IT strategy nor IT steering committees, IT functions are supported by several other committees. An example is the Information Security Committee that oversees security related policies and procedures, chaired by the Chief Internal Auditor with members from IT and Business departments. Others are project-based committees. For example at the moment there are Bar-Code and Integrated Logistic System \(ILS\rojects committees Both of them oversee the relevant projects conceptualization and implementations, and are chaired by the directorates of the processes concerned and have proved useful  4.1.3. PMO-RALG  The decision-making structure of the Ministry is organized around eight divisions including IT division, headed by a Director. At the top level the Ministry is led by the Minister and managed by the Permanent Secretary \(PS\s indicated here, IT division is at the same level as other divisions. It is headed by the Director of MIS, who reports to the PS and who is also part of the executive management While there is no IT steering committee at the Ministry level, recently they have proposed the high level ICT Steering committee to cut across the ministries that are heavily interacting with the LGAs through IT applications indicated earlier, thus likely to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


Fi g ure 4 Governance of ICT based Projects an exam ple of HCMIS Pro j ect Committee, PO-PSM minimize duplication of efforts while optimizing IT resources. Again IT function is supported by other committees like IT specialists Working Group \(ITWG that comprises of IT specialists from all 21 regional secretariats \(RSs\ the country, and IT and business people from the ministry. It is mandated to develop standards and oversee their implementation in their respective areas. Observation shows that with these setups in place, governance is getting better and certainly duplication of efforts will slowly decrease especially if higher levels and business people in the ministry, RSs and LGAs continuously get feedback and kept engaged in the process   4.1.4. PO-PSM  The decision-making structure of the Ministry is organized around seven divisions including MIS Division, all headed by Directors. At the top level the Ministry is led by the Minister and managed by the Principal Secretary. As hinted earlier, IT division is at the same level as other divisions in the organization and is headed by the Director of MIS that reports to the PS and is part of the executive management There is no IT steering committee; however, the decisions related to ICT are mostly handled in the executive and operational management meetings Normally, at major projects level, there are project committees, e.g. the case of HCMIS that has a committee chaired by the business department concerned, with IT and business people, and in this case going beyond a single ministry given its utility HR \(PO-PSM\d Payroll \(MoFEA\ues \(Fig. 4   4.1.5. MoFEA  The decision-making structure is organized around ten divisions including IT services division; some are headed by commissioners and others by directors. At top level, the Ministry is led by the Minister and managed by the PS. As indicated here IT division is at the same level as other divisions in the ministry. It is headed by the Director of IT Services reports to PS and is part of the executive management Currently, there is no IT steering committee however, interestingly they have a Website Board that oversees content matters and have both chairman and secretariat from the business and memberships from IT and business. In this way this board seems to contribute to its state of the art including updated conten  4.2. IT Governance Processes Processes refer to the strategic IT decision-making and monitoring d th e practic es are in dicated belo w    4.2.1. TRA  The authority has several processes in use including elements of ITIL, a framework for IT service management [20  A t t h e  m o me nt t h i s i s u s e d fo r  problems and incidents management to ensure best practices that serve better the IT users. Also, the authority has a project life cycle that uses PRINCE2, a worldwide known project management methodology  T h is in co m b in atio n  w i th th e earlier m e ntion e d  projects committees ensure success in the whole project life cycle from the request for pre-study, idea processing and validation, prioritizing up to development or acquisition and maintenance. If there is a problem at any stage of the project, it is likely to be captured earlier and mitigation prompted. It also provides consistency across the organization, thus reducing the learning curve Recently, the authority has also introduced the balanced scorecard [2 t corporate lev el an d cascaded it down to departments including IT. This has increased the alignment between IT and business including improvement in the reporting mechanisms and track of the IT achievements back to business goals o n t i n u e d i m prov e m e n t a n d e n f o rce m ent  will further increase compliance to ISO 9000 \(quality management systems\ being deployed and performance of IT in relation to business goals  4.2.2. MSD  The department does not follow any internationally recognized best practices and does not have IT strategic plan; rather IT plans are embedded within the corporate strategic plan. Also there are practices such as the use of a performance-based yearly business plan that indicates objectives to meet each year, activities to achieve them and KPIs for monitoring and evaluation Also elements of ROI are applied in appraisal of IT investment whether it is a new project or an upgrade of  Chairman Director Establish ment, POPSM Director IT Services MoFEA Director HR Developm ent, POPSM Director Managem ent Services PO-PSM Secretariat Director MIS POPSM Director Pension MoFEA Director Governme nt Budget MoFEA Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


the system. In additional SLA are used, mostly embedded in the contract, for acquiring and managing services by third parties. However, there are no such SLAs practices between IT and user departments  4.2.3. PMO-RALG  The Ministry does not practice any international recognized standard or framework and does not have IT strategic plan; rather IT plans are embedded within the ministry strategic plan. However they have developed a comprehensive IT Operational Plan for short- and medium-term periods based on previous MIS strategies and current ministry Strategic Plan. This Operational plan has Key Result Areas KRAs\ that are also linked to the targets of the ministry Strategic Plan. Some important aspects to note is that one of the KRAs is specifically on Information System Governance and these KRAs indicate clearly the activities and Key Performance Indicators \(KPIs  4.2.4. PO-PSM  It does not follow internationally known approaches and does not have IT strategic plan rather IT plans are embedded in the overall ministry Strategic Plan. This strategic plan includes general KPIs also for IT. Apart from that, the Directorate has created Client charter as SLA with user departments Though recently introduced, it allows measuring and improving its performance on a short-term basis Moreover, best practices like SWOT analysis are used in preparing IT plans as part of the ministry strategic plan. These altogether make the process of decision-making and monitoring more consistent not only to the Ministry but also to the facilitated MDAs  4.2.5. MoFEA  The Ministry does not follow any internationally recognized approach and doesn t have an IT strategic plan. However, it has an IT plan embedded in the overall strategic plan with activities deployed and monitored accordingly. This is also tracked from the expenditure point of view, where Medium Term Expenditure Framework \(MTEF standardized across the government is used. This allows tracking to be done both from a strategic plan and expenditure point of view, and the link established  4.3. IT Governance Relational Mechanisms Relational mechanisms are a catalyst for attaining and sustaining business-IT alignment, even when structures and processes are in place [4 h es e m e c h an i s m s are  important in the studied environment given the size of the organizations and nature of interaction required for a successful ICT integration in the corporate strategies and operations. Its practices are indicated below  4.3.1. TRA  Both IT and business people seemed to be equally aware of practices related to shared understanding of business/IT goals, shared learning and dialogue, informal meeting between business and IT management and cross-functional business/IT training. For example, several training opportunities exist for IT people in business issues, like tax administration and business people on IT. Meetings from strategic to operational levels are yet another opportunity bridging the training gap, e.g. using annual managers meetings to introduce new IT developments  4.3.2. MSD  In this department, practices include understanding of business and IT goals; for example no IT plans are formulated and/or implemented without consultation with the management and project-based committees. This ensures subsequent accountability in implementation and use in respective departments Others are informal meetings between Business and IT management for example to discuss business logic related issues during planning and implementation Furthermore, cross-functional business/IT training is also practiced in several themes such as customer care and effective use of infrastructure and applications  4.3.3. PMO-RALG  Practices include shared understanding of business and IT goals, where major IT initiatives are presented and discussed in the management meetings that comprise Business and IT people. This also applies to plans and implementation done through benchmarked ministry strategic plans and IT operational plan. Others are shared learning and dialogue for example through workshops; informal meeting between Business and IT people for example during project initiation and implementation; and cross-functional business/IT training for example on leadership and supported information systems. These together with other mechanisms ensure alignment and accountability in IT enabled projects [2 resu lti n g to  higher IT contribution to achieve ministry goals  4.3.4. PO-PSM The survey found out that there was consistency of practices related to shared understanding of business and IT goals, learning and dialogue, informal meeting and cross-functional business and IT training. For example, several joint awareness and training sessions have been held on egovernment and public service reforms. Also meetings span from executive and operational management types to the project-based and ad-hoc ones. These practices have assisted the Ministry to integrate IT to the current stage, which apparently has impact in the constantly improving public service delivery  4.3.5. MoFEA  The majority were aware of the shared understanding of business and IT goals, informal meeting between Business and IT and cross-functional Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


business and IT training. The first two are for example practiced through management and project meetings and strategic planning and budgeting processes. The last one is practiced in terms of joint awareness/training related to deployed IT and area of application. A good example is the case of IFMIS among IT and accountants where general knowledge in accounts and IT are provided, followed by the actual use or management of the system. Although the Ministry has a long way to go for effective IT Governance, the mechanisms in place have assisted the Ministry in ensuring that IT contributes to the organizational goals  4.4. A Summary on IT Governance Practices The practice on IT Governance mechanisms across the public sector in the studied organizations spanning from structure, processes to relational mechanisms pointed out earlier in each individual case, are summarized \(Table 2\d discussed in the perspective of the commonality or differences Table 2 Summary of IT governance structures, processes and relational mechanisms in the studied organizations  Practice Type Practices across studied organizations i\tructures Organizational  structure of IT function All are headed by directors, report directly to CEO and are part of the executive management and directors attend the board where it applies How is IT instituted in the organization They are mostly centralized and in some cases with staff distributed to work directly in a user department or branch Committees There are no IT steering Committees with exception of one of them At the level of the major projects generally there are committees established to oversee implementation Also in some organizations there are several other committees to handle cutting-across issues like security change controls and website content ii\cesses Strategic IS Planning Not directly applied  However, generally there are elements of its application in preparing corporate/IT strategic plans   SWOT Analysis Mostly applied across studied organizations in different magnitudes lower in corporate strategic plans that include IT and highly in the IT strategic plan currently in one organization Balanced scorecard Generally not applied. However one of the organizations started to practice it from the corporate strategic plan down to departments and individuals ROI calculation and measurements Not applied per se. However, major IT investment needs non-financial and some financial benefits justifications like the case of HCMIS project cited earlier COBIT or related IT Governance frameworks Not applied. However, one organization has started implementing some aspects of ITIL and indirectly some areas of COBIT Service Level Agreements SLAs Hardly applied internally. However, it is mostly applied for external service providers as part of the contracts Activity Based Costing Budgeting ABC Applied in most of them based on Medium-Term Expenditure Framework MTEF\ government wide tool for planning activities, resources, and associated performance iii\lational Mechanisms Shared understanding of business/IT goals It is widely practiced mostly through normal management mechanisms like management meetings and special IT project/programmes-based committees Shared learning and dialogue Somehow practiced through meetings workshops and training on issues pertaining to business and IT in relation with IS development and use Informal meetings between business and IT management It is widely practiced at different levels for example in clarifying some IT/Business issues especially when a new IT enabled project is being initiated or implemented Crossfunctional business/IT training It is widely practiced through workshop and training on matters of interest among IT and business people Performance Partnership rewards and incentives It is not systematically practiced However, occasionally some people are rewarded due to outstanding performance on innovative solutions Crossfunctional business/IT job rotation co-location Not widely practiced. However, in one of the cases, co-location across the units and zones/branches has been applied Virtual meeting" for business and IT people e.g Intranet use Not practiced. Although there is already Intranet in many of these organizations it has not been widely used due to cultural and enforcement issues Knowledge management Not widely practiced in terms of having the knowledge base of general or specific areas Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


The analysis of these mechanisms indicates that there are some strengths and weaknesses as far as the practices for each category, are concerned.  Generally the studied organizations indicate to have strength in supportive IT organization structure with exception of not having IT strategy and steering committees in most of them. The major weaknesses seem to be on the processes where best practices and standards like Strategic Information Systems Planning, IT Management/Governance & performance management frameworks are rarely applied and this could be detrimental to the consistency and enforcement in deployment, use and management of IT. Also while there is some strength in relational mechanisms practices like shared understanding of business/IT goals and Informal meetings between business and IT management across the studied environment, there are also weaknesses in many of these mechanisms including knowledge management, virtual meeting points and performance/partnership rewards and incentives. It is also worth to note that improvement on these practices is continuously being done, however not as a specific IT Governance project but rather as normal progress in governance of IT to further increase IT contribution to achieve corporate goals Looking at these results in the international context we see that they are in contrast with related studies in the developed world, like is the case of six organizations in Belgium [9   w h i c h i n d i c a t e d t h a t  most of them had specific IT Governance projects and applied best practices and standards  like COBIT, ITIL PRINCE2 and Balance Scorecard Taking into account the fact that one of the key determinants of the effective IT Governance in the organization, apart from constitution of IT structure, is where the IT decision-making authority is located in the organization l s o  tak i n g i n to accou n t th e  practices in place in relation to IT Governance key decisions in terms of who provides input on one hand and decides on the other, the findings across the studied organizations indicate that generally both are distributed across the organization as indicated in Fig 5. Specifically, however, the notable pattern indicates that IT provides most of the inputs throughout the decisions except on the Business application needs where inputs are equally coming from business related groups. The decisions indicate a different trend as are mostly made by executive management comprising IT and Business people, which if done well is likely to increase alignment of IT and business and smooth implementation of IT applications and its us Looking at related studies elsewhere and taking the case of MIT-CISR work and specifically on the public  iou s th a t t h ere are si m i larities i n t h e  pattern especially on decisions where federal dominates in both cases. However, differences appear in decisions related to IT architecture and infrastructure, done by IT Monarchy while in our case it is done by the same Federal. Notably, when it comes to the input, the difference seems to be substantial due to the fact that while IT monarchy dominates most of the inputs in the compared studies, our related study environment indicates to be dominated by Federal Looking at the differences in both cases we can see that the mature IT Governance practices especially on structures might be one of the determinants of the differences and required governance effectiveness    5. Discussion: Problems and consequences Use of ICT in the studied environment is still a relatively new culture and this has contributed to the problems encount  T h es e proble m s are  discussed here based on the representative case studies seen earlier. Also this section indicates the consequences in order that the implications for not taking necessary actions are known, so that this could be taken as motivation for change or further research  5.1. Problems As it was earlier indicated, one vital way of looking at IT Governance related problems in an organization is its key focus areas o applied by oth e r earlier  studies T h es e areas i.e. s t rateg ic al ignm ent, v a l u e  delivery, risk management, resource management and Fi g ure 5 The IT Governance key decisions patterns in the studied organizations  1 5 No. Of  Cases Occurence Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


performance management, are also applied here to look into the problems as were embedded in the questionnaires used in the survey. These problems are ranked according to the interviewees perspective on their seriousness in the sector \(Table 3\d respective discussion is done as per IT Governance focus areas Also the highlight is provided taking into account the summary and discussion on the current practices unveiled in the earlier section  5.1.1. Strategic Alignment This focuses on ensuring the linkage of business and IT plans; defining maintaining and validating the IT value proposition and aligning IT operations with enterprise operations  ook i n g acros s t h e s t u d i e d org an i z a t i ons i t i s  clear that there is no specific IT strategic plan in most of them that could tie the business and IT activities more holistically and effectively. This, among others leads to the biggest problem, i.e. lack of ownership by business people in IT-enabled projects \(Table 3\d in some cases organizations being forced to allocate IT personnel to do what business people should be doing rather than supporting them The aspect of inadequate or absent ICT policies and procedures is another problem that is also consistent across most of them. It hampers consistency in ICT usage and management, which is yet another serious problem. Lack of IT Governance awareness and certainly some guidelines are also seen as problem This is also linked with HR related problems on lack of clear roles, responsibilities and accountability that sometimes, among others, leads to the ad-hoc practices. While it appears that there are mechanisms to communicate ICT plans and goals e.g. through meetings and workshops, inadequate enforcement mechanisms still hamper the widespread use of ICT and promised benefits. An example is Intranet which seems to be in place in many organizations and can increase IT/Business partnershi d in tern a l  efficiency but it is still not being used widely enough  5.1.2. Value delivery  is one of the IT Governance outcomes and is about value proposition throughout the delivery cycle, ensuring that IT delivers the promised benefits against the strategy or plans t h i s  regard it was found out that despite the high cost of IT there is still lower return or business value. This happens due to the mentioned earlier non-optimal use missing synergies, and inadequate facilitation and enforcement for a widespread use. One of the interviewees claimed that some offices were still using computers merely as fast typewriters  5.1.3. Risk Management Risk management requires awareness by senior and operational officers and embedding of risk management responsibilities in the Table 3 Ranked problems seriousness as per survey in the studied organizations Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


organization [10  T h e sur v e y i n d i c a t e s t h a t ge ne r a l l y there is still a weak risk-based approach in designing and operating IT related services which is also consistent with earlier studies on IT security matters in the environmen w e v e r, f o r th e v e r y critical an d  country wide systems like Integrated Financial MIS IFMIS\at manages all government expenditures risk management is relatively higher and sometimes exaggerated. The latter is due to the fact that it has a separate physical network within the ministry concerned and across some government offices   5.1.4. Resource Management which ensures optimal investment and the proper management of critical IT resources  y et a n oth e r problem atic area i n t h e  sector. The issue of attracting and sustaining skilled and competent IT personnel is still a nightmare to solve, despite some efforts continually made Availability of essential budget for the required IT resources is yet another problem especially for low level staff, in regions and branches. Together with these is the case of fragmented IT initiatives with duplication of efforts and a loss of synergies and exploitation of the economies of scale. For example one could find heavy duty printers or photocopiers with capacity to serve many employees or offices only serving a single person or office, thus mostly staying idle. Moreover, there are still some fragmented business applications in the studied organizations  5.1.5. Performance Management that is important for tracking and monitoring strategy and plans implementation and benefits accrued and measured beyond the conventional accounting y et an ot h e r  problematic area. Although there is progress in this direction like the recently use of the balanced scorecard in one of the organizations or metrics embedded in the ministerial strategic plans, the environment generally poses some weaknesses. This again came out strongly in the survey \(Table 3 Others include inadequate follow-up and enforcement on the matters discussed in the IT related committees and meetings. This also indicates that putting IT structures in place is not enough; one should go beyond to implement necessary processes and relational mechanisms to ensure the returns on investme  As indicated earlier, Table 3 presents the ranked problems in the public sector. These results are also comparable to other related studies like those produced by the IT Governance Institut 2 5] an d th e MI T CISR study on 256 organizations worldw ile  there are differences among them like lack of ownership of IT projects, relatively lower acceptance of new IT applications, fragmented IT initiatives and inadequate enforcement mechanisms that hamper the optimal use of the IT resources, there are also similarities. These include staff matters but in this case going further to the staff shortage and inadequate IT skills and competency. Others are weak measurement of IT performance and value to the business, high cost of IT but low ROI and security issues  5.2. Consequences Several studies have indicated possible consequences for not having effective IT Governance in place, in the cases related to public sector in a developing country  22  Bas e d on th es e cas es an d a preli m i n a r y  survey in the public sector, possible consequences were investigated and bundled together as shown in Fig. 6. According to the study results there are serious consequences in the sector that can be detrimental to the effort towards effective IT Governance, and hence improvement in the public service delivery. The most serious problem noted is the difficulty involved in holding individuals accountable for their results Others are ad-hoc solutions due to user and management frustrations, which are obviously outcomes of not having a good IT governance in place where people finds their own solutions, and sometimes take this loophole to misuse the IT resources      Fi g ure 6 Ranked consequences as a result of the survey in the studied organizations  85 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Additionally, there are traditional consequences like IT investment losses, and given the magnitude of systems put in place in these kinds of organizations, they encounter the loss of a lot of money and effort when a project fails to deliver its promises Similarly, there are reputation damages which are also a nasty consequence to such large organizations for example, at a revenue authority if the system that deals with customs clearance or tax payments have some problems and there is no adequate governance that ensures the timely recovery or alternative solution this will be in the news the following day. Knowing the problems and associated consequences will assist the IT decision makers in prioritizing activities and solutions for effective IT governance and consequently the improvement in the public service delivery  6. Conclusions In this paper, based on the analysis of five public organizations, we have described IT Governance current practices, problems encountered and the consequences in the public sector in a developing country. The IT Governance mechanisms, together with key focus and decision areas provided the means for a thorough investigation into the studied environment. The combination of these approaches was found to be useful in uncovering practices of interest in this environment, where on one hand IT resources are scarce and its development and management are relatively less established and on the other hand the use of ICT in providing public services is gaining momentum and several efforts are being made to carry it out successfully. The analysis of IT Governance practices in the studied organizations indicate diverse practices in relation to structures processes and relational mechanisms with notable weakness in the processes where, in contrast with developed world, best practices are rarely applied in most of them It was also noted that improvement on these practices are being done continually, not as a specific IT Governance project but rather as normal improvement to increase the IT contribution to the organizational goals. The analysis revealed a number of problems and their consequences in the organizations. The problems we found are categorized in the IT Governance key focus areas, and are including the lack of a specific IT strategic plan in most of them; lack of business people ownership in ITenabled projects; inadequate or absent ICT policies and procedures; lack of IT Governance awareness and guidelines; inadequate follow-up and enforcement mechanisms; and lack of clear roles, responsibilities and accountability. Others problems found are a weak risk-based approach in designing and operating IT related services; attracting and sustaining skilled and competent IT personnel; inadequate budget for required IT resources; fragmented IT initiatives with a loss of synergies and exploitation of the economies of scale; high cost of IT with lower business value; and weak measures of IT performance and value to business In addition, to the problems and challenges in the public sector, several consequences that can be detrimental to the efforts towards effective IT Governance and hence improvements in the public service delivery were also revealed. The most common ones include the difficulty of holding individuals accountable for their results; ad-hoc solutions due to user and management frustrations; and traditional consequences like IT investment losses and damage to the reputation of the organization in question  References  T GI En terpris e Value: Gov e rn a n ce of IT Investments, The Val IT Framework, 2006. Retrieved from  www.itgi.org   P e terson R. R., In teg r ation Strateg ie s an d T a ctics for IT Governance, In W. Van Grembergen \(Ed Strategies for Information Technology Governance Hershey, PA: Idea Group Publishing, 2003   arav adi C  S  D i g i tal repos itories  f o r egovernment, E-Government, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2005 pp.205-218   Gre m berg e n W., De Haes S Gulden tops   E. Structures, processes and relational mechanisms for IT governance. In Van Grembergen W. \(Ed Strategies for Information Technology Governance Hershey, PA: Idea Group Publishing, 2003   e ill, P    Ross, J  W  IT Gov e rn an ce Ho w T op Performers Manage IT Decision Rights for Superior Results, Harvard Business School Press, 2004   T a n zan ia Nation al IC T  P o licy  A v ai lable at  www.tanzania.go.tz/pdf/ictpolicy.pdf, 2003. Last accessed, June 2008   dou V  eG o v e rnm ent for D e v e l opi n g  C oun t r i e s  Opportunities and Challenges. The Electronic Journal on IS in Developing Countries \(EJISDC\, 2004  8  B a ka r i  J  B  A ho l i s t i c  A p p r o a c h fo r M a na gi ng I C T  Security in Non-Commercial Organizations: A case in a developing country, Doctoral Thesis, Stockholm University, Stockholm, 2007  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 


 Grem berg e n W  De Haes S. I m ple m e n ti ng Information Technology Governance: Models Practices and Cases. IGI Publishing, 2008   T G I. Boa rd b r ief i ng on  IT g o v e rn an ce \(2 nd ed 2003.  Retrieved from www.itgi.org on May 2008   T R A  A bout T a n zan ia Rev e nu e Au t h orit y  T R A   and related statistics in the case study, www.tra.go.tz 2008. Last accessed May 2008   MS D. A bou t Medical S t ores Departm e n t MS D   and related statistics in the case study, www.msd.or.tz 2008. Last accessed, May 2008   PMOR AL G A bou t Prim e Minis t er s Office Regional Authority and Local Government \(PMORALG\d related statistics in the case study www.pmoralg.go.tz, 2008, Last accessed May 2008   O P SM. A bou t P r eside n t O f f i ce, P u blic Services  Management \(PO-PSM\d related statistics in the case study, www.utumishi.go.tz, 2008. Accessed 2008   o F E A 2008 A bou t  Mi n i s t r y of Fi n a n c e an d  Economic Affairs \(MoFEA\d related statistics in the case study, www.mof.go.tz. Last accessed May 2008   ers, Mich ae l D. "Qu alitat iv e Researc h i n  Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 2 1997, pp. 241-242    R   C a s e  S t u d y res e arch des i g n an d m e t h ods   third edition. Sage Publications, 2003   Peters on R  R  C r afting I T Gov e rn an ce f o r toda y s turbulent environment, Information Systems Management, Vol. 21 No.4, 2004, pp.7-21  19 N f uka E  N   R u s u  L  M a na ge me n t o f I T enabled change in a public organization in Tanzania Int. J. Information Systems and Change Management Vol.2, No.4, 2007, pp. 334-349, Inderscience Publishers  20 O G C B e s t M a n a g e m e n t P r a c t i c e i n I T S e r v i c e  Management \(ITIL\ and Project Management PRINCE2\008, retrieved from www.bestmanagement-practice.com on August, 2008   R Norton D T h e balan ced s c orecard Measures that drive performance. Harvard Business Review, 1992, 70\(1\71-79   a y a y a S  G  A  s t u d y  of t h e poten tia l u s a g e o f  ICT \(E-government\ in improving efficiency and effectiveness of executive functions of the government including delivery of Public Services Case of Tanzania. A dissertation for degree of MEM at UDSM, 2003   u pan g k a t, S  H R a hm a t B S e m b iring J. IT  Governance for Developing Countries. School of Electrical Engineering and Informatics, Institute of Technology Bandung. Engage Indonesia, 2006   T GI PWC  IT Gov e rn an ce Gl obal St at us Report, 2006. Retrieved from www.itgi.org   T G I  PWC  I T Go v e rn a n ce Global S t at us Report, 2008. Retrieved from www.itgi.org   i bbers P.M.A P e ters o n  R  R P a rk er, M.M Designing IT governance processes: Diagnosing contemporary practices and competing theories Proceedings of the 35 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS   e, R  19 95  T h e art of cas e res e arch  Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 12 


The characterization of motion imagery video traffic involved the stochastic characterization of I P B-frames of MPEG-4 sequences Several Matlab tools were developed to support video analyses wherein ISS and Shuttle specific mission video sequences were used to derive parameters for the associated model A general stochastic model was derived for data telemetry enabling broad parametric applicability ranging among constant bit stream periodic or bursty patterns This same general model through proper selection of parameters may also be used to model command data flow traffic Matlab programs were developed to enable each of the traffic types above to be synthesized and saved into a file for use by SCaN simulation for performance analyses Example flows were generated for a LEO case and an Ascent case and results illustrated using the SCaN Simulator These analyses show the need for such traffic models to determine packet loss including speech intelligibility and latency arising from both statistical multiplexing and potential use of DiffServ prioritization techniques when peak offered loads may undergo transient overload conditions 7 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration REFERENCES 1 Esther Jennings and David Heckman Architecture Modeling and Performance Characterization of Space Communications and Navigation SCaN Network using MACHETE submitted to 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings March 1-8 2008 2 Michael Hammer and James Champy Reengineering the Corporation New York Harper Business 1993 3 G Edward Bryan Not All Programmers Are Created Equal 1994 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings February 5-12 1994 4 Voice Activity Detection Using Generalized Gamma Distribution in Advances in Artificial Intelligence part of the series Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 3955 2006 5 Athina Markopoulou Fouad Tobagi and Mansour Karam Assessment of VoIP quality over Internet backbones In Proceedings of INFOCOM 2002 6 John Daigle and Joseph Langford Models for Analysis of Packet Voice Communications Systems IEEE JSAC SAC-4 6 1986 7 Harold Stem and Kim-Kwok Wong Modeling the on-off patterns in conversational speech including short silence gaps and the effects of interaction between speaking parties Vehicular Technology Conference 1994 8 0 Rose Statistical Properties of MPEG video traffic and their impact on traffic modeling in ATM systems Institute of Computer Science Report 101 University of Wurzburg 1995 BIOGRAPHY Tudor Stoenescu received a BS in Electrical Engineering  and an MS in Mathematics from North Dakota State University in 1999 and a MSE and PhD in  Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from University of Michigan in 2001 and 2004 respectively After receiving his PhD Dr Stoenescu accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position in Information Science and Technology at California Institute of Technology In 2006 Dr Stoenescu joined the Telecommunications Architecture Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory Dr Stoenescu's current research interests lie 13 


in the areas of resource allocation in networks mechanism design dynamic scheduling and decision processes stochastic control and optimization Loren Clare is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory He obtained the Ph.D in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983 His research interests include wireless communications protocols self-organizing systems network systems design modeling and analysis and distributed control systems Prior to joining JPL in May 2000 he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks satellite networking and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation 14 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


