html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: prewrap;">Multidimensional Analysis of RFID Data in Logistics   Henning Baars Chair of Information Systems I University of Stuttgart, Germany baars@wi.uni-stuttgart.de Xuanpu Sun Chair of Information Systems I University of Stuttgart, Germany sun@wi.uni-stuttgart.de    Abstract In the domain of logistics, Radio Frequency Identification \(RFID to an enhanced efficiency, accuracy, and preciseness of object identification. Many of the far-reaching solutions proposed in the literature are based on data exchange, integration, and analysis. However, the respective applications have so far not been thoroughly scrutinized regarding relevance and design This paper specifically explores options for modeling and utilizing multidimensional data sets for analytical applications as known from the realm of  Business Intelligence  BI sis scenarios are derived and discussed with respect to characteristic requirements for the purposeful utilization of BI tools. This is the foundation for the design of a multidimensional data model and for the construction of a prototype based on Online Analytical Processing \(OLAP sualizes possible applications and their business potential, its construction also leads to findings regarding the gathering and integration of RFID data   1. Motivation and relevance  At its core, Radio Frequency Identification RFID a contact-free, radio based data capturing either for logistical units \(pallets, boxes etc items [1, 2, 31]. Relevant business potential stems from the possibility of bulk identification, options to store data along with the ID, and the combination of RFID with sensor technology and/or with tracking and tracing systems [10, 11 In the domain of logistics, the possibility to efficiently gather object data with unprecedented accuracy and frequency in real time opens the door for a number of applications that aim beyond mere automation scenarios [25, 28, 36]: By increasing the number of measuring points and measuring events the overall supply chain visibility is increased. This enables better decisions \(?informational benefits and even far-reaching process redesigns \(?transformational benefits  of this type of applications has not only been claimed in various publications [32, 36], but also been shown in first empirical studies among pilot users [20 The accompanying need for an exchange of RFID data across enterprise borders is addressed by the implementation of infrastructures like the EPCglobal network [17, 19]. It has already been illustrated that there is a distinct need for further data integration harmonization, and aggregation in such environments 35]: Many of the discussed monitoring or analysis scenarios require binding together data from a variety 


scenarios require binding together data from a variety of heterogeneous operational systems owned by different organizational units or even different enterprises. Moreover, to identify patterns, data needs to be aggregated in numerous ways The resulting infrastructural consequences for data refinement and analysis have not yet been scrutinized: It remains open what concrete types of systems enable meaningful insights into RFID data what requirements regarding data preparation they bring along, and which data models they can be based on This contribution specifically explores how enriched RFID data can be prepared in an integrated multidimensional fashion for purposes of managerial support. Multidimensional data sets are specifically designed for the analysis of large data volumes and for flexible aggregations along multiple dimensions e.g. product, time, location, etc define the context of the respective indicators, called facts?. The potential of this approach for RFID data is demonstrated by the use of an Online Analytical Processing \(OLAP ysis approach that is based on the navigation in multidimensional data sets. It allows the user to freely select facts, dimensions, and granularity layers in an ad-hoc fashion and to immediately visualize the results [12, 23, 27 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE Requirements for a management oriented analytical support are drawn from two case studies. This leads to the derivation of an integrated, relational multidimensional data model \(star scheme based on that ? the design and the development of an OLAP-based prototype. The prototype serves for illustration purposes and supports a further investigation of the possibilities of a multidimensional analysis of RFID data. The data modeling and prototype building activities also generate insights into the requirements for an underlying data transformation and integration architecture  2. Related work  In recent years, RFID has already drawn much research attention. A notable result from case and pilot studies is that ? despite some challenges ? RFID implementations in the logistics context are indeed feasible and that some of them bring along real world business potential [18, 24, 32 Various publications emphasize the relevance of informational and transformational benefits: Results underpinning this assertion come from simulations case study research, and empirical studies among pilot users [20, 25, 28, 29, 36]. This class of effects gains particular in weight when it comes to largescale RFID implementations that involve multiple sites or even several independent organizations. The rationale behind this becomes clear when put into the context of the general theme of data sharing along the supply chain ? the relevance of which has been shown numerously before [3, 8, 22 The subset of applications that is discussed here is based on refined data, which means that data from various sources is harmonized, aggregated, and enriched according to managerial needs. A potential starting point to tackle the respective tasks is to apply established solutions from the domain of Business Intelligence \(BI tegrated managerial support [4] ? to the RFID and 


tegrated managerial support [4] ? to the RFID and logistics area, namely solutions built upon Data Warehouses A Data Warehouse \(DWH integrated, non-volatile, subject-oriented data collection for decision support [23]. Based on the DWH systems for data preparation and analysis can be installed: Among others, various sorts of reporting solutions, data mining systems for statistical pattern recognition, ad-hoc-query tools, and OLAP applications for multidimensional data analysis [4, 23, 34 DWH-infrastructures are also increasingly used for the support of operational monitoring and near time analysis scenarios. The respective real time and active DHWs are turning into logically centralized data refinement hubs that support all managerial levels and business functions The combination of BI and RFID has already been accessed from a technical angle [21, 30, 35 The focus of the respective research activities especially lies on the consequences of storing RFID data on transactional granularity in data warehouses and approaches for handling the resulting data volume There is still a lack of insight into an applicationoriented preparation of RFID data. This paper concentrates on OLAP systems because they vividly illustrate the potential of keeping a rich multidimensional data collection in the DWH that is designed for flexible uses  3. Methodology  The requirements for the data modeling and the prototype design are derived from two case studies The first one comes from the realm of retail logistics while the other addresses production logistics in the vehicle manufacturing industry. Both case studies applied a variety of qualitative data gathering techniques \(narrative interviews, workshops, observation analysis of documents sights into the benefits of possible combinations of BI and RFID, to derive and evaluate relevant analysis scenarios, and to elicit respective data provision and integration needs. In both studies the involved experts and managers already built up on pilot-study experiences with RFID technology The results of the case studies are analyzed for relevant characteristics with respect to a possible system design. This leads to the formulation of seven requirements which are guiding the design of the data model and the prototype. The fit of the outcomes with the requirements is demonstrated with selected analyses from the supply chain case. The construction of the data model and the prototype also entails some relevant consequences for data refinement  4. Deriving scenarios and requirements  The following two case studies are the foundation of the subsequent requirements definition   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 4.1. Retail chain case  The first case was accomplished within a logistics project of an European retailing group. It addresses coupling EPCglobal infrastructures with systems for management support, as this was seen as highly relevant within the project consortium. The derived sce 


vant within the project consortium. The derived scenarios reflect the actual business demands, envisioned applications, required data, and possible benefits of concrete analyses [5 Among others, the chain in discussion includes Chinese manufacturers, a Goods Distribution Centre GDC handles the goods transfer to the individual retailers Europe. Assumptions being made for the derived scenarios include the implementation of the EPCglobal infrastructure alongside the introduction of a Vendor Managed Inventory? approach \(cf. [14 and a far reaching redistribution of decision rights to the GDC. The GDC is turned into the core decision unit in the chain for distribution related activities. For some of the discussed analyses, a successful introduction of RFID tags on item level and/or the coupled use of RFID tags and sensors are assumed Predicated on these presumptions, data collection points were derived and discussed for each partner in the chain. Furthermore, the availability of additional data sources was elicited and scenarios for RFID data usage including their respective data provision requirements were developed From the perspective of this paper the following analysis scenarios are deemed to be relevant  Maximization of shelf space utilization In this first scenario, the actual amounts of goods in the shelves are taken into consideration within disposition decisions of the GDC for purposes of a maximization of shelf space utilization. The effectiveness of the resulting replenishing policies can be tracked with current data and analyzed with historic data  Relocation of goods between retailers The GDC becomes responsible for balancing out shortages by directing goods transfers among different retailers  Identification of root causes for defective articles This scenario aims at identifying root causes for quality issues. This requires RFID tags on item level, gathering tracking and tracing data, as well as the inclusion of sensor information  Demand driven order process The aim is to leverage a more demand driven order process to realize reduced lot sizes and a higher order frequency ? coordinated by the GDC and based both on real time and historical RFID data  Alternative transport routes The last analysis pertains to route planning. In the given case, RFID, GPS, and sensor data enable the GDC to monitor the status and the location of moving goods and to be able to intervene as soon as possible. The selection of alternative routes can be based on collections of historical data Note that although most of those problems are known from supply chain management literature \(e.g. [15 16 environment due to issues of data availability \(for example sensor data, item based information, detailed in-house localization precision, correctness, timeliness all analyses require to bind together data from at least two involved parties [22, 37 4.2. Vehicle production case  In the second case, internal logistics processes within a vehicle manufacturing setting are focused The scenarios in discussion are addressing the pro 


The scenarios in discussion are addressing the production and transportation of a core vehicle component and the management of loading units. As in the first case, both relevant RFID measurement points and scenarios for the analysis have been derived together with involved experts from the company. It needs to be stressed that the discussed issues are widespread among similar sized manufacturing companies [7, 13]. The study provided concrete insights into the qualitative nature as well as in the relevance and the feasibility of the conceived solutions [26 From the viewpoint of this paper the following analysis scenarios are noteworthy  Rejects over time This analysis binds data from different systems together in order to track and analyze rejects over time for the adjustment of production planning and materials provision  Analysis of throughput times To support the optimization of production rates and logistics planning, throughput times are analyzed for the complete processes as well as for dedicated sub-processes. Among others, the involved machines can form a relevant analysis dimension  Alternative transportation routes Similar to the retail case, the transportation to different \(production tored regarding quality and time ? if critical deviations occur, alternative routes and/or transporProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 tation modes are chosen ? the selection of which can be supported by historical data  Volume of loading units / shrinkage For the optimization of the volume of loading units, reliable information on the actual amount and distribution of available units is required This includes the need to view selections of the total data set with respect to the unit types, locations, and responsible organizational units The analysis also addresses pinpointing root causes for losses in the loading unit supply As in the first case, all analyses draw data from different systems. Many are based on item visibility across the complete process and require an itembased tagging. Bar codes are not considered to be a viable option due to the harsh environmental conditions and object handling costs. In the case of the loading units, the currently available data is completely based on daily manual counts  4.3. Deriving requirements for a Management support system  From the management support perspective, the following aspects are relevant  A cornerstone of RFID technology is its promise of identification on item level that allows for analyses below the level of the logistical unit thereby facilitating chain-spanning applications The necessary data coupling is further fostered by the availability of a global coding standard An EPC-Code can be understood as a natural primary key that is valid across enterprise borders. The integration potential of RFID is the basis for several analyses like the localization of root courses for defects, for the comparison of alternative routes backed by historical data, for pinpointing shrinkage origins, etc  An efficient data capturing also allows for more 


 An efficient data capturing also allows for more frequent and more precise measurements ? and therefore for a higher temporal and spatial resolution during an analysis: The data can be sliced with greater precision. An example is the differentiation between goods in the retail shelves and in the retail warehouse for maximized shelf space utilization  The automatic measurement leads to a higher data quality and thereby a higher decision quality. This makes it possible to cut down security buffers kept for coping with uncertainties ? both in internal and external logistics  Usually analyses are embedded in a mutual feedback cycle with planning ? planned measures are mirrored against current data and plans are adjusted according to actual \(measured events. Examples include the selection and adjustment of routes, or the optimization of throughput times and buffers  The identification can be tied to additional measurements, e.g. temperature curves, or be enriched with additional descriptive attributes, e.g. on involved production facilities or organizational units. Both enable pinpointing issues regarding their qualitative root courses The proposed system in this paper is constructed to reflect those characteristics. It thereby needs to include them in its data model which defines its flexibility and applicability  To gain insights from the integration aspect, identification and measurement events need to be put into their logistical context ? which at best means the association with the complete path from the upstream origin to the downstream destination. In consequence, the events need to be qualified with information on the route and their position in the route. In the logistics domain, the relevant events captured by RFID are obviously for the most part physical movements along an overarching global route or the lack thereof \(stock keeping Requirement 1: The system should allow analyzing transportation events within their respective logistics context  The spatial resolution that can be utilized is determined by the measurement points \(RFID readers with the most granular level being the distance between two adjacent readers. In the discussed logistics context, the set of meaningful pairings of readers is determined by the sections of the global route. The respective events are transfers of items along those track sections Requirement 2: The system should allow drilling down to individual transfer events which are delimitated by a track section on a global route  Although the relevant time resolution can be made almost arbitrary small by increasing measurement frequency, meaningful insights are only delivered when either a transfer has been completed or an unexpected change of the status of a transported item or logistical unit takes place, e.g. when an item is lost or rejected due to a defect Requirement 3: The system should track the current status of an item  For insights into the current distribution of goods and their status, it is necessary to summarize amounts Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


4 of goods with respect to their current position, while for the historical analyses the number of completed or failed transfers are the bases of the calculations Requirement 4: The system should be able to provide insights into current as well as historical data  As discussed above, it is recommendable to always mirror actual events against planned ones. This includes the occurrence of item transfer events as well as the performance measures that go along with those events, like throughput times, costs, etc Requirement 5: For managerial purposes, deviations between actual and planned performance indicators as well as actual and planned events need to be tracked  The last two requirements stem from the necessity to adequately qualify the data in order to draw valid conclusions from it Requirement 6: The system should provide an array of relevant performance indicators that qualify the transfer events Requirement 7: The system needs to integrate a large set of descriptive dimensions and attributes to describe the context of the indicators 5. Data model  The data model is strictly based on a relational multidimensional design \(?star scheme  portrayed in Figure 1. The model is deliberately denormalized for reasons of simplicity and compatibility \(avoiding so-called ?snow-flaking The relation item transfer gathers the facts that need to be analyzed. Each transfer event refers to an individual track section ? thereby fulfilling the first two requirements. The item transfer can on the one hand be conducted using different shipment modes and qualities and on the other hand include item modifications like manufacturing steps, or stock keeping This differentiation is described in the mode of transformation dimension The track section relation also stores the logistical context ? it assigns each section to a sub route and to a global route which also define the aggregation paths. The sub and global routes are only defined by their start and end points and can be used to track an arbitrary number of routing options. By coupling the item number and the track sections items or groups thereof can be followed throughout the complete supply chain, making way for analyses of the sort Figure 1: Structure of the data model Item Key \(FK Box Key \(FK Pallet Key \(FK Container Key \(FK Track Section Key \(FK Mode of Transformation Key \(FK Company Key \(FK Start Date \(FK End Date \(FK Status Duration Costs Further performance indicators Planed_flag Min_Measured Temp Max_Measured Temp Further sensor related attributes Item Transfer Track Section Key \(PK 


Track Section Key \(PK Track Section From Track Section To Distance Globalroute Number Globalroute Description Subroute Number Subroute Description Section Number Section Description Further Attributes Track Section Company Key \(PK Company Description Company Type Address Country Region Continent More Attributes Unit Item Key \(PK Item Name Item Group Category Date of Manufacturing Weight Length Width Height Min_Temp Max_Temp Other sensor related attributes Manufacturer Description Manufacturer Type Further item related attributes Item Date Key \(PK Start Date Dimension Date Key \(PK End Date Dimension Mode of Transportation Key \(PK Description More Attributes Mode of Transformation Pallet Key \(PK Length Width Height Packing Date Unpacking Date Pallet Box Key \(PK Length Width Height Packing Date Unpacking Date Box Container Key \(PK Length Width Height Packing Date Unpacking Date Container Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 How many items reached their destination?? or What number of items went which way on a global route?? The ordinal position on a route is denoted by 


route?? The ordinal position on a route is denoted by a sequence number. This enables meaningful data selections The status demanded in requirement 3 is kept in a dedicated field of the fact table. The status can also capture the current state of an item that has not yet reached its destination. By using the status field to exclude arrivals, an aggregated near time monitoring is enabled \(requirement 4 Providing planned data to confirm with requirement 5 could not be realized in the classic way by simply including budget data in the fact table: Each item transfer is conceived to be an actual event defined by a real item and a real track section at an actual period of time. However, the actual route a item takes can very well deviate from the plan. For this reason, the field planned flag is included: The planned data is kept in separate fact fields that can be mirrored with the actual data by a join over the unique item number Requirements 6 and 7 are saliently depicted in the model. Of particular interest are the box, pallet, and container dimensions which store packaging information: Each individual article is an item that can be assigned to such a logistical unit during an item transfer. Simultaneously, the logistical units themselves are treated as items, although they have different global routes This data model does not include any recursions for packaging and routes in order to impose uniform aggregation paths. This leads to the requirement that such structures from operational systems must be recursively taken apart during data extraction. Figure 2 shows the three level hierarchy that has been designed for the prototype regarding the route  Global Route Section Sub Route Tr ac k S ec tio n H ie ra rc hy   Figure 2. Three level hierarchy  The global route labels the complete actual or planned transfer from the initial origin to the ultimate destination, while the sub route denotes a part of that route. This middle layer is included to be able to group subsequent track sections based on organizational responsibility. The section is the smallest unit the path between two RFID readers. For large scale implementations, the hierarchy might be further divided up. This should especially be necessary when a multitude of small-scale transport events enters the data set Eventually, quite a few attributes on the dimensions are basically potential cost \(or time Their combination should be reflected in the facts 6. Prototype and demonstration scenarios  


 The case studies introduced in chapter 4 were the starting point for the development of a prototype that is essentially built on top of the discussed data model The prototype is implemented in MS SQL Server 2005 \(representing the DWH Cognos 8 \(for the analyses type is generated with a data generator that has been realized in Java. During the data generation process systematical deviations can be injected into the data set \(e.g. a tendency to take alternate, expensive routes, shrinkage, or temperature-induced spoilage All relevant parameters regarding the set up and the deviations can be set in a XML definition file The scenarios that will be presented are based on the retail chain case and are built upon the same assumptions. All analyses work with a single integrated play facturer delivers products to a German retailer \(Figure 3 clude transportation by trains, ships, airplanes \(on an alternative route  Beijing Manufacturer Tianjin Check Point Stuttgart Retail Store Shanghai Port Hamburg Port Frankfurt GDC Karlsruhe Check Point Amsterdam Port   Figure 3. Schematic representation of the transportation routes in the data set Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 The current data pool addresses five different products with 10,000 items and covers a time horizon of one year. All planned and actual transfer events for the defined global route were generated. The resulting data volume already exceeds 40 MB. This indicates the amount of data that needs to be analyzed in a real world setting with several ten thousand product variants. The data volume results mainly from the item based tracking and the level of detail that is generated with the track sections. It primarily resides in the fact table In the following presentation, the problem area of transport route selection has been chosen because it surfaced both in the manufacturing and in the retail case. Furthermore, it exemplifies the potential of putting data into its logistical context, monitor current and historic data, drill into the data, and contrast plan and actual values. The problem thereby contains the core requirements discussed in section 4.3  6.1. Monitoring  The data model enables a near time monitoring of item subsets which have not yet reached their target destination. It is especially possible to watch the number of items which have been rejected \(manually or automatically sorted out because of defects or surpassing critical sensor values identified as missing, e.g. with smart shelves tool allows conducting aggregations for defined sets of items \(e.g. selected by product type and for a given 


global route etc      Figure 4. Monitoring shrinkage  Figure 4 shows the total number of rejected and lost items for the actual and planned sub routes on the global route Beijing  Stuttgart  The OLAP-based navigation on top of the derived data model allows for an immediate drill down and slicing of the data to give an overview on the current situation within one selected retail store. Thereby a clearer picture of ?hot spots? can be gained. Figure 6 shows such an analysis. The sequence of tracksections follows the basic store layout from the case study as shown in Figure 5   Store Floor Backroom Inventory Retail Shelf St or ag e Sh el f St or ag e Sh el f C he ck ou t C ou nt er s G oo ds R ec ep tio n To Store Floor   Figure 5. Schematic representation of the retail store  In the shown scenario the rejections agglomerate in goods reception and stocking. It can now further be analyzed if the situation is confined to a subset of the products, supplier, transportation mode etc     Figure 6. Drilling into the retail store 


Figure 6. Drilling into the retail store data subset  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 Figure 7. Deviations from the route \(historic data Based on the discussed data model, the system also allows for a visualization of current bottlenecks congestions, route deviations, and many other relevant events It needs to be emphasized that this type of scenario requires an efficient, near time data capturing mechanism on a level of detail and preciseness which is far from being available with established identification technologies  6.2. Analysis of historic data  The storage and aggregation of historic data is a facilitator for the identification of patterns e.g. regarding spoilage or unstable delivery reliability Among other scenarios, it supports the evaluation of different options regarding transportation routes For the demonstration, an analysis based on contrasting the actual and the plan number of items reveals a systematic deviation from the planned route about 50% of the articles are taking an unplanned transportation route which includes air-transportation The results are also reflected in the associated values for cost and duration Figure 7 depicts a snapshot that shows the number of items on its route and the resulting costs ? for the complete global route and broken down on sub route level. Especially the inclusion of sensor data allows to extend the evaluation to a variety of non monetary measures, e.g. on average transport conditions For well-structured problems the respective data can also be used as a flexile and precise socket for model-based systems that exploit the abundance of relevant optimization algorithms  7. Conclusions and outlook  As shown, the discussed data model incorporates the requirements introduced in section 3. Next to the scenarios presented in this paper, several others have already been filled with demonstration data. Although concrete dimensions and performance indicators vary, the basic model fits both the manufacturing and the vehicle case By aiming at integration and by including aggregation hierarchies and anchors for a variety of slicing options, the model is conceived to be adaptable to all sorts of applications that aim at the monitoring and he analysis of complex good flows with a multitude of individual steps and a lack transparency due to complexity, volume, and geographical as well as organizational distribution. The approach is especially Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 suited for automated data collection scenarios which deliver large amounts of precise data in near time This again highlights the role of the RFID technology and standards like those defined by EPCglobal, which are also seen as facilitators for the data integration across enterprise borders  The role OLAP plays in this research is twofold On the one hand, OLAP represents an established and powerful analytical approach by itself. On the other hand, during the iterative design of the model and the prototype it has proven to be a viable option to vi 


prototype it has proven to be a viable option to visually gather insights into the potential of an integrated, multidimensional data collection This data collection is seen as a core building block of a DWH with RFID data for applications in logistics. The DWH approach allows to embed analytical RFID-applications into centralized and specialized BI units and thereby to align them with the general trend in the decision support domain towards increased professionalization. However, from the data model it can already be seen that the refinement steps for the raw RFID measurements feeding the DWH are by no means trivial  They include 1. Assigning RFID measurement events to units of analysis ? in the model: the track section This also entails the necessity for a purposeful grouping of RFID readers 2. Deciding on what measurements are needed for which analysis at what time ? with consequences regarding the transfer medium \(satellite, cell phone network, or fixed line middleware infrastructure 3. Aligning the track sections with the planned route 4. Binding together events measured with RFID and data captured by other means, e.g. when sorting out defective products 5. Harmonizing the measurement values syntactically and semantically for all involved organizations 6. Harmonizing the dimensional data to get meaningful results 7. Building up the aggregation hierarchies which include packaging and routing hierarchies. It needs to be considered that the actual and planned routes can deviate and the routes and the aggregation hierarchies for the track section need to be \(re after each data load  Upcoming research activities need to address this ETL-process and provide for suitable ETL tool designs. Besides, the prototype, the data generator, and the resulting data set are subject to continuous expansion and refinement Parallel to this, further research activities aim at a quantitative exploration of the demand among different types of firms as well as at an extensive interview-based validation for both the prototype and based on that, the scenarios it embodies During this process, the prototype not only serves as a model for a potential analysis system. It also becomes a communication and research tool that visualizes conceived RFID scenarios and makes them falsifiable  8. References  1] Angeles, R., ?RFID Technologies: Supply-Chain Applications and Implementation Issues?, Information Systems Management, vol. 22, no. 1, 2005, pp. 51-65  2] Asif, Z. and Mandviwalla, M., ?Integrating the Supply Chain with RFID: A technical and business analysis Communications of the Association for Information Systems, vol. 393, no. 427, 2005, pp. 393-426  3] Aviv, Y., ?On the Benefits of Collaborative Forecasting Partnerships Between Retailers and manufacturers?, Management Science, 2007 


agement Science, 2007  4] Baars, H. and Kemper, H.-G., ?Management Support with Structured and Unstructured Data - An Integrated Business Intelligence Framework?, Information Systems Management, vol. 25, no. 2, 2008, pp. 132-148  5] Baars, H., Kemper, H.-G., Lasi, H. and Siegel, M Combining RFID Technology and Business Intelligence for Supply Chain Optimization ? Scenarios for Retail Logistics?, Proc. HICSS-41, 2007  6] Baars, H., Sun, X., Str  ker, J. and Gille, D., ?Profiling Benefits of RFID Applications?, Proc. Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS '08  7] Bachmann, H. and Hoffmann, E., Beh  lterManagement in der Praxis: Die St. Galler Beh  lterManagement-Studie. State of the Art und Entwicklungstendenzen bei der Steuerung von Ladungstr  gerkreisl  ufen, Deutscher Verkehrs-Verlag Hamburg, 2006  8] Bagchi, P.K. and Skjoett-Larsen, T., ?Supply chain integration: a European survey?, The International Journal of Logistics, 2005  9] Boushka, M., Ginsburg, L., et al., Auto-ID on the Move: The Value of Auto-ID Technolotgy in Freight Transportation, AutoID-Labs Whitepaper, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 10] Brewer, A. and Sloan, N., ?Intelligent Tracking in Manufacturing?, Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing, vol 10, 1999, pp. 245-250  11] Clauberg, R., ?RFID and Sensor Networks?, RFID Workshop, University of St. Gallen, Switzerland, 2004  12] Codd, E.F., Codd, S.B. and Salley, C.T., Providing OLAP \(on-line Analytical Processing IT Mandate, Codd Date, Inc, 1993  13] Coulon, C.-H. and Decker, J., ?Generelle  bersicht und Auswertung der RFID-Anwendungsf  lle?, RFID in der Logistik : Erfolgsfaktoren f  r die Praxis - Dokumentation des BVL-Arbeitskreises "RFID in der Logistik", D. Seifert and J. Decker, eds., Deutscher Verkehrs Verlag, 2005, pp 99-105  14] Coyle, B., Bardi, J.E. and Langley, C.J., ?The management of business logistics?, Ohio: South-Western Thomson Learning, 2003  15] Desmet, P. and Renaudin, V., ?Estimation of product category sales responsiveness to allocated shelf space International Journal of Research in Marketing, vol. 15 1998, pp. 443-457  16] Disney, S.M. and Towill, D.R., ?The effect of vendor managed inventory \(VMI fect in supply chains?, international Journal of Production Economics, vol. 85, 2003, pp. 199-215  17] EPCglobal, ?EPCglobal-Standards?, 2008  18] Fleisch, E., Ringbeck, J., et al., RFID - The Opportunity for Logistics Service Providers, Auto-ID LABS, 2005  19] Fl  rkemeier, C., ?EPC-Technologie ? vom Auto-ID 


19] Fl  rkemeier, C., ?EPC-Technologie ? vom Auto-ID Center zu EPCglobal?, 2005, pp. 87-101  20] Gille, D. and Str  ker, J., ?Into the Unknown - Measuring the Business Performance of RFID Applications?, Proc 16th European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS 2008  21] Hector, G., Jiawei, H., Xiaolei, L. and Diego, K., ?Warehousing and Analyzing Massive RFID Data Sets?, Proc Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE'06 ciety, 2006  22] Huang, G.Q., Lau, J.S.K. and Mak, K.L., ?The Impacts of Sharing Production Information on Supply Chain Dynamics: a Review of the Literature?, International Journal of Production Research, vol. 41, 2003, pp. 1483-1517  23] Inmon, W.H., Building the data warehouse, John Wiley Sons, Inc., New York, NY, USA, 2005  24] Joshi, Y.V., ?Information Visibility And Its Effect On Supply Chain Dynamics?, Master Thesis, 2000  25] Kambil, A. and Brooks, J.D., ?Auto-ID across the value chain: from dramatic potential to greater efficiency &amp profit?, AutoID Labs Whitepaper, 2002  26] Kemper, H.-G., Baars, H. and Hannich, M., BIAnalysen von RFID-Daten in der Produktionslogistik Exemplarisch dargestellt am Beispiel interner Produktionsprozesse und des Ladungstr  germanagements Research Paper Chair of Information Systems, University of Stuttgart, 2008  27] Kimball, R., The data warehouse toolkit, Wiley, 2002  28] Kinsella, B., ?Delivering the goods?, Industrial engineer, vol. 37, no. 3, 2005, pp. 24-30  29] Knebel, U., Leimeister, J.M. and Krcmar, H., ?Potentials of Tracking and Tracing Technologies - The Perspective of IT Decision Makers in Germany?, Proc. 15th European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS  30] Krompa  S., Aulbach, S. and Kemper, A., ?Data Staging for OLAP- and OLTP-Applications on RFID Data?, Proc. BTW2007, 2007  31] Lahiri, S., RFID sourcebook, IBM Press, Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2006  32] Lee, Y.M., Cheng, F. and Leung, Y.T., ?Exploring the impact of RFID on supply chain dynamics?, Proc. Proceedings of the 36th conference on Winter simulation, Winter Simulation Conference, 2004  33] Mor  n, H.J., Ayub, S. and McFarlane, D., Auto-ID Use Case: Improving Inventory Visibility in a Retail Company ? Impact on existing Procedures and Information Systems, AutoID-Labs Whitepaper, 2004  34] Negash, S. and Gray, P., ?Business Intelligence?, Proc of Ninth Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS 2003  35] Niederman, F., Mathieu, R.G., Morley, R. and Kwon I.-W., ?Examing RFID Applications in Supply Chain Management?, Communications of The ACM, vol. 50, no. 7 2007, pp. 92-101 


 36] Wong, C.Y., McFarlane, D., Ahmad Zaharudin, A and Agarwal, V., ?The intelligent product driven supply chain?, IEEE International Conference on Man and Cybernetics Systems 2002 vol. 4, 2002  37] Zhou, H. and Benton, W.C., ?Supply chain practice and information sharing?, Journal of Operations Management, vol. 25, 2007, pp. 1348-1365 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


21] N. M. Dixon, Common knowledge : how companies thrive by sharing what they know. Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2000 22] K. Knorr Cetina, The Manufacture of Knowledge: An essay on the constructivist and contexutal nature of science. Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1981 23] R. J. J. Boland, "An Ecology of Distributed Practice Involving Knowledge Work," in The Social Study of Information and Communication Technology: Innovation Actors, and Contexts C. Avgerou, C. Ciborra, and F. Land Eds. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004 24] M. Agar, Speaking of Ethnography. Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1986 25] J. Van Maanen, "The Fact of Fiction in Organizational Ethnography," ASQ, vol. 24, pp. 539-550, 1979 26] M. B. Miles and A. M. Huberman, Qualitative Data Analysis: A Sourcebook of New Methods. Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1984 27] S. R. Barley, "Technology as an Occasion for Structuring: Evidence from Observation of CT Scanners and the Social Order of Radiology Departments," ASQ, vol 31, pp. 78-108, 1986 28] M. L. Markus, "Toward a Theory of Knowledge Reuse: Types of Knowledge Reuse Situations and Factors in Reuse Success," Journal of Management Information Systems, vol. 18, pp. 57 - 94, 2001 29] W. J. Orlikowski, "Knowing in practice:  Enacting a collective capability in distributed organizing Organization Science, vol. 13, pp. 249?273, 2002 30] C  sterlund and P. Carlile, "Relations in Practice Sorting through practice theories on knowledge sharing in complex organizations," The Information Society, vol. 21 pp. 91-107, 2005 31] L. A. Suchman, Plans and Situated Actions: The problem of human-machine communication. Cambridge Cambridge University Press, 1987 32] M. S. Ackerman and C. Halverson, "Organizational Memory: Processes, Boundary Objects, &amp; Trajectories CSCW, vol. 13, pp. 155-189, 2004 33] R. J. Boland, "Information System Use as a hermeneutic process," in Information Systems Research Contemporary Approaches and Emergent Traditions, H.-E Nissen, H. K. Klein, and R. A. Hirchheim, Eds Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1991, pp. 439-464  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





