html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;"> 1 Image-Based Relative Navigation for the Autonomous Refueling Problem using Predictive Rendering Adam D. Weaver, 1st Lt, USAF Michael J. Veth, Lt Col, USAF Department of Electrical Engineering Air Force Institute of Technology Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433 937-255-3636 adam.weaver@afit.edu michael.veth@afit.edu  Abstract  Autonomous aerial refueling requires a high level of accuracy and integrity.  A great deal of research has been conducted in this problem area and has successfully demonstrated techniques with sufficient accuracy for fully autonomous refueling.  Unfortunately, significantly less research has focused on the integrity of the relative navigation solution, especially in the presence of degraded sensor operation In this paper, we present an image-based relative navigation algorithm which uses a predictive rendering technique to determine the relative pose of a lead aircraft using a monocular imaging camera.  The predictive rendering algorithm is developed using image processing techniques and the performance of the algorithm is evaluated from an observability perspective using flight test data.  Three variations of the algorithm are analyzed:  sum squared difference, magnitude of gradient, and gradient with threshold.  The observability of translation and rotation errors is discussed for all three techniques, noting any significant issues for each approach.  Overall, the predictive rendering algorithm is shown to provide an accurate estimate of the relative position and attitude to a lead aircraft using a monocular camera.  In addition, the algorithm can be tuned to provide a measurement that emphasizes precision versus convergence stability based on the mission requirements.12 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION.................................................................1 2. BACKGROUND ..................................................................2 3. IMAGE PROCESSING .........................................................3 4. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK ..............................11 REFERENCES ......................................................................12 BIOGRAPHY ........................................................................12 1. INTRODUCTION The advent of unmanned aerial systems \(UAS revolutionized the way the United States Air Force \(USAF conducts operations.  No longer are aerial platforms limited by human endurance, but rather the endurance of the aircraft itself.  This limiting factor can be even further reduced with 1 1 U.S. Government work not protected by U.S. copyright   2 IEEEAC paper #1240, Version 2, Updated December 18, 2008 the use of automated in-flight refueling.  Furthermore, with the imminent arrival of Unmanned Combat Aerial Systems UCAS mission success.  These high-performance, heavily-armed systems will be a critical capability in the tactical battlefield and commanders will require them to loiter for longer periods of time than the current unmanned systems.  Thus the need for a robust, autonomous refueling technique is vital for future mission success [1], [2 Many efforts have already shown success in solving this problem, primarily using Global Positioning System \(GPS approaches [2], [5].  Unfortunately, there are a number of limitations associated with GPS-based autonomous refueling systems. With GPS, possible satellite acquisition issues exist for the receiver aircraft due to the tanker blocking large areas of the sky above it.  There is also the threat of GPS being denied or degraded in hostile 


threat of GPS being denied or degraded in hostile environments [4].  The Air Force Research Laboratory  s AFRL AAR chartered to determine how well an autonomous system can function in environments where GPS is either degraded or denied [9].  This research will directly contribute to this specific area of the AAR program Previous visual sensor approaches \([7], [8 potential of image measurements for relative positioning However, the flight tests discussed in [7] showed the limited success when attempting to track specific features \(corners or edges were significant challenges in accurately predicting the location of the tanker aircraft image in an experimental environment.  The approach presented in this paper seeks to predict and match the entire image \(i.e., predictive rendering find and track specific features of the aircraft Applying a correlation algorithm to images received from a monocular camera, the follower aircraft could determine any error between the predicted and true attitude and range to the lead tanker aircraft.  Fusing this image data with the onboard Inertial Navigation System \(INS a robust navigation technique for autonomous UAS formation flight that could potentially not require external sources such as GPS or datalink between aircraft.  The ultimate goal will be determining the optimal 2 instrumentation suite for accurate relative positioning between the tanker and receiver aircraft, which will be discussed in future publications  Figure 1.  Coordinate frames used for relative navigation solution in refueling operation.  T, R, and C represent the tanker body frame, receiver body frame, and camera frame, respectively This paper is organized as follows.  First, the required reference frames are defined.  Second, the geometry associated with the autonomous refueling problem is developed.  Next, the predictive rendering algorithm is presented along with the subsequent candidate matching algorithms.  Finally, the predictive rendering and matching algorithms are evaluated using flight test data and conclusions regarding the performance of the algorithm are drawn 2. BACKGROUND This section will highlight some key mathematical and engineering background information to serve as a basis for the developments in this paper Reference Frames Common to navigation calculations, there are several reference frames [3] that are used in the techniques presented in this paper 1 2 3 Subscripts below any b-frame notation designate which aircraft is referenced.  T represents the tanker/lead aircraft and R represents the receiver/wing aircraft   Relative Navigation Parameters Table 1 highlights some key parameters used to determine the relative navigation state and defines the subscript and superscript notation convention.  The relative navigation equations will be presented in the predictive rendering section Table 1.  Relative Navigation Parameters Parameter Definition n Tp  Position of tanker aircraft in navigation frame 


Tp  Position of tanker aircraft in navigation frame n Rp  Position of receiver aircraft in navigation frame Rb cp  Position of camera in receiver body frame cs  Line of sight vector from receiver to contact point in the camera frame c bT C  Direction cosine matrix transforming coordinates in body frame of tanker to receiver camera frame  Coordinate Transformations With the large number of available reference frames to address the relative navigation problem, a vector will often need to be transformed from one frame to another.  This brings rise to the coordinate transformation, which is often accomplished by use of the direction cosine matrix \(DCM The DCM from frame a to frame b is denoted by baC A vector in basis b can easily be calculated by premultiplying the vector of basis a by the DCM as shown below ab a b rCr =                 \(1 Predictive Rendering Algorithm The predictive rendering algorithm generates a predicted sensor image using a three-dimensional structural model of the lead aircraft combined with an a priori estimate of the relative pose between the imaging sensor and the lead aircraft.  In this paper, the algorithm was implemented in Matlab using the Virtual Reality \(VR model of the KC-135R Stratotanker.  The VR toolbox uses OpenGL-based techniques to render scenes of interest  3  Figure 2.   Sample 3D Rendering of Tanker Aircraft MATLAB  s Virtual Reality environment renders a predicted image of the lead tanker from the perspective of the receiver aircraft The relative pose of the lead aircraft is defined as the position and orientation of the origin lead body frame relative to the imaging camera frame on the receiving aircraft as bceReTnebncbc pppCCCs RR 2 n b b n c b c b T R RT CCCC =                           \(3 These relative position and orientation parameters are then provided to the predictive rendering algorithm which returns a predicted image which would be expected from the imaging sensor.  Matlab would then generate a 3D rendering of the predicted image for any desired translation and rotation.  A sample rendering is shown in Figure 2 In order to simulate refueling conditions, an environment was developed to generate test cases based on a relative navigation solution during aerial refueling. The initial simulation environment was verified using data collected during flight tests by the Northrop Grumman Corporation These data included time-space positioning information TSPI 


TSPI as infrared imaging from a camera mounted on the nose of the receiver with a pitch angle of +28o.  The simulation environment  s goal is to accurately predict the image seen from the receiver camera by computing a relative navigation solution based on the TSPI data.  A sample predicted image from the simulation is shown in Figure 3.  Here, the predicted location of the tanker \(with an intentional error for easier distinction infrared image of the tanker   Figure 3.  Rendered Image Prediction \(SemiTransparent transparent rendering of the predicted tanker location is superimposed on an actual infrared image from the receiver camera. The predicted image corresponding to an a priori relative position and attitude serves as a prediction of the actual image measured by the imaging sensor.  The predicted and measured images must be compared in order to determine the accuracy of the a priori state estimate. This comparison metric is generally termed as the residual between predicted and measured and is described in the next section 3. IMAGE PROCESSING During a refueling operation, the digital camera onboard the UAS will take periodic images of the tanker aircraft.  The relative navigation system will generate predicted images of the tanker as seen from the receiver.  These predicted images will be compared to the measured image, to provide a virtual measurement as feedback to the system.  This type of feedback will be a critical component of the overall image-aided, autonomous aerial refueling flight control system \(Appendix A  For this analysis, two specific relative positions were examined:  the pre-contact and contact positions.  At the pre-contact position, the receiver aircraft is approximately 50 feet behind and 10 feet below the tip of the refueling boom.  In the contact position, the receiver aircraft is positioned just below the fixed boom, with its refueling receptacle directly in line with the boom extension.  Figures 4 and 5 show example infrared images from the receiver camera perspective while in pre-contact and contact positions, respectively.  The relative positioning accuracy while the receiver aircraft is in pre-contact, contact, and transitioning between these two points is absolutely critical and thus these are optimal positions to evaluate an imageaided algorithm  4   Figure 4.  Typical infrared image from receiver aircraft camera while in pre-contact position  Figure 5.  Typical infrared image from receiver aircraft camera while in contact position The discrepancies between the truth and predicted images will aid the optimal estimator to update its relative position to the lead aircraft.  These discrepancies are dependent on some comparative metric. In order to evaluate how well the images match, three image discrepancy metrics are considered:  a sum squared difference of intensity, a magnitude of gradient comparison, and a gradient with threshold technique.  These approaches attempt to quantify the  error  between a given predicted image and the truth image.  Thus, the plots shown in this section can be conceptually thought of as cost functions.  The global minimum should be the optimal prediction \(i.e., where the prediction exactly matches the truth image 


prediction exactly matches the truth image  Sum Squared Difference The images were first converted to grayscale and the respective image intensities were normalized by first subtracting the mean image value dividing by the standard deviation of the pixel intensities  Equation 4 I norm III   4 Now, to find the sum squared difference, C, between an image, I , and an image N \(each with n pixels expression in Equation 5 is calculated    n i ii NIC 1 2                          \(5 Examining the individual degrees of freedom for a particular time epoch, the roll, pitch, and yaw were perturbed from -200 to 200 from the nominal, and the x,y and z body axes were perturbed from -40  to 40  from the nominal contact position.  These plots are shown in Figures 6 and 7.  The values in the plots are the sum-squared difference \(or error image.  One can see that the sum squared difference approach shows a smooth rise in the error as the perturbations deviate away from the nominal \(0 on the each plot  s horizontal axis  Figure 6.  Angle perturbations using sum squared difference approach.  The predicted image is independently perturbed in roll, pitch, and yaw about the nominal pre-contact position.  The minimum error should occur where the images are best correlated 5  Figure 7.   Translation perturbations using sum squared difference approach.  The predicted image is independently perturbed in the x, y, and z body axes about the nominal pre-contact position.  The minimum error should occur where the images are best correlated The minimum error deviates slightly from zero in certain degrees of freedom.  This is due to small discrepancies in the rendered model dimensions compared to the true images of the tanker.  For example, the engine sizes appear slightly different between the rendered and true images at certain attitudes A sample surface plot is shown in Figure 8.  This particular plot shows the relationship between both roll perturbation and body-frame longitudinal \(x-axis nominal image position.  Deviations are observable as the surface smoothly slopes to higher magnitudes of error the further the rendered image moves from the nominal position As another example, a surface was generated showing the correlation between perturbations about the x-axis and perturbations about pitch \(Figure 9 observability issue in this case, since the very large  valley   would make it nearly impossible for the image processing system to isolate the minimum error 


system to isolate the minimum error  Figure 8.  Example surface generated using sum squared difference approach by perturbing both the translation on the x-axis and the amount of roll simultaneously at pre-contact position  Figure 9.   Poor observability example surface generated with sum squared difference approach by perturbing both the x-axis translation and amount of pitch simultaneously at pre-contact position.  The large  valley  makes observability of the optimal minimum location extremely difficult Additionally, one final mode at the pre-contact position that shows observability issues is the z-axis translation coupled with pitch.  This surface is shown in Figure 10.  Again, the undulating valley through this surface will cause difficulties in determining the true minimum.  The additional modes for the other coupled degrees of freedom demonstrated favorable behavior similar to the mode of Figure 8, showing good overall observability of errors for this technique 6  Figure 10.  Example surface generated with sum squared difference approach by perturbing the z-axis translation and the amount of pitch simultaneously at pre-contact position.  The  valley  that also exists here makes the minimum difficult to locate Now analyzing the contact position for the sum squared difference approach, two surfaces are presented showing modes of interest.  The surface in Figure 11 shows the same perturbation as Figure 8, with similar, smooth behavior Figure 12 shows the same perturbation as Figure 9, again showing poor observability since the majority of the surface is very flat with no distinct minimum  Figure 11.  Example surface generated using sum squared difference approach by perturbing both the translation on the x-axis and the amount of roll simultaneously at  the contact position  Figure 12.  Example surface generated using sum squared difference approach by perturbing both the translation on the x-axis and the amount of pitch simultaneously at the contact position Magnitude of Gradient A second approach for determining image correlation is to convert the images to gradient space.  A gradient is a mathematical calculation to determine the change in image intensity between adjacent pixels.  Areas containing a sudden change in pixel intensity indicate edges or corners In this research, these typically exist at the edges of the tanker aircraft in the image.  Due to the infrared image there are a limited number of significant edges or corners in the background \(sky processing filter in Matlab known as the Prewitt filter Equation 6 gradient matrix            101 101 101 


101 6 Similarly, taking the transpose of this filter and applying it to the image will yield the gradient matrix for the vertical direction the image is calculated through the following expression 22 yxmagnorm GGGG +==                     \(7 This magnitude is then normalized across the image, similar to the previous calculation for sum squared difference  magG magmag GG   8 7 Figures 13 and 14 show similar plots as Figures 6 and 7 Here, one notices that the error increases more sharply as the perturbations vary from the nominal position.  However as one perturbs farther and farther from the nominal, the error begins to oscillate rather than smoothly increase  Figure 13.   Angle perturbations using magnitude of gradient approach.  The predicted image is independently perturbed in roll, pitch, and yaw about the nominal pre-contact position.  The minimum error should occur where the images are best correlated  Figure 14.   Translation perturbations using magnitude of gradient approach.  The predicted image is independently perturbed in the x, y, and z body axes about the nominal pre-contact position Figure 15 shows a similar surface as seen in Figure 8, but where the correlation technique was to compare magnitude of gradient.  Here, one sees that the error increases more rapidly than the sum-squared difference method when the image deviates from the nominal position.  There is a distinct, sharp minimum indicating the nominal location  Figure 15.   Example surface generated using magnitude of gradient approach by perturbing both the x-axis translation and amount of roll simultaneously at the pre-contact position.  The sharp minimum indicates good observability Additional surfaces are shown in Figures 16-18.  Each of these modes shows numerous local minima, thus making the optimal position difficult to determine.  With multiple modes showing this type of behavior, the magnitude of gradient approach alone would not be a robust enough technique for precise error detection   Figure 16.  Example surface generated using magnitude of gradient approach by perturbing both the y-axis translation and the amount of yaw simultaneously at the pre-contact position.  There are many local minima, indicating poor observability 8  Figure 17.  Example surface generated using magnitude of gradient by perturbing both y-axis translation and the amount of roll simultaneously at the pre-contact position.  Again, multiple minima cause observability problems  Figure 18.  Example surface generated using magnitude of gradient approach by perturbing both z-axis perturbation and the amount of pitch simultaneously at the pre-contact position Oscillations throughout this mode cause minima 


Oscillations throughout this mode cause minima across the surface which could generate significant difficulties in image correlation Now examining the magnitude of gradient technique while at the contact position, Figure 19 shows rather poor observability to the errors, but there is a distinct minimum at the nominal location.  If the errors begin very near the optimal position, then this approach could find the correct minimum.  Figure 20 mimics the behavior of Figures 9 and 12, demonstrating that x-axis translation error coupled with pitch error proves to be difficult to detect   Figure 19.  Example surface generated using magnitude of gradient by perturbing both x-axis translation and the amount of roll simultaneously at the contact position.  There is poor observability across most of the surface, except for the very distinct minimum at the optimal location  Figure 20.  Example surface generated using magnitude of gradient approach by perturbing both x-axis perturbation and the amount of pitch simultaneously at the contact position.  Similar to Figures 9 and 12, there is poor observability with this mode, including a  valley  in the surface Magnitude of Gradient with Threshold For a third approach, the same magnitude of gradient is computed for each image, but the magnitudes are then filtered based on a threshold technique.  Through experimentation, a threshold is found that will amplify strong areas of gradient magnitude.  Each pixel in the image is compared to the threshold value and is set to a value of zero if below the threshold, or set to a value of one if above the threshold.  This will remove the few small, unwanted edges \(background clutter or small features on the surface of 9 the aircraft aircraft outline In order to avoid aliasing effects from the threshold technique, the image is passed through a filter in Matlab that applies a Gaussian blur to smooth the edges of the aircraft A sample image is shown in Figure 21 Figures 22 and 23 show the results when the image was perturbed using the gradient with threshold technique.  One can see that the plots do not have oscillations that are quite as severe as the standard gradient plots shown in Figures 9 and 10.  However, the oscillations are still present, causing local minima at values significantly different from the nominal position.  Furthermore, in certain degrees of freedom \(such as roll, pitch, and y-axis perturbation minimum value is actually skewed by a few degrees/feet This is again due to small dimension discrepancies at certain attitudes  Figure 21.  Example image after applying magnitude of gradient with threshold.  The threshold on the gradient amplifies the edges of the tanker while removing any unwanted gradient due to background clutter or lens reflection  Figure 22.   Angle perturbation using magnitude of gradient with threshold.  The predicted image is independently perturbed in roll, pitch, and yaw about the nominal position.  The minimum error should occur where the images are best correlated   Figure 23.  Translation perturbation using magnitude of gradient threshold.  The predicted image is independently perturbed in the x, y, and z body axes 


independently perturbed in the x, y, and z body axes about the nominal position.  The minimum error should occur where the images are best correlated An example surface generated from this approach is shown in Figure 24.  This particular surface is not quite as smooth as the sum squared difference plot, but shows a sharper rise away from the nominal position as perturbations are introduced.  This surface also does not possess a distinct 10 minimum at the nominal image location, again causing a potential issue with observability.  Furthermore, examining the mode of x-axis perturbation with simultaneous change in  Figure 24.  Example surface generated using magnitude of gradient with threshold approach by perturbing both the x-axis translation and the amount of roll simultaneously at the pre-contact position The multiple minima near \(0,0 optimal location difficult to detect  Figure 25.  Example surface generated using magnitude of gradient with threshold by perturbing the x-axis translation and amount of pitch simultaneously at the pre-contact position.  Similar to the sum squared difference technique, a  valley   exists that hinders error detection pitch, we see similar results from the sum squared difference technique.  This surface is shown in Figure 25 Finally, examining the magnitude of gradient with threshold while at the contact position, the first mode presented for comparison is the x-axis translation error coupled with roll error.  This surface is shown in Figure 26.  Very similar to Figure 15, there is a very distinct minimum that would easily be detected when near the optimal image location However, when the errors are larger, the undulations in the outer portions of the surface would make error detection difficult.  Furthermore, in Figure 27, the x-axis error couple with pitch error is once again difficult to detect.  Similar to previous plots, the undulations and large  valley  could make the distinct minimum difficult to detect  Figure 26.  Example surface generated using magnitude of gradient with threshold by perturbing the x-axis translation and amount of roll simultaneously at the contact position.  There is a distinct, observable minimum when near the optimal location, but large errors would fall on the unobservable, oscillating outer portion of the surface  Figure 27.  Example surface generated using magnitude of gradient with threshold by perturbing both the x-axis translation and amount of pitch simultaneously at the contact position.  Again observability issues exist due to the oscillations and the  valley  through the surface  11 Analysis Though the magnitude of gradient technique generates a distinct minimum in the surface of Figure 15, its observability is actually poor in many of the other modes shown in Figures 16-18.  Furthermore, if the predicted image shows large errors \(i.e., one or more translation or rotation degrees of freedom are significantly different from those seen in the true image could struggle to identify the actual error.  A short example will help illustrate this point Considering the two surfaces presented in Figures 8 and 15 assume that the system predicts a translation in the x-axis that has an error of 20 ft.  In the case of the sum-squared difference correlation, if one perturbs the predicted value 


difference correlation, if one perturbs the predicted value about this point \(i.e. considers points on the surface in the neighborhood of this prediction between the new images and the truth image, a smaller error will definitely be detected and the system can adjust its prediction closer to matching the true image.  This process can be repeated until the prediction eventually moves in the neighborhood of close correlation \(near the point \(0,0 the graph exist very near the nominal point, however, since this region of the surface is rather flat and thus the error values vary very slowly With the same conditions in the magnitude of gradient approach, small perturbations about this point on the surface will likely yield very similar results to the predicted point In other words, all of the points in the neighborhood of this predicted point will yield similar errors.  Thus, the system will have difficultly not only detecting an error is present but also determining in which degree of freedom the error exists and how to correct it Considering the magnitude of gradient with threshold approach, the surface shows similar behavior to the sum squared difference surface, though the errors appear to increase a little more rapidly than in Figure 8.  Though this attribute would help with error detection, there is still ambiguity around the nominal point, since this portion of the surface contains a few different minima.  The distinct optimal minimum would be difficult to detect With this reasoning, the most robust approach is to use the sum squared differencing technique for coarse error detection, then transition to the magnitude of gradient approach.  The sum squared difference technique also shows the fewest issues with detecting errors across the entire surface.  There are only two modes \(x-axis translation error coupled with pitch error and z-axis translation error coupled with pitch error This is true for the receiver aircraft in both the contact and pre-contact formation positions.  Beginning with the smoother curve will allow the system to more easily observe errors and generate better predictions. Once the error begins to reach the nominal point \(i.e., the error surface begins to flatten gradient approach and fine tune the prediction until the global minimum \(and nominal point Based on the surfaces generated in the three image processing techniques, there is an evident observability issue with pitch.  The sum squared difference and gradient with threshold techniques showed common problems with the pitch and x-translation mode, while the magnitude of gradient had undesirable results with the x-axis translation and pitch mode \(Figure 25 Since the intended approach is to use the sum squared difference as a coarse technique and then transition to gradient, it appears the x-axis translation coupled with pitch and the z-axis translation coupled with pitch will be the major modes to research in detail, particularly in ways to increase visibility to these errors.  Perhaps additional sensors or specific failure modes will be needed to ensure the system has robust performance despite this issue 4. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK The above analysis shows the feasibility of rendering an entire image of a lead aircraft as a means to develop an image-aided relative positioning algorithm.  The three proposed predictive rendering and correlation techniques shown have their individual strengths and weaknesses concerning observability of errors, but the combination of sum squared difference and gradient space techniques appears to have the best chance to provide a robust method to accurately predict the best image of the lead aircraft Appendix A contains a block diagram of the overall autonomous aerial refueling flight control system, and 


highlights how the work in this paper will contribute to the larger research effort In the next step of this research, an Unscented Kalman Filter UKF navigation solution.  The UKF will generate sigma points representing the optimal estimate plus various perturbations all of which will be used to generate predictive renderings The filter will weight the sigma points based on the detected errors between the rendered images and the truth images and thus use the images as an update to track the most accurate relative position and translation between the aircraft With a reliable UKF simulated, the final milestone of this research will be to conduct a sensitivity analysis among available sensors to develop the optimal, most robust relative positioning system.   Various grades of inertial sensors and possibly ranging sensors will be analyzed to determine the best performance.  Furthermore, the necessity of a datalink between aircraft will be analyzed to help determine if the relative positioning system can be strictly passive, or must rely on transmitted inertial or position information from the tanker for truly robust operation 12 REFERENCES 1] A. F. Barfield and J. Hinchman  An Equivalent Model for UAV Automated Aerial Refueling Research  in AIAA Modeling and Simulation Technologies Conference Wright-Patterson AFB, OH; Air Force Research Laboratory, Air Vehicles Directorate, August 2005 2] J. Hinchman and D. Schreiter  Automated Aerial Refueling  in Presentation to Aerial Refueling Systems Advisory Group \(ARSAG Air Force Research Laboratory, Air Vehicles Directorate April 2007 3] P.D. Groves, Principles of GNSS, Inertial, and Multisensor Integrated Navigation Systems.  Boston, MA Artech House,2008 4] S.A. Khanafseh and B. Pervan  Autonomous Airborne Refueling of Unmanned Air Vehicles using the Global Positioning System  Journal of Aircraft, vol. 44, no. 5 pp. 1670-1682, September-October 2007 5] S.M. Ross  Formation Flight Control for Aerial Refueling  Master  s thesis, Graduate School of Engineering and Management, Air Force Institute of Technology \(AETC 2006, AFIT/GAE/ENY/06-M35 6] J.H. Spencer  Optical Tracking for Relative Positioning in Autonomous Aerial Refueling  Master  s thesis Graduate School of Engineering and Management, Air Force Institute of Technology \(AETC AFB OH, March 2007, AFIT/GE/ENG/07-22 7] D.H. Titterton and J.L. Weston, Strapdown Inertial Technology.  Stevenage, Herts, UK:  The Institution of Electrical Engineers, 2004 8] S. Vendra, et al  Addressing corner detection issues for machine vision based UAV aerial refueling  Machine Vision and Applications, no. 18, pp.261-273, January 2007 9] G. Warwick  AFRL Advances Autonomous Aerial Refueling  Aviation Week, June 2008 BIOGRAPHY 1Lt Adam Weaver is a graduate student at the Air Force Institute of Technology at Wright-Patterson AFB, OH.  He is pursuing a M.S. in Electrical Engineering, focusing on Guidance Navigation, and Control.  He earned his B.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Baylor University in December 2004.  Prior to his current assignment, he served as an engineer and executive officer at the Space 


as an engineer and executive officer at the Space Development and Test Wing at Kirtland AFB, NM  Lt Col Mike Veth is currently an Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering at the Air Force Institute of Technology where he serves as the Deputy Director of the Advanced Navigation Technology Center.  His current research focus is understanding and implementing bio-inspired methods to fuse image and inertial systems for navigation and control.  He received his Ph.D. in Electical Engineering from the Air Force Institute of Technology and a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Purdue University.  Lt Col Veth is a member of the IEEE, Institute of Navigation, Tau Beta Pi, and Eta Kappa Nu.  In addition, Lt Col Veth is a graduate of the Air Force Test Pilot School     13 Appendix A.  Image-Aided Autonomous Aerial Refueling Flight Control System   pre></body></html 


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





