Cost Efficient Data Collection of Sensory Originated Data using Context-Aware Mobile Devices Prem Prakash Jayaraman*, Arkady Zaslavsky*, Jerker Delsing  prem.jayaraman  arkady.zaslavsky}@infotech.monash.edu.au, jerker.delsing@ltu.se Monash University, Melbourne, Australia  Lulea University of Technology, Lulea, Sweden  Abstract Sensory originated data collection and processing has always been a big challenge in wireless sensor networks WSN\. WSN represent a distributed producer of large amount of valuable data required by varied number of applications. In this paper we propose the use of context aware data mules CADAMULE\ as a solution for smart data collection within sensor networks. We present an extension to Context Spaces modelling theory by incorporating context discovery at runtime This facilitates our system to discover new context attributes by looking into previous situations and events when pre-defined context is not sufficient for the reasoning process. We use this model as a base to provide contextual information to the mobile data mule whose spare capacity for communication and processing can be used to collect and process sensor data. The focus of the paper is to propose and evaluate a cost-efficient data collection technique which uses a cost formula computed from the context information obtained by the system. We validate our system by a simulation in which we try to reason out and identify the best and also the most cost efficient data mule. The context aware data mule negotiates with the sensor node collecting and delivering the data to the sink I  I NTRODUCTION  Sensor networks have gained a lot of prominence during recent years due to increasing number of applications in various fields including healthcare, environmental monitoring smart homes, military applications etc [1  W i t h i n c r e a s e d  interests and applications, sensor nodes have found themselves embedded in almost everything including computing devices vehicles, humans, animals etc, the result of which is large amount of sensory originated data which needs to be collected efficiently and effectively. Sensor nodes are distributed and work together to achieve single or multiple goals producing massive amounts of valuable data. They also are energy constrained devices [2  H en ce d a t a co l l ect i o n w i th in s u ch  energy constrained, valuable data producing network is a major challenge. The monitoring abilities, autonomous operation of sensor nodes make them an excellent choice for application like structural monitoring, health monitoring, environmental monitoring etc. Some of these applications need real time data while the rest are tolerant to delay A number of approaches have been presented in the past that enable data collection within sensor networks. The initial methods used direct communication with the sink when sink is in range or a multi hop strategy to deliver the data to the sink These techniques are not smart, hence resulting in either non uniform energy depletion of nodes near the sink or faster energy depletion of all the nodes due to direct communication 18 La t e r  m eth o d s p r o p o s ed t h e u s e o f m o b i l e el em en t s a s  data collectors within sensor network [3, 4  T he s e  approaches are a platform for our proposed approach where we use data mules as data collectors for sensor data. We define context as information that is available in the environment which can be used by the data mule to efficiently collect sensor data. To enable cost efficient data collection, we harvest the use of existing mobility within the environment hence forming a 3 layer intelligent heterogeneous network [14 w it h l ay e r 1  comprising sensor networks, layer 2 comprising mobile data collectors like personal digital assistants, mobile phones laptops etc. and layer 3 comprising the backbone network as illustrated in figure 1. The layer 2 mobile data collectors of our intelligent heterogeneous network are context aware and hence we term them context aware mobile data mules CADAMULE In this paper, we extend Context Spaces theory [19, 20, 21  which models context based on spatial metaphors. The context spaces approach models context and situation and reasons about context under uncertainty. Our approach proposes discovering context attributes at runtime to achieve efficient data collection. We also propose a cost formula based on existing and newly discovered context information. The idea of using existing mobility to achieve sensor data collection brings along a number of challenges including negotiation, mobile node selection, paying for resources, power-aware communication protocols and cost efficient data collection            Fi g 1.  Intelli g ent Hetero g eneous Network 


The cost here is not an elementary value but comprises a number of components. The cost involves cost in data collection, cost in data delivery, energy and power cost involved during collection and delivery etc. Our cost here can also be defined as context attributes for a specific data collection situation with each attribute having a range of values and a specific value at time T. To arrive at a cost based solution, we argue that working on a predefined set of cost attributes is just not sufficient. Discovering new attributes will have a major influence on the computed cost in a specific situation. We present our approach of discovering context at runtime as a solution to the above challenges on which, various power aware communication protocols, cost negotiation protocols can be developed The structure of the paper is as follows: Section 2 looks at previous work in this area and presents our approach identifying the novelty in our approach. Section 3 presents a broad overview of our proposal in using context aware mobile devices as data collectors. In Section 4 we present our theory behind extending context spaces approach. In section 5 we map our context spaces approach to sensor data collection and present a simulation to validate our approach. Section 6 concludes the paper II  S ENSOR D ATA C OLLECTION 226  A N O VERVIEW  Sensor data collection is one of the major issues in sensor network. The sensor network is a data centric network comprising distributed sites of data produced by sensor nodes 2  T h e k ey  c h al le n g e is to min i mi ze th e e n e r g y  s p e n t w h ile  transmitting sensor data back to the sink. Data collection techniques can be broadly classified into two major types 225 Static nodes based data collection 225 Mobile elements based data collection The use of mobile element to collect sensor data has been proposed in recent years. Our approach is to use context aware mobile data collectors to enable data collection. Hence we don\222t investigate too much into static node based data collection. The idea of using mobility within sensor network to collect data from sensor nodes has been discussed by a number of researchers [3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 T h e u s e o f m o b ilit y to  improve performance in Ad-Hoc networks has been proposed in ZebraNet project n d M a na t e e pr o j e c t 3 T h e  introduction of mobile elements explicitly into environment might sometime increase the system overheads. But this increase in cost is marginal when compared to the benefits obtained by the increase in the lifetime of the network Mobility based data collection can be classified primarily as 225 Random mobility 225 Predictable mobility 225 Controlled mobility In random mobility [10, 3 223 d a t a mu le s 224 t h at mo v e randomly collect data e.g. humans, animals. In predictable mobility, mobile elements with predictable movements are used to collect data e.g. nodes mounted on buses In  controlled mobility, the movement of the mobile element is controlled by the user [5, 4, 12   Shah et al. [3  an d S u s h an t et a l  1 3  p r es en t d a ta mu l es th at make use of random mobility. They present data mule based three layer architecture that works in a 2D plane where the first layer comprises the sensor nodes, second layer comprises mobile elements in the environment as data mules that collect data from the sensor nodes and the third layer comprises the data sinks. The issue with this approach is that the data mule needs to be equipped with special receivers that enable them to talk to the nodes. This idea uses random mobility and hence data delivery is not guaranteed. Also there is not much work on context awareness when using random mobility to achieve data collection. The Mule\222s presented are independent of each other and do not exchange data among themselves Chakrabarthi et al. [11 pr op os e s a n o ve l  w a y o f u s i n g predictable mobility to collect data from sensor networks that are distributed over an area. In his proposal, an observer that collects the data from the sensor nodes is mounted on top of a shuttle bus that collects the data from the sensor nodes that are distributed along the path of the shuttle bus. With this approach too, the route of the bus is known before hand and hence not much context for changing environments. Again this approach does not consider context and does not decide on if the data collector is the best to collect the data or not. It also depends on pre known sensor node locations and fixed time intervals and does not work in discover, negotiate and transmit approach as our proposal does Kansal et al. [4, 12 p r e s e n ts c o n t r o lle d mo b ility f o r d at a  collection in sensor networks. Kansal et al uses mobile robots that move in along specified path around the wireless sensor network vicinity collecting data. The implementation makes use of Packbot a specially designed unmanned ground vehicle that can be controlled from a central location. The robot is equipped with transceiver that can talk to mica motes. Packbot communicates using 802.11 interfaces. The Simple Interface for Robots \(SIR\ is used to send simple commands to the Packbot to move it from one location to another. SIR is currently implemented on Linux and TinyOS. With this implementation, the path of the robot is fixed and is controlled by the user. Also the approach requires prior knowledge of the location in which the robot moves Our approach differs from existing approaches as CADAMULE works in a dynamic fashion discovering nodes on the run and hence does not require pre-fetched information about sensor node location. The discovery, negotiation and management of node are all performed at run time and a cost formula based on context information is used to decide on data collection. Some of the key contributions of this paper include the extension of Context Spaces theory by incorporating context discovery at run time hence increasing the confidence while reasoning under uncertainty and a cost formula based on our context spaces extension used to compute the confidence and cost involved in collecting and delivering data from the sensor node to the sink. For our implementations in [14   w e 


  Fig. 3.  Context \226 Situation Pyramid  have been working with a Bluetooth based sensor node the MULLE sensor node [15 de v e l o pe d a t E IS L a b s  S w e d e n   The Mulle is an IP based sensor node that uses Bluetooth as its communication channel III  M OTIVATION  The motivation to our approach is the existence of billions of mobile devices with huge amount of spare capacity that can be used to form an access network. A survey conducted over three days at info security 2006 at Londo   r e s ul t e d i n di s c o ve r y  of more than 2000 Bluetooth enabled devices in visible mode Almost 90% of these devices that use Bluetooth were mobile phones and smart phones [17  O u r p r o p o s a l ex p l o r es th e u s ag e of context aware mobile device namely context aware data mules as a shared access network that can act as data carriers for the sensor data. To reduce the energy required for the sensor to communicate with the sink directly, we use context aware data mules to deliver data to the sink. Since almost every mobile device is equipped with Bluetooth, we look into the possibility of using mobile devices to communicate with sensor nodes over Bluetooth when they are in the surrounding environment. This solution is more practical due to the wide acceptance of Bluetooth standards in mobile technology but is not limited to just Bluetooth. Our proposal can be adapted to any evolving communication standards e.g. ZigBee [26  Figure 2 gives a broad overview of our idea IV  D YNAMIC C ONTEXT D ISCOVERY 226  A  H EURISTIC A PPROACH  In our previous work [14  w e h a ve p r op os e d a s ys t e m  framework for the context aware data mule. We used MULLE sensor node [15 o pr e s e n t  a p r o of  of c o n c e pt  implementation. In this paper we present the context model based on which we enhance our cost formula making it more complex and dynamic. The context model proposed in this paper is an extension of context spaces theory [19, 20   The term context does not have a single definition, but in general refers to a particular centre of interest, providing added information about whom, where and when. We define context as a representation scheme for information that can be used for reasoning about situations. By context, we try to define relation between data available from various sources \(e.g. sensors devices, people etc.\ and reason specific situations based on obtained data. We use the context pyramid presented in figure 3 to pictorially represent our interpretation of context [24  Here sensor data is raw data that gets related based on specific situations occurring within the system context             Context spaces look at representing context using a spatial metaphor considering context as a multi-dimensional space Each attribute defined within a situation\222s context will take a specific dimension to the context model. Padovitz et. al [18 19, 20  h a s p r o p o s ed  c o n t ex t al g eb r a u s ed t o p er f o r m co m p l ex  context operations over situation spaces. Context Spaces theory defines the following on which it reasons and models a specific situation Application Space It is defined as a tuple which represents the all the possible values of context attribute associated with a specific application denoted by R Context Attribute An attribute that is used in the process of reasoning denoted by a i  Context State A set of context attributes related to a specific context at time T denoted by C s t a 1 t a 2 t 205 a n t  Situation Space Represents a real time situation which consists of a list of attributes corresponding to the specific situation S t A 1 j  A 2 j 205 a n j  Context spaces theory uses probabilistic reasoning approach to reasons a specific situation hence arriving at a probabilistic confidence value. This confidence values increases or decreases the occurrence of a specific situation. Context spaces works on known attributes that correspond to a specific situation. We argue that this is not always enough to reason a specific situation. For e.g. to decide if a current event in a smart room is a presentation or a group discussion predefined context attributes like projector status, noise level and light levels may not be enough to arrive at a high confidence level                   Fig. 2.  Overview of using context aware mobile phones as data carriers for sensor nodes  


Hence we propose discovering related context at runtime as a solution to increase the confidence level while reasoning under uncertainty. These context attribute will alter the context model by adding a new dimension to the existing model. These attributes are defined in the application space and exists in the context state but need not be necessarily defined in the current situation space. We try to reason that, by discovering such attributes and their relation to the existing situation at time T computing their weights and utility to the current situation space, we can increase/ decrease our confidence in a specific situation. By utility value, we represent the importance of a newly discovered context attribute to the existing situation. To achieve this, we define a few new operations on top of the ones proposed in Context Spaces theory Definition: Discover Function to dynamically discover context attributes. For this we use a heuristic approach to discover additional context attributes by looking at related situation spaces, history and situation related events Definition: Relevance Relevance function looks at finding a relation between the context attribute and the specific situation. It associates weights and utility factor to a attribute based on current situation  Once we discover these new attributes, we re-compute the weights, utility value and the overall confidence value for the situation. Based on increasing/ decreasing confidence levels we diverge looking at more related context attributes till the confidence value reaches a threshold that is good enough to conclude the occurrence of the situation A  Discovering Context Attributes  Discovering context attributes at run time is a challenging task. We are proposing a heuristic approach by constructing a graph based on recent events \(history\ relating to the current situation and trying to reason the relationship of each of this attribute to the existing situation. Hence to achieve dynamic context discovery, we redefine the situation space as a set of attributes that are distinguished as primary \(a p and secondary a s attributes. We also define a new context attribute type namely dynamic context attribute which is a subset of the context attributes defined in the application space Definition: Situation Space A situation space consists of a set of core attributes a secondary set of attributes which help in discovering new attributes. Hence S = {a p1 t a p2 t a p3 t 205a pn t U {a s1 t a s2 t a s3 t  205a sn t  Definition: Dynamic Attribute A dynamic context attribute d i belongs to a i and is defined in the application space  We define d i to explicitly state a dynamic attribute. d i is defined in the application space but need not necessarily be a part of the context state and the situation space  Hence our situation space will now be a union of pre-defined primary and secondary attributed with a set of newly discovered dynamic attributes S t a p1 t a p2 t a p3 t 205a pn t U {a s1 t a s2 t a s3 t 205a sn t U {d 1 t d 2  t d 3 t 205d n t  To discover these new attributes, we construct a graph that does a heuristic search into various related situations in the application space. It also looks into event history that relates to the specific situation or situations similar to the one being reasoned. For e.g. if we are trying to reason a type of sickness a person has based on the symptoms and we arrive on two possible reasoning namely common cold or flu, we can look into user\222s recent activities in the past and try to find a relation between any medical related attributes to current situation we are trying to reason \(a recent visit to a area which had a predominant flu influence\. We construct a graph to represent this heuristic search with the following components depicted in figure 4 To illustrate the graph construction, let\222s consider a simple example. We reason the occurrence of a meeting / presentation in a smart room. We assume the smart room is equipped with sensors that can provide the system with various context values. Context Spaces takes into consideration incorrect sensor readings [21  Th e s i t u at i o n s p a ces a r e r e p r es en t e d a s S 1  meeting and presentation S2. The primary attributes and secondary attributes are defined as below Context Attribute Meeting Presentation Lights primary primary Projector primary primary Noise primary primary Personal Devices 226 In the room secondary secondary Users secondary secondary Table1: Primary and Secondary attributes for situations meeting and presentation In a typical meeting situation, lights are on while in a presentation situation we assume dimmer light. But this might not be true always. Also situations could be contained in each other i.e. the occurrence of a meeting within a presentation Hence to increase our confidence in the situation, we can look at discovering new context that will increase our confidence in  Primary Node Attribute  Computed Value  Strongly Related  Weekly Related  Compare  Related Attribute  Fig. 4.  Components of the dynamic generated context attribute relation Graph 


a situation. This new context discovery will be within the specific application domain and will not do an entire brute force search on the all application spaces. Hence branching from the secondary nodes, we try to discover related context based on our heuristic search approach. We assume that all context attributes, situations and recent events are present in the application space based on which we build our graph as shown in figure 5 We propose an algorithm presented in figure 6 that is used to compute the above graph. The algorithm iterates through related situation spaces and recent events into history that fall in the same application space identifying attributes and computing weight, utility value \(relevance\ and the overall confidence value. At each stage, based on the confidence value, it goes further discovering more attributes if computed confidence is not enough We now present the same example with some real values and analyze how the discovery of new context attributes can increase our confidence in a specific situation. Table 2 shows the primary attributes and their values for the specific situation We first present the example computing the confidence value without taking into consideration secondary and dynamically discovered attributes. We define, for each attribute, the possible range of values and the reliability of the value. When we say reliability, we do take into consideration data obtained from in accurate sensors  Context Attributes Domain of Values Reliability Error of Reading Light Status ON, DIM OFF 80 Noise Level 1   1 Projector Status ON, OFF 90  Table. 2.  Context attributes and values for a specific situation  Table 3 presents the range of values associated with attribute situation along with their weights. In context spaces theory, the weights and range of values for each context attribute is assumed to have been defined in the application space  Situation Context Attribute Range of Values Weight Presentation 1 = Light DIM, OFF 0.4  2 = Noise 1 \226 4 0.2  3 = Project ON 0.4 Study 1 = Light ON 0.4  2 = Noise 1 \226 2 0.2  3 = Project OFF 0.4 Table 3: Value ranges of context attributes to a specific situation  Hence computing the confidence value C v for each situation, using the approach defined in Context Space [19, 2 Confidence Value C v Presentation\= 0.4 * 0.80 + 0.2 * 1 0.4 * 0 .90 = 0.88 Confidence Value C v Study\ 0.4 * 0.80 + 0.2 * 1 + 0.4 * 0 0.52 If we have our confidence level to reason a situation to be 90%, the above result is not completely enough to prove the occurrence of the situation. Hence we look at discovering new attributes using our proposed approach which will help us increase our confidence in a situation. We consider the same example and include the dynamically discovered attributes that was presented in figure 4. Based on this, table 4 presents the new set of primary, secondary and dynamic attributes Context Attribute Range of Values 1 = Light DIM, OFF 2 = Noise 1 - 4 3 = Project ON Devices Context Object A Users Users in presentation Context Object B Calendar Dynamic User Calendar information Location Dynamic Location information Table 4: Newly discovered context attributes The context object A, B represents another context object which is a part of this situation. The context object has a set of  Step 1: Determine existing situation\222s context attributes a pn T   a sn T  Step 2: Look into R Identify d n t  002 such that d n t 001 R  Step 3:Identify a relation 003 C s t and d n t belongs to  S t  Step 4: Compute the weights w i  for d n t  and the utility value \(using relevance function u i  Step 5: Compute confidence value C v Step 6: if C s specified confidence value for situation  Repeat steps 2 to 6 Step 7: End Fig. 6.  Algorithm identifying dynamic context and re-computing the confidence value User - A  Device - PDA Calendar Location Location   Fig. 5.  Graph constructed by discovering new context attributes and their relation to the situation dynamically  0.83 0.83 0.93 0.93 


attributes defined for the specific situation rather than a single defined attribute. We re-compute our confidence value based on re-distributed weights and utility vales, for the newly discovered context attribute as presented in table 5  Situation Context Attribute Weight Presentation 1 = Light 0.3  2 = Noise 0.1  3 = Project 0.3 User Object Device Object Calendar 0.1 Location 0.2 Study 1 = Light 0.3  2 = Noise 0.1  3 = Project 0.3 User Object Device Object Calendar 0.1 Location 0.2 Table. 5: Newly computed context attributes with their weights  Confidence Value C v Presentation\.3 * 0.80 + 0.1 * 1 0.3 * 1 + 0.1 * 0.90 + 0.2 * 1 = 0.93 Confidence Value C v Study\ 0.3 * 0.80 + 0.1 * 1 + 0.3 * 0 0.1 * 0.90 + 0.2 * 0 = 0.43 From the above results, we prove that the discovery of additional attributes and re-computation of weights, and their utility factor to the situation would indeed increase our confidence in a situation. We use this extended context spaces theory as a basis for our context aware mobile devices which use existing context and dynamically discovered context to compute a cost formula to make data collection decisions Having presented an extension to context spaces theory, we now focus on how this can be applied for sensor data collection using mobile devices. The challenges involved in discovery and data delivery to the sink are out of scope of this paper. In the next section, we will map the context model theory to our approach and compute a cost formula based on situational context V  S ENSOR D ATA C OLLECTION U SING CADAM ULE  In the previous section, we presented the extension to Context Spaces that we map on to our proposed CADAMULE approach in this section. The idea of using context aware data mules explores an intelligent and smart way of data collection in sensor networks. These intelligent devices can act by themselves in a pervasive environment and can discover negotiate, collect and deliver sensor data to the sink. This smart approach bypasses the use of static sinks or relaying data across existing sensor nodes. For negotiation, we need a power aware protocol that needs to take into consideration the energy constraints of both sensor node and the mobile device. Our aim is to conserve energy on the sensor node hence extending the life time of the sensor node. As discussed in our previous paper 14 t h e  n e g o tia tio n b e tw ee n t h e mo b ile d e v i ce an d t h e s e n s o r  node take place over Bluetooth since we are using a Bluetooth based sensor node. Bonnet et al. [22  ha s  re p o rt e d a f e w  advantages and disadvantages of Bluetooth. We are interested in one disadvantage namely the increase in power consumption while trying to keep connections alive for a long time. We try to focus on this issue and present our context aware approach that can reduce Bluetooth power consumption on the node during communication by choosing mobile devices that are close to the sensor node which will be the most energy efficient \(less distance, hence higher throughput hence lower power consumption and lesser time for communication\. For our implementation, we use the Mulle sensor node [15, 16 as  the sensor network platform. In this paper, we present our result as simulation that simulates the Mulle making use of real world power values obtained from the Mulle v2 sensor as tabulated in table 6. The Mulle is powered by a 3.7 volt 2250 mAh Lithium battery  Mode Power MCU 10.0 MHz, BT off 25.1 mW MCU sleep, BT active 132.9 mW MCU sleep, BT sniff 210 slots 27.8 mW Table 6: Mulle Power Consumption  We propose our cost formula that is used to compute the cost involved in transmitting data from the sensor node to the context aware data mule and finally to the sink. Our cost formula presented in the paper focuses on the cost involved for negotiation and transferring data from sensor node to CADAMULE. The contributing parameters to the cost formula and their weights and relevance value are dynamically generated at runtime based on the situation\222s context. We define our cost formula as  Total Energy =Ef\(Sending/Receiving\(Xbits\,d\ + Encon* NR Ecpu + ContextFunction Cf\( S{\(a 1 a 2 a n U \( d 1 d 2 205 d n  Where Cf \(S {\(a 1 a 2 205a n U \(d 1 d 2 d n  M Fn w i r i S S a 1 a 2 205a n d 1 d 2 205d n  004 R{A 1 A 2 205 A n  i=0 Ecpu - Energy spent on processing Ef\(Sending/Receiving\(Xbits\,d\ - Energy function computing the energy spent by transmitting or receiving Xbits over distance d Encon - Total energy to make a connection NR - number of Reconnections w i r i  A weight/ factor that determines the importance of a attribute to a specified context situation given by value 0,1  The dynamic attribute that can be discovered at runtime would include a whole lot of attributes which are derived from 


the primary and secondary attributes. E.g. in the simulation, we derive the attribute distance from the secondary attribute location to estimate the distance between the sensor and CADAMULE. This primary, secondary and discovered context attributes change based on situations hence requiring recomputation of the cost formula Based on our developed cost formula and additional context discovery model, we present a simulation result in which we compute the confidence value needed by CADAMULE to decide on data collection. We also compute the energy spent by the sensor node by comparing our approach with tradition fixed sink based approach. We run our simulation based on the real Mulle sensor node by simulating its sleep, idle, listening Bluetooth search and transmit state. We also assume that the Bluetooth sensor node can control the power it spends by limiting its visibility range hence making it less visible but more energy efficient. We simulate this feature and would like to implement this on the Mulle as a part of our future work This simulated Mulle sensor node adapts its power output based on context information. Our power values are simulated based on real world values obtained from the Mulle V2 sensor node presented in this section. We run our simulation based on the following context attributes  Attribute Type Signal Strength Primary Battery power  \(on sensor node and mobile device Primary Attenuation Primary Location, Calendar Secondary Table 7: Primary and Secondary attributes for context aware mobile device based data collection  The simulation has been developed using Microsoft.net. We assume that data to the sink is delivered by using existing mobile access network like GPRS or GSM based services Each simulation run lasts for 3 minutes during which each sensor node changes its state from sleep, idle and listening transmitting data every 30 seconds. We simulate the fixed sink based approach using traditional Bluetooth discover, establish connection and transmit states with the nodes waking up in the same interval as the simulation using CADAMULE. The simulation is to primarily validate our theory of discovery of context attributes at runtime and how this can improve the overall efficiency of the system and to validate our cost formula which is based on our runtime context discovery theory. In our context aware approach, we compute the energy spent by the sensor node as a function of size of data, time taken to transfer the data, distance and retransmissions due to weak signals. We use a fixed value of 7.4 Watts as the overall power supplied by the battery equipped with the Bluetooth sensor node. We are not looking at the battery power consumed by any sensor mounted as this will have a huge influence in the results. E.g. GPS based sensors require more battery power and also would communicate more frequently updating location information The simulation results are shown in figure 7 and 8 showing some screen dumps of the simulations and a graph plotting the amount of energy spent by each node. We can see that the use of CADAMULE for data collection conserves energy to a fair extent when compared to a fixed sink based approach   Fig. 7.  Simulation Results obtained by including dynamic context attribute for cost calculation during data collection   Simulated Power Consumption with Fixed Sink 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 12 345 678910 Simulation Run Power \(Watt Sensor 1 Sensor 2 Sensor 3  


 Simulated Power Consumption Results Context Aware Data Mule Approach 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 12 345 678910 Simulation Run Power in \(Watt Sensor 1 Sensor 2 Sensor 3  Fig. 8.  Simulation Results of power consumed with fixed sink and context aware Data Mules approach VI  C ONCLUSION  The paper has presented the use of context aware mobile data mules \(CADAMULES\ as data collectors to achieve efficient data collection within a sensor network infrastructure The use of mobility for data collection is not a new approach but our proposal presents a context aware approach aiming at improving the data collection efficiency. The paper has extended the Context Spaces theory by dynamically discovering context at runtime. By using dynamic discovery of context while reasoning under uncertainty, the system can increase the confidence in the occurrence of a specific situation. We have proposed an algorithm that uses graph theory and a heuristic search to identify new context attributes that are related to the existing situation which aids in our reasoning process The paper has also presented our incorporation of the context model with dynamic discovery of context attribute into our proposed CADAMULE approach helping the mule to arrive at intelligent and smart data collection decisions. The cost formula computed from dynamic context discovery aids in arriving at cost efficient data collection. We have validated our extended context spaces theory by showing how our approach of context discovery at run time increases the confidence during reasoning process. We have also evaluated our CADAMULE approach by a simulation which uses the extended context spaces approach as a foundation to developing our dynamic cost formula. The simulation results have shown the performance gain in power consumed by the Mulle sensor node using our smart CADAMULE approach R EFERENCES  1   Y D a vi d C u l l er  D e b or a h E s t r i n Ma ni B  Sr i va s t a va  O v er vi e w  o f  s e n s or  networks, IEEE Computer, 2004, vol 37, Pages\(s\:41-49 2   C h i e nC h ung S h e n  C h av al i t  S r i s at h a po r n ph at  a n d C h ai po r n J a i k aeo   Sensor information networking architecture and applications. IEEE Personal Communications, 2001, Page\(s\: 52-59 3   R  S h ah  S  R o y   S  J a i n  W  B r une t t e   D at a M U L E s  M o d e l i n g a T h r eetier Architecture for Sparse Sensor Networks", IEEE SNPA Workshop May 2003 4   K   A m a n   A  S   A r u n   D  J  D a vi d B  S  Ma ni  a nd E  D e bor a h   Intelligent fluid infrastructure for embedded networks," in Proceedings of the 2nd international conference on Mobile systems, applications, and services. Boston, MA, USA: ACM Press, 2004 5  D a v i d J e a   A r un Som a s und ar a M a n i  S r i v a s t a v a  223M ul t i pl e C o nt r o l l e d  Mobile Elements \(Data Mules\ for Data Collection in Sensor Networks\224 International Conference on Distributed Computing in Sensor Systems 2005 6  L a M a rc a  A    B r u n e t t e   W   Ko i z u m i   D   L e a s e  M   S i g u rd sso n  S  B   Sikorski, K., Fox, D., and Borriello, G. Making Sensor Networks Practical with Robots. In Proceedings of the First international Conference on Pervasive Computing, 2002, Page\(s\: 152-166 7   Sha s hi dha r R  G a n dha m   M D a w a nd e  R a vi  Pr a k a s h a n d S   V e nk a t es a n  Energy-Efficient Schemes for Wireless Sensor Networks with Multiple Mobile Base Stations. Proceedings of IEEE Globecom, December 2003 8   V i n c z e Z V a s s D  V i d a R  V i d 341 c s  A a n d T e l c s  A  A d a p t i v e  s i n k  mobility in event-driven multi-hop wireless sensor networks. In Proceedings of the First international Conference on integrated internet Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks, 2005 9   T ong L   Q  Z ha o  a nd S A di r ed d y S e n s or n e t w or k s w i t h m o bi l e  agents," Proc. Of IEEE MILCOM'03, 2003 10   R e n B  Ma J a n d C h e n C T h e h y b r i d m o b i l e  w i r e l e s s  s e n s o r  networks for data gathering. In Proceeding of the international Conference on Communications and Mobile Computing, 2006 1   A  C h akr a b a r t i  A   S a b h ar w a l   B  A azh ang  U s i n g P r e d i c t a b l e  O b s e r v e r  Mobility for Power Efficient Design of Sensor Networks, Information Processing in Sensor Networks, 2003 12  A   A  S o m a s u n d a r a  A K a n s a l  D D Je a  D E st r i n  a n d M  B   Srivastava, "Controllably Mobile Infrastructure for Low Energy Embedded Networks," Mobile Computing, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 5 pp. 958-973, 2006 13  J  S u s h a n t  C  S  Ra h u l  B  Wa y l o n  B  G a e t a n o  a n d R  S u m it  Exploiting mobility for energy efficient data collection in wireless sensor networks," Mob. Netw. Appl., vol. 11, pp. 327-339, 2006 14  J a ya r a m a n   P P  Z a s l a v s k y  A  D e l s i n g J   S en s or D a t a C o l l e c t i on  U s i ng  Heterogeneous Mobile Devices," Pervasive Services, IEEE International Conference on , vol., no., pp.161-164, 15-20 July 2007 15  J Jo h a n sso n   M   V\250o l k e r J E l i a sso n   373 A. \250 Ostmark, P. Lindgren, and J Delsing., \223Mulle: A minimal sensor networking device - implementation and manufacturing challenges,\224 in IMAPS Nordic 2004, pp. 265\226271 2004 16  326s t m a r k  A  J e n s  E l i a sso n  P e r L i n d g r e n   A a rt v a n Ha l t e r e n  L i a n n e  Meppelink, An Infrastructure for Service Oriented Sensor Networks JOURNAL OF COMPUTERS, VOL. 1, NO. 5, AUGUST 2006 1  A l ex ande r G o s t ev  B l ue t o o t h   L o nd on 2006  http://www.viruslist.com/en/analysis?pubid=188833782, 2006 18   A A  So m a s u n d a r a  A d i t ya R a m a m o o r t hy  Ma ni  B  Sr i v a s t a va  Mo bi l e  Element Scheduling for Efficient Data Collection in Wireless Sensor Networks with Dynamic Deadlines. RTSS 2004: 296-305 19   Pa d o v i t z  A  Lo k e  S.W a n d Za s l a v s k y  A T o w a r d s a T h e o r y o f  Context Spaces , in C Das and M Kumar \(eds\, Proceedings of the Second IEEE Annual Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications Workshop, Orlando, Florida, 14 - 17 March 2004, IEEE Computer Society, USA, ISBN: 0769521061, pp 38-42    P a do vi t z A   L o k e S  W    Z a s l a vs ky A    B ur g B   V e r i f i c a t i on of  Uncertain Context Based on a Theory of Context Spaces, accepted for publication in International Journal of Pervasive Computing and Communications \(JPCC\, Troubador Publishing, 2006 21   Pa d o v i t z A L o k e  S. W Za s l a v s k y  A B u r g B a n d B a r t o l i n i C   A n  approach to Data Fusion for Context-Awareness, in A. Dey, B. Kokinov D. Leake, R. Turner \(eds.\ Fifth International Conference on Modelling and Using Context \(CONTEXT\ , Paris, France, July 2005, SpringerVerlag, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence \(LNAI\ 3554, pp. 353 \226 367 22  P. B o n n e t  A B e a u f o u r  M B  D y d e n s b o r g a n d M L e o p o l d   223Bluetooth-based sensor networks,\224 SIGMOD Rec., vol. 32  no. 4, pp. 35\22640, 2003 23 J u a n g  P O k i H  Wa n g Y  Ma r t o n o s i  M P e h  L S a n d R u b e n s t e i n   D. 2002. Energy-efficient computing for wildlife tracking: design tradeoffs and early experiences with ZebraNet. SIGPLAN Not. 37, 10 Oct. 2002 24  Z a s l a v s k y\222 s  A  223 C o nt e x t E x pl or e r s 224   http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/%7Eazaslavs/contextexplorers/, 2005 2 B r ez i l l on P P a s q ui e r L a n d Pom e r o l  C h ar l e s J  223R e a s o ni ng  w i t h  contextual graphs\224, European Journal of Operational Research, 2002, vol 136, issue 2, pages 290-298 26  Z i g B e e A l l i a n c e  h t t p    www z i g b e e  o r g  e n  i n d e x  a s p   January 2007 


Honor Powrie is a Technology Manager at GE Aviation Information Systems specializing in the application of electrostatic sensors for condition monitoring She has a wide interest in condition monitoring practices including the fusion of multiple data sets to improve fault diagnosis and prognosis Honor holds a BSc in Physics and a PhD in Aeronautical Engineering 9 


for the Rock Abrasion Tool RAT and science support for Mission Operations on the Mars 03 mission Currently Dr Anderson is the Investigation Scientist for the Sample Acquistion  Sample Processing and Handling subsystem on the Mars Science Laboratory He works closely with the FIDO rover team and is presently the Science Team lead on the Onboard Autonomous Science Investigation System OASIS project Dr Anderson's research is centered on unraveling the geologic history of Mars Brian Bue a Research Programmer in the Machine Learning and Instrument Autonomy group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory he is now working on his Ph.D in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Rice University He received his M.S in Computer Science at Purdue University and a B.S in Computer Science and a B.A in Mathematics from Augsburg College in Minneapolis MN His research interests include knowledge-based vision and image processing machine learning pattern recognition scientific visualization remote sensing and applications in planetary science andphysics Michele Judd P.E OASIS Research Manager and senior technical staff member of JPL's Science Division Ms Judd received her B.S in Petroleum Engineering from Stanford University and her M.L.A from Southern Methodist University She has been the Technical Task Manager of the QuakeSim Project and the SERVOGrid Project She has twice chaired the JPL Research and Technology Development Poster Session A nationally certified Quality Manager and licensed Professional Engineer Ms Judd has over 20 years of experience in project management both within JPL andfor Mobil Oil 11 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


 12 7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This research task started with an all-FORTRAN implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm converted it to C code, and developed a number of H W/SW systems on the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA The execution ti me of the all software C implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm was recorded and used for comparison as a base case Two software-based optimizations were applied that reduced the executi on time by more than 4.5x These included modifying the cod e to use all single-precision math library functions no n-ANSI when dealing with single-precision data and utilizi ng the IBM Performance Libraries  Perflib  to improve the speed of all single and double-precision arithmetic The idea of using a DP-only Perflib was introduced and then used in conjunction with the single-precision APU-FPU to fu rther improve system performance The bulk of the research dealt with looking into ha rdwarebased improvements to the FTIR spectrometry system  These included the Xilinx APU-FPU, and a single-pre cision dot-product co-processor The APU-FPU delivered significant speedup for all single-precision floati ng-point operations The dot-product co-processor although ineffective in the FTIR spectrometry system due to poor spatial locality of the data, showed nearly a 2x im provement over the APU-FPU when working with smaller, sequent ially accessed data sets Furthermore it was implemented  as a load/store-based APU-connected FCM thus establishin g a reference for creating similar APU co-processors T he design of a non-system-bused CPU-coupled co-process or is frequently overlooked in design guides yet it is a  very effective way to offload software routines to hardw are implementation The ML410 development board on which all of this w ork was conducted, hosts the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA contain ing two PPC405 processors This research task focused o n optimizing the performance of the FTIR spectrometry  algorithm on a single PPC405 core, however, the des ign can be extended to utilize both available cores. Figure 16 on the following page shows a dual-core design that can be  implemented on the ML410 board The two PPC405 processors each have dedicated PLB interfaces but s hare a common OPB. On the common OPB, the processors need to negotiate access to the RS232 UART and SystemACE CF  controller. This negotiation can be done through du al-ported shared BRAM accessible by each processor from thei r respective PLB. The ML410 board has two external me mory interfaces that are both utilized in this concept PPC405 CPU0 uses the DDR2 DIMM 256 Mbytes while PPC405 CPU1 utilizes the DDR on-board component memory 64  Mbytes\. Each of the processors has some dedicated on-chip memory OCM connected through OCM interface The instruction side OCM is particularly necessary so e ach processor can store its own boot code in its own on chip memory as booting both processors from external mem ory may not be possible Both processors have their own FPUs connected on dedicated FCB interfaces Since the processing of individual interferograms is a comple tely independent task an up to 2x reduction in executio n time may be possible with a dual-core system However o ne bottleneck that may limit the speedup is negotiatin g access to the shared CF card controller Additional improvement to the overall performance o f the FTIR spectrometry system may be possible by rewriti ng the software in C. The automatic conversion from FORTRA N to C using f2c most likely does not produce optimal code, and it is certainly not appealing to read Some functio ns may also need to be rewritten with an optimized pattern  of data access This can help in cases such as the dot-prod uct coprocessor Further performance improvement may be achieved by trying a different compiler one that is specifical ly targeted for the embedded PPC405 processor A V2P performanc e study done at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center concluded that using the WindRiver Diab DCC 5.2 com piler provides a 38 performance increase over the GNU-GC C 3.4 compiler The comparison was based on running a  Dhrystone benchmark application on a 400 MHz PPC405 design The GNU-GCC compiler achieved 458 DMIPS while the WindRiver Diab DCC achieved 628 DMIPS as  reported by Xilinx\ [10   Implementing additional hardware co-processors may result in the further reduction of execution time Using t he dotproduct design as a reference the FFT function fo r example can be implemented in the hardware This w ill help in the spectrum computation component of the s oftware processing. It may be necessary to re-arrange the d ata access pattern for optimal co-processor performance to av oid the pitfall seen when deploying the dot-product core Finally, no embedded processing system is complete without an OS. Linux is a good choice and is supported by X ilinx in EDK It is important to first finalize the hardware  design prior to deploying the OS Support for the APU may be lacking in Linux and getting the OS to recognize th e hardware FPU may be a project in itself For the FTIR spectrometry algorithm this research task started the process of moving from an all software system to a mixed HW/SW implementation on the V4FX60 hybridFPGA In the best case a more than 8x speedup was achieved compared to the FTIR base system This implementation, although nearly 2x faster the V2P s ystem at NASA JPL still lags behind the current state-of-th e-art space processor  the BAE RAD750 However the marg in between the two was narrowed down significantly and with further research as suggested above will most lik ely be eliminated altogether Directly benefiting from the  work presented in this paper is a 3-year JPL technology 


 13 development task that will support the MATMOS on-bo ard processing implementation for a future flight i nstrument   Fig. 16 Dual-core concept targeting ML410 development boar d 


 14 R EFERENCES  1  D L Bekker Hardware and Software Optimization of Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry on HybridFPGAs  MS Thesis Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY August 2007 Available http://hdl.handle.net/1850/4805  2  P J Pingree J.-F L Blavier G C Toon and D  L Bekker An FPGA/SoC Approach to On-Board Data Processing  Enabling New Mars Science with Smart Payloads in IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  Big Sky MT March 2007 Available http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?isnu mber=4 144550&arnumber=4161501  3  S I Feldman D M Gay M W Maimone and N L Schryer, A Fortran-to-C Converter, Computing Scie nce Technical Report 149, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murra y Hill NJ March 22 1995 Available http://www.netlib.org/f2c/f2c.pdf  4  IBM PowerPC Embedded Processor Performance Libraries tech rep IBM Microelectronics Divisi on Hopewell Junction, NY, December 12 2003 5  Virtex-4 Data Sheet: DC and Switching Characterist ics Datasheet DS302 Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 27 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/publications/ds302.pdf  6  ML410 Embedded Development Platform  Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 6 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug085.pdf  7  G Toon J.-F Blavier M McAuley and A Kiely Advanced On-Board Science Data Processing System for a Mars-orbiting FTIR Spectrometer R&TD Task 01STCR  R.05.023.048 NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena, CA, 2005 8  APU Floating-Point Unit v3.0 product specificati on Xilinx Inc San Jose CA January 26 2007 Availa ble http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/ipcenter/data_sheet/ap u_fp u.pdf  9  PowerPC 405 Processor Block Reference Guide Xilinx Inc San Jose CA July 20 2005 Available www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug018.pdf  10  D. Petrick, Analyzing the Xilinx Virtex-II Pro Pow erPC with the Dhrystone Benchmark Applications, tech. r ep NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt Maryland Available http://klabs.org/DEI/Processor/PowerPC/v2pro_ppc_pe rf ormance_petrick.doc  B IOGRAPHY  Dmitriy Bekker has just completed his Masters Degree in Computer Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His areas of interest include FPGAs embedded systems digital signal processing and system architecture. He has coop  internship experience working at Brookhaven National Laboratory Syracuse Research Corporation NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He recen tly won in the 2006 IEEE Student Design Contest for his pro ject in autonomous vehicle navigation. He is a member of IE EE Dr Lukowiak is an assistant professor in the Computer Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His research interests are concentrated in the area of multidisciplinary projects that require modeling and hardware implementations FPGA and ASIC of data processing systems Dr Marcin Lukowi ak obtained his Ph.D in Technical Sciences from the P oznan University of Technology in October 2001 Muhammad Shaaban is an associate professor of computer engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology His research interests include high performance computing processor microarchitecture heterogeneous and reconfigurable computing Shaaban has a PhD in Computer Engineering from the University of Souther n California. He is a senior member of the IEEE Dr. Blavier first joined the JPLMkIV Team in August 1985 as a contractor from Ball Aerospace He participated in the MkIV campaigns in McMurdo Antarctica groundbased and from Punta Arenas Chile NASA DC-8 In late 1987, he started graduate work with Profs Delbouille and Dubois at the University  of Lige Belgium his research tasks included install ing the 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Lige for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Lige in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobs, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathmatiques Appliques de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


