html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">  1 Atmospheric Sounding Simulation Experiment Service  Meemong Lee, Richard Weidner, Kevin Bowman Meemong.Lee@jpl.nasa.gov, Richard.J.Weidner@jpl.nasa.gov, Kevin.W.Bowman@jpl.nasa.gov Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove, Pasadena, CA  91109  Abstract  Remote atmospheric sounding employs a wide range of models for representing the complex physical principles exploited by various measurement techniques refraction, transmission, absorption, scattering, etc retrieving various physical properties \(water vapor temperature profile, wind profile, chemical constituents etc platforms \(satellites, aircrafts, sondes, etc collectively facilitate a comprehensive Observation System Simulation Experiment \(OSSE performance validation, and operation planning. The Sensor-web Operations Explorer \(SOX Propulsion Laboratory has established an atmospheric sounding simulation experiment service that helps scientists plan integrated air quality campaigns and explore future atmospheric science mission and instrument concepts.  The SOX system infuses state-of-the-art information technologies for achieving inter-operability among a wide range of the science community tools and data products, as well as maintaining computational effectiveness of the simulated experiments. This paper presents the SOX system implementation with respect to software architecture concept exploration framework, OSSE framework, and online service.1 2  TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION................................................................. 1 2. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE.................................................. 2 3. PHENOMENA DATABASE................................................... 4 4. EXPLORATION FRAMEWORK........................................... 4 5. OSSE FRAMEWORK......................................................... 6 6. FUTURE DIRECTION ......................................................... 8 REFERENCES ........................................................................ 9 BIOGRAPHY .......................................................................... 9  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1535, Version 3, Updated 2008:1212 1. INTRODUCTION Air pollution is a chemical, physical \(e.g., particulate matter size  s natural characteristics in an unwanted way. Gases such as carbon dioxide, methane, and fluorocarbons \(which contribute to global warming fuel burning have been identified as pollutants Understanding the chemical state and its impact on air quality requires observations of multiple trace gases as well as aerosols and their properties. In addition to the chemistry that relates these gases and aerosols, meteorological processes \(such as convection and transport vertical and horizontal distribution of these gases and aerosols [1 To accurately monitor air quality, an intelligent-observation strategy must be developed that can achieve the necessary temporal, spatial, and spectral coverage and resolution Each observational asset provides its own unique strengths and weaknesses in providing the data necessary to assess the air-quality state. Satellite observations provide global coverage of multiple trace gases. However, these observations may be limited in vertical resolution and frequency of observation. Aircraft and sonde observations can complement the satellite data and provide additional 


can complement the satellite data and provide additional measurement details, but they are limited in spatial and temporal coverage compared to satellite observations [2 The objectives of Sensor-web Operations Explorer \(SOX are two fold. First, create a virtual sensor-web system that can simulate an integrated observation infrastructure composed of space-borne, air-borne, and in-situ sensors Second, develop service frameworks that can perform the prescribed observation scenarios and generate high-fidelity measurements that can support sampling strategy exploration based on comprehensive atmospheric chemistry state modeling. The technical approaches to achieve the above objectives, an observation-system-simulation experiment \(OSSE framework, have been developed as depicted in Figure 1 The OSSE framework allows scientists to verify an observing system design by integrating two modeling activities, forward modeling and inverse modeling. The forward-modeling process transforms an atmospheric state vector into a measurable quantity by an instrument 2  Figure 1  Sensor-web System Overview e.g., radiance The inverse-modeling process retrieves the altitudinal profiles of a specific atmospheric component from the measurements and assimilates them to forecasts/predicts of future atmospheric states.  The exploration framework allows scientists to compose sampling strategies involving multiple observing systems that can be automatically verified in the OSSE framework Section 2 describes the system architecture focusing on the end-to-end atmospheric sounding experiment process Section 3 describes the concept exploration framework with respect to quantitative trade-space formulation and flexible population. Section 4 describes the OSSE framework with respect to measurement-quality and science-impact analysis capabilities.  Section 5 describes software and hardware engineering approaches for implementing the on-line service. Finally, Section 6 summarizes the current capabilities and presents future research areas 2. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE Scientists use the interactive design tools to formulate experiment requests in terms of observation scenario and measurement quality. The requests are submitted to and the experiment results are retrieved from the OSSE framework via the SOX website. As shown in Figure 2, the observation scenario step transforms the atmospheric state-to-signal radiance spectra for the samples in the sample list and stores them in the input signal database. The measurement quality step distorts the input signal spectra simulating the performance property of the instruments in the instrument list and saves them in the measurement database. The retrieval analysis step retrieves the altitudinal profile of a specified atmospheric component from the distorted signal and analyzes the retrieval sensitivity statistics. Finally, the retrieved profiles are assimilated to quantify integrated science impact of a sampling strategy The SOX system implements the above two frameworks and the four-step experiment processes with four software modules: Sensor-web Integrated Planner \(SWIP Web Architecture Model \(SWAM Simulation and Distribution Service \(MSDS Performance Metric Evaluator \(SPME observation-scenario design-space formulation and population in terms of configuring platforms and instruments.  SWAM is for observation-system designspace formulation and population in terms of parametric representation of the performance range of the platforms and instruments. MSDS is for mission simulation and mission data-product synthesis utilizing the platform and 


mission data-product synthesis utilizing the platform and instrument performance parameters defined by SWAM and operation scenarios defined by SWIP. Finally, SPME is for analyzing the sensitivity of the observation system and scenario design with respect to the individual campaign and the integrated campaign 3  Figure 2 Experiment Process Flow   SWIP provides platform-unique observation-scenario design tools. Currently, two types of space-borne observation-scenario design tools are in operation, GEO for geostationary and LEO for low-Earth orbiters. The design tools are implemented on a Windows platform utilizing .net framework and high-end graphics tools so that the sampling strategy can be interactively validated prior to generating the final sample list. The interactive validation capabilities allow a scientist to verify Sun-incidence angle, surface coverage sampling frequency, and other measurementquality-sensitive factors.  The observation-scenario design tools for air-borne and in-situ platform types are under development SWAM provides two types of model integrators, a platform model integrator and an instrument model integrator. The instrument model integrator provides generic instrument subsystem classes for imager, spectrometer, and radiometer and an instrument class. A virtual instrument system can be dynamically configured integrating these three instrument subsystem classes.  The platform model integrator provides generic platform subsystem classes for attitude control navigation, and command and data handling. A virtual platform can be dynamically configured integrating the platform subsystems MSDS provides two types of simulators, an input signalradiance spectrum simulator and a measured-radiance spectrum simulator.  The input-signal radiance spectrum simulator implements XML-based atmospheric state composition and command line interfaces \(CLI legacy-forward model software modules. The on-line simulation services are operated by three software modules a request manager, a resource manager, and an execution manager. The request manager logs exploration requests and translates the requests into command lines. The resource manager monitors the availability of the computational resources and informs the execution manager as a resource becomes available. The execution manager dispatches the command lines to the available resource SPME integrates atmospheric-science analysis tools for retrieval analysis, retrieval-sensitivity analysis, data assimilation, and prediction-accuracy analysis. The integration process provides micro-windowing of measurement data for integrated campaign synthesis dynamically configurable instrument-performance sensitivity analysis, and interactive multi-parameter space visualization. In order to track the progressive nature of the data-assimilation process, animation product-generation tools are also provided  4 3. PHENOMENA DATABASE The major challenge in developing a standard file format is a unified representation of the atmospheric state that can shield the forward modeling process from the various file formats and data structures of phenomena model datasets For each experiment scenario, a phenomena database must be prepared that covers the required temporal and spatial range of the experiment. A phenomena dataset is structured as a four-dimensional array of longitude, latitude, altitude and time per component allowing regional coverage, nonlinear vertical profiling, and daily variation. Figure 3 


linear vertical profiling, and daily variation. Figure 3 illustrates the four dimensional aspect of a CO2 data set with latitudinal \(top center right slices of a specific time step The phenomena database is constructed integrating the datasets form various data assimilation systems, mission data products, and parametric models. The data assimilation systems include Model for Ozone And Related chemical Traces \(MOZART Chemistry \(GEOSCHEM Plasma Atmospheric and Cosmic Dust Twin laboratory IMPACT Resolution Imaging Spectrometer \(MODIS Emission Spectrometer \(TES Sounder \(AIRS Atmospheric Model \(REAM models As shown in Figure 4, the phenomena properties are divided into four areas, physical parameters, trace gases, aerosols and surface reflectance. The physical parameters include temperature, pressure, and humidity. The trace gases parameter includes chemical composition of the atmosphere, which including ozone, methane, nitrogen oxides, and carbon oxides.  The aerosols include black carbon, sea salt, dust, haze, and organic material. The surface reflectance includes land and ocean. The properties of the physical parameters and trace gases parameters are organized in altitudinal layers to allow off-nadir atmospheric path tracing. The properties of the aerosols and surface reflectance are organized in ultraviolet, visible, and infrared regions  For each sample, an atmospheric state vector is composed by tracing the atmospheric path defined by the viewing geometry of the platform at the specified time and location The atmospheric state vector is stored in a binary data file with an XML header that describes the dimensionality phenomena type, phenomena component name, physical unit, and data type. The state vectors for the physical parameters and trace gases represent the altitudinal profile while the optical depth and single-scattering albedo resulting from each aerosol type and the surface reflectance represent the spectral profile. The seasonal variation of the direct reflectance spectrum is modeled based on the data products of the MODIS instrument on the Terra satellite [3 For the ocean surface, the direct and diffused reflectance spectra are simulated employing a parametric model that takes into account chlorophyll density and wind speed [4 The atmospheric state vector is converted to a radiance spectrum utilizing a radiative transfer model \(RTM Linearized Discrete Ordinate Radiative Transfer \(LIDORT or Line By Line RTM \(LBLRTM community-developed software with model-unique input and output format requirements. The RTM-independent atmospheric state representation allows the phenomena model database to be decoupled from the software implementation details of the RTMs [5 4. EXPLORATION FRAMEWORK An important part of the design of complex systems is the evaluation of the large number of potential alternative designs. Automating part of the design-exploration task can be an invaluable help in finding the optimal or near-optimal settings for the design parameters. The choice of the most appropriate exploration strategy depends on the nature of the parameters [6]. The SOX concept exploration framework allows scientists to explore the mission and instrument concepts by parametrically modeling measurement quality and quantity requirements. The measurement quality requirements are mapped to instrument performance parameters that drive the instrument system design. The measurement quantity requirements are mapped to observation scenario parameters that drive platform 


to observation scenario parameters that drive platform configuration and sensor coordination The platform altitude and orbit affect optics design and thermal design. The instrument signal-to-noise ratio \(SNR and spectral range requirements drive the focal-array design, and the spectral linearity requirement drives mechanical design. The inter-subsystem dependencies define the design trade space. For example, focal array thermal structure, and mechanical structure are tightly coupled in providing the required SNR performance. The concept design framework enables a science-driven performance range specification providing a validated design trade space for the observation-system developers The instrument performance-range parameters are divided into three types of properties \(imager, spectrometer, and radiometer i.e., field-ofview \(FOV transformation \(i.e., line shape and line width, linearity and intensity detection \(i.e., efficiency and SNR observation scenario describes when, where, and how the measurement should be acquired. The measurement requirements can be decomposed into platform configuration and instrument configuration. The platform configuration includes orbit parameters and scan-platform settings, while the instrument configuration includes sampling frequency and condition 5   Figure 3 -- 4-D CO2 Dataset Organization    Figure 4  Phenomena Model Database Organization   6 The automated design-space exploration is performed by populating a sample list and an instrument list with the parametric settings that correspond to the desired mission and instrument concepts and evaluating the science impact analysis results from the OSSE framework.  The exploration requests for observation scenario, measurement quality, and retrieval analysis are stored in the request database. The requests are serviced by a set of service modules, a request monitor, a resource monitor, an application launcher, and a status monitor as depicted in Figure 5. There are multiple application dispatchers, one per each application module The request monitor checks the request database for new requests and activates the resource monitor when a new request has been detected. The resource monitor checks the computational resources and activates the application launcher if there are available nodes. The application launcher activates an appropriate application dispatcher depending on the request type An application dispatcher provides three types of functions input file preparation, command line composition, and output file conversion in order to integrate a wide range of legacy  codes and community models. A set of standard services are  also utilized for the SOX website implementation. The SOX employs standard file formats for the requests \(sample list and instrument list results \(signal radiance, measurement data, and retrieved profiles the SOX experiment results on their own OSSE procedures and vice versa 5. OSSE FRAMEWORK The SOX OSSE framework integrates forward modeling and inverse modeling methods to provide a process for measurement simulation and science-return evaluation. The retrieval analysis process is referred to as  inverse 


retrieval analysis process is referred to as  inverse modeling  while the observation simulation is referred to as  forward modeling  depicting the reversal of the input and output relationship between the observation process and the retrieval analysis. The measurement simulation process takes the atmospheric state described in Section 2 as an input Forward Modeling: A forward model is an approximate representation of the measurement physics, which is constructed based on how the measuring device works and how the information is extracted from the measurements The two major forward-modeling components are: 1 radiative transfer function \(which defines the monochromatic radiance emerging from an atmospheric path which defines signal detection sensitivity, distortion, and noise The measurement simulation is performed in multiple stages, each stage applying a specific instrument performance property [7].  First, a bandpass filtering is applied to extract the specified spectral range from the input radiance spectrum. Second, a convolution kernel is formulated based on the line-shape and line-width specification. The convolution kernel is applied to the bandpass-filtered spectrum while observing the specified linearity variation. Third, after the convolved signal radiance is converted to photon counts, the SNR property is simulated by scaling the signal strength and adding the system noise. Finally, the noisy signal is quantized within the specified digital number range Inverse Modeling: The retrieval analysis may be applied to any subset of the atmospheric state. The SOX system focuses on retrieving the trace gases that are relevant to air quality such as ozone, COx, and NOx. The trace-gas density is estimated by applying the inverse averaging kernel to the measurement. The evaluation process involves the following three steps: 1 measurement and the Jacobean radiance; 2 retrieval that computes the averaging kernel, retrieval gain and vertical resolution; and 3 statistics and distribution with respect to the measurement requirement parameters explored [8]. The retrieval accuracy is used to formulate a statistical distribution of the sensitivity of the design parameters such as sampling frequency, spectral resolution, and SNR. The sensitivity analysis provides a quantified design impact on science return, thus allowing science-driven requirements formulation A hardware architecture has been implemented that can handle the complex computational load of the forward and inverse modeling and the dependencies on programming language, operating system, and parallel architecture type As  shown in Figure 6, the hardware architecture is composed of a windows-based website server, a Linuxbased exploration server, a distributed memory system with multiple nodes, a shared memory system with four processors, and a network file system. The hardware architecture unit is optimized for the experiment process so that it can be simply duplicated for serving multiple experiments Figure 7 illustrates the SOX experiment process where the science impact in global air quality assessment is evaluated by assimilating multiple weeks of observations in order to observe the correlation between the observation and the prediction-accuracy improvements. The sensitivity analysis was performed with respect to spatial, temporal, and spectral coverage exploiting the inter-dependencies among chemistry, convection, and transport using a 4-D variational adjoint algorithm [9  7  Figure 5  Exploration Framework 


Figure 5  Exploration Framework   Figure 6  Hardware Architecture  8  Figure 7  Experiment Process   6. FUTURE DIRECTION Processes governing the distribution and evolution of trace gases and aerosols have a profound impact on air quality and climate.  Trace gases and aerosols do not only affect air quality, but they also impact regional and global climate through longer-lived greenhouse gases, e.g., O3, CO2, and CH4   Aerosols can have a net cooling or heating effect depending on their type and vertical distribution. The quantification of these processes requires an integrated approach that combines observations from satellites aircraft, sondes, and surface measurements with chemistry and transport models acting on both regional and global scales. The SOX system is an integrated software infrastructure that combines these observations with models and data-assimilation tools.  This permits a focused analysis of the chemical state that can be adapted to meteorological and chemical  events  over daily time scales Based on the experience from the NASA International Chemical transport Experiment \(INTEX-B targeted-observation mode development will focus on understanding the long-range transport of pollution from Asia to North America.  The 4D-variational adjoint framework will be used to compute sensitivities of certain aspects of model forecasts to observations. These sensitivities allow quantification of the impact of the individual observations and assessment of their value with respect to improving the forecast aspects of interest Possible redundancies between observing systems identified using these sensitivities, will be used for initial optimization. Alternatively, redundancies can be included deliberately in order to design validation strategies for satellite observations. The adjoint tools will be applied to optimize the design of observing systems by calculating those measurement locations that have the maximal information impact    9 ACKNOWLEDGMENT The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the Advanced Information System Technology \(AIST Earth Science Technology Office \(ESTO Aeronautics and Space Administration \(NASA  REFERENCES 1] M. Luo and R. Beer  Simulated Observation of Tropospheric Ozone and CO with the Tropospheric Emission Spectrometer \(TES  J Geophys. Res. 107, D15, 10.1029/2001JD000804, 2002 2]  C.D. Rodgers, Inverse Methods for Atmospheric Sounding: Theory and Practice, World Scientific Publishing, Series on Atmospheric, Oceanic and Planetary Physics, Vol. 2, Singapore, 2000 3]  MODIS data server site http://edcdaac.usgs.gov/dataproducts.asp 4]  A Morel, S. Maritorena  Bio-optical Properties of Oceanic Waters  Journal of Geophysical Research 106 no. C4, 7163  7180, April 15, 2001 


no. C4, 7163  7180, April 15, 2001 5]  S.A. Clough, M.W. Shephard, E.J. Mlawer, J.S Delamere, M.J. Iacono, K. Cady-Pereira, S. Boukabara and P.D. Brown  Atmospheric Radiative Transfer Modeling: a Summary of the AER Codes  JQSRT 91 233  244, 2005 6]  J. Jannek and R. Esser  Higher-Order Modeling and Automated Design-Space Exploration  Proceedings High-Performance Computing \(HPC Computer Simulation, 357-364, January 2002 7]  M. Lee and R.J. Weidner  Virtual Mission Systems for Multi-disciplinary Engineering Design  presented at AIAA SpaceOps-2005, Long Beach, CA, 2005 8]  M. Lee, A. Eldering, C. Miller, and Z. Qu  Earth Science Mission Concept Design System  presented at 2007 IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, MT, 2007 9]  T. Chai, G. R. Carmichael, A. Sandu, Y. Tang, and D.N Daescu  Chemical Data Assimilation of Transport and Chemical Evolution over the Pacific \(TRACE-P Measurements  Journal of Geophysical Research 111 D02301, DOI:10.1029/2005JD005883, 2006  BIOGRAPHY Meemong Lee is a principal engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in the areas of modeling and simulation Her current research activities include model-based collaborative engineering frameworks, sensor-web operation design architecture, and simulation-based measurement requirement formulation.  She is also responsible for mission simulation system development for NASA  s Juno project. She has a bachelor  s degree in electronics engineering from Sogang University in South Korea, a master  s degree in computer science from Oklahoma State University, and a doctoral degree in electrical engineering from Oklahoma State University  Richard J. Weidner is a principal technologist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in the areas of multidisciplinary technology development He led mission simulation and instrument modeling group at JPL during 1998  2006. He has  invented numerous real-time distributed mission simulation systems including SIMP-SASED for Mars Pathfinder  s panorama imaging camera,  Micro-Helm for Mars Odyssey, and MSVNCassini for Cassini-Saturn Orbit Insertion. He is currently developing multi-dimensional phenomena models for Juno mission simulation and Earth atmospheric mission simulation. He has a bachelor  s degree, a master  s degree and a doctoral degree in Electrical Engineering from Oklahoma State University  Kevin W. Bowman received a B.E.E degree in electrical engineering from Auburn University, Auburn, AL, a Diplome de Specialization en Traitement et Transmission des Informations from the Ecole Superieure d  Electricite \(SUPELEC Metz, France, and an M.S. and a Ph.D in electrical  engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, in 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1997 respectively. He has been a Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA, since 1997 


at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA, since 1997 His primary research interests are in the area of atmospheric remote sensing and tropospheric chemistry including inverse modeling and data assimilation from satellite observations, estimation and error analysis of trace gas profiles, and calibration algorithms for infrared Fourier transform spectrometers pre></body></html 


in preferences for a category of items. The selection of segment is done by selecting highly rated popular items with similar characteristics. Segmented attack is focused on those users who have highly rated majority of the selected items present in the segment For example, group of users who have highly rated at least any three of the five most popular animation movies form a segment of users interested in animation movies. An attacker with intent to promote a new animation movie will find it beneficial to mount a segmented attack against a segment of user interested in animation movies In our work, we study the effect of our filler item strategies in further improving the effectiveness of insegment attacks against both user-based and itembased attacks. In segment attack, filler items are randomly selected and assigned the minimum value in the rating scale. The reasoning behind assignment of minimum value to the filler item has not been explained in detail in any of the literature on segmented attack.  We provide below details of our filler item strategies for segment attack  7.1 Strategy SUL  This strategy is followed when a segment attack is mounted against a user-based CF system and the target item falls in TL category. In our approach to improve effectiveness of the attack, we need to create malicious users that are similar to those genuine users who have rated the target item with a lower value and also belong to the segment of users targeted by the segmented attack. So, to improve similarity, a randomly selected filler item is assigned the average rating given to it by those users who have rated any of the items that define the segment and have also rated the target item at a lower scale. For example for an attack against a segment of users interested in animation movies i.e., those users who have rated highly at least any three of the five most popular movies in animation genre, a filler item is assigned the average rating given to it by those users who have rated the target item at a lower rating and have rated highly at least one of the five animation movies that define the segment  7.2 Strategy SUH This strategy is followed when a segment attack is mounted against a user-based CF system and the target item falls in TH category. To improve effectiveness of a segment attack, a randomly selected filler item is assigned the average rating given to it by those users who have rated any of the items that define the segment and have also rated the target item at a higher scale  7.3 Strategy SIL  This strategy is followed when a segment attack is mounted against an item-based CF system and the target item falls in TL category. To improve effectiveness of a segment attack, we select filler items from the set of items which are highly rated by those users who have rated target item at a lower scale. The strategy used is similar to Strategy IL Filler items are selected the way explained in section 6.1  7.4 Strategy SIH  This strategy is followed when a segment attack is mounted against an item-based CF system and the 


target item falls in TH category. To improve effectiveness of a segment attack, we select filler items from the set of items which are highly rated by those users who have rated target item at a higher Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 scale. The strategy used is similar to Strategy IH Filler items are selected the way explained in section 6.2  8. Experimental evaluation and discussion  We performed the experimental evaluation of our strategies on the publicly available MovieLens data set [8]. This is the most widely used dataset in recommender systems research. MovieLens consists of 100,000 ratings made by 943 users on 1682 movies. Each user in the data set has rated at least 20 movies and each movie has been rated at least once A timestamp value is associated with each user movie, and rating combination. The data set also contains information on the demographic detail \(age sex, occupation, and zip code information \(genre and release date The ratings are made in a scale of 1 to 5, where 5 indicate extreme likeness for an item and 1 dislike We evaluated effectiveness of the proposed strategies on user-based and item-based collaborative algorithm. For similarity calculation and prediction in user-based CF algorithm, equations 1 and 2 stated in section 3 were used. Similarly, equations 3 and 4 stated in section 3 were used for computing similarity and prediction value for item-based CF algorithm We used a neighborhood size of k = 20 for prediction calculation. Case amplification value of 10 was used while calculating correlation and only positive correlations values were considered for computing predictions To conduct our evaluation, we selected a sample 20 items. Out of the 20 items, 10 items belonged to TL  category while remaining 10 items to TH category All the 20 items were selected randomly from a larger set of items belonging to each category. We also randomly selected a sample of 50 target users Target users selected were those who have never rated any of the 20 test items. Each of the target items was attacked individually and the prediction shift was calculated by averaging the prediction shift observed for each user. The final prediction shift for the attack is the average prediction over all items used in the test. Equation 6 was used to calculate the metric For implementation of segmented attack we followed the same guidelines as stated in [3]. Horror segment was selected as the target segment. Five of the most popular horror movies were selected to represent the segment. These five movies selected formed the selected item set in the attack profiles constructed. The five movies are Alien, Psycho, The Shining, Jaws, and The Birds. Users who have given a rating of 4 or 5 to at least any 3 of the five movies were identified as the target segment against which the attack was focused. For calculating prediction shift we selected 50 of the users from this target segment to form the test user set. While implementing the segment attack, selected items were given a rating of 5 and the randomly selected filler items were assigned a value 1 All experiments were conducted for ?Size of attack? values 1%, 3%, 6%, 12%, and 15%.  ?Size of attack? represents number of attack profiles added as a percentage of pre-attack profiles. 1% ?Size of attack? implies 10 attack profiles were added to a 


attack? implies 10 attack profiles were added to a system of 1000 genuine users. On the basis of the results reported in [4] that best results are reported when a filler size of 3% is used in an average attack we used a filler size of 3% for all our tests i.e., 3 % of 1682 items which is approximately 50 filler items For attacks against user-based collaborative filtering systems we used six strategies: Strategy UL, Strategy UH, Strategy SUL, Strategy SUH, segment attack and average attack. Similarly, for attacks against item based collaborative filtering systems we used six strategies: Strategy IL, Strategy IH Strategy SIL Strategy SIH, segment attack and average attack. For average attack, filler item strategy used was the same as in an average attack i.e., the mean of the filler item was assigned to it. Segment attack was implemented as explained earlier. Category TL, Category TH Strategy UL, Strategy UH, Strategy IL, Strategy IH Strategy SUL, Strategy SUH, Strategy SIL and Strategy SIH were implemented the way explained earlier in section 4, section 5, section 6 and section 7 respectively. For attacks against item-based CF while selecting filler items from set IF, only items with minimum frequency count of 10 were considered Figure 2 and Figure 3 show the effectiveness of our attacks when calculated for all users against systems using user-based collaborative filtering for recommendations.  Figure 2 shows the prediction shift values of attacks Strategy UL and average attack for items belonging to TL category. From the graph it?s obvious that for items in TL category, Strategy UL outperforms average attack model for all values of attack size. Similarly, Figure 3 shows the prediction shift values for the attack strategies Strategy UH and average attack for items belonging to TH category From the graph it can be concluded that for items belonging to TH category, Strategy UH performs much better than average attack over lower values of attack size. At attack size of 12 % and 15% both attack have similar effectiveness Figure 4 and Figure 5 show the effectiveness of our attacks when calculated for all users against systems using item-based collaborative filtering for recommendations.  Figure 4 shows the prediction shift values of Strategy IL and average attack for Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 items belonging to TL category. Similarly, Figure 5 shows the prediction shift values for the Strategy IH and average attack for items belonging to TH category. From Figure 4 and 5 it can be concluded that both Strategy IL and Strategy IH perform substantially better than average attack over all values of attack size. It can also be observed that our attack strategies are more effective against itembased systems than user-based systems Figure 6, 7, 8, and 9 show the effectiveness of our filler based attack strategies for in-segment users. We observe that for attacks against both user-based and item-based CF systems the effectiveness of our filler based strategies is comparable to the best available attack model for in-segment attacks i.e., segment attack. However, in Figure 8 we observe that filler item strategy SIL performs better than segment attack. Because of the low knowledge cost involved in segment attack, we can conclude that for most scenarios segment attack is a better attack model for in-segment attacks than filler based attack models Experimental results clearly show that our approach of selecting a strategy based on target item rating distribution outperforms the best available attack model i.e., average model. One drawback of 


attack model i.e., average model. One drawback of our attack strategies is its high knowledge cost However, automated software agents can help diminish the cost. One approach that can be used to decrease the cost is to use a subset of users while selecting filler items. For example, in attacks against item-based systems, while implementing Strategy IH instead of selecting all users who have rated target item as 4 or 5 as members of the set UH. , we only select 20 users. Selection of items for set IF will then be performed using the data of the 20 users in set UH Similarly, in case of attacks against user-based systems, while implementing Strategy UH instead of assigning a filler item IF the average rating given to it by the set of users UH. , we assign IF the average rating given to it by a subset of 5 randomly selected users from UH. In future work we plan to experimentally verify the effectiveness of these cost reduction approaches    Figure 2:   Attack on TL category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 3:   Attack on TH   category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 4:   Attack on TL category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8  Figure 5:   Attack on TH category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 6:   Attack on TL category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 7:   Attack on TH   category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system    Figure 8:   Attack on TL category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 9:   Attack on TH category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system  9. Conclusion  This paper provides an effective approach towards constructing attack models. We show the importance of target item and filler items in construction of successful attack strategies. Through experiments we show that our approach of intelligent selection of filler items based on target item rating distribution results in substantial improvement over the baseline average attack. We also compare our approach with the well known in-segment approach and conclude that our approach gives slightly improved results. In future, we plan to examine the filler items strategies for other attack models, and also create algorithms to improve robustness and stability of recommender systems against shilling attacks 


systems against shilling attacks  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9  10. References  1] Lam, S., and Riedl, J. 2004. Shilling Recommender Systems for Fun and Profit, In Proceedings of the 13th International WWW Conference 2] Mehta, B., Hofmann, T., and Nejdl, W. 2007. Robust Collaborative Filtering, In Proceedings of the 2007 ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, 49-56 3] Mobasher, B., Burke, R., Bhaumik, R., and Williams C. 2007. Towards Trustworthy Recommender Systems: An Analysis of Attack Models and Algorithm Robustness, ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, 7\(2007 4] Burke, R., Mobasher, B., and Bhaumik, R. 2005 Limited Knowledge Shilling Attacks in Collaborative Filtering Systems, In Proceedings of Workshop on Intelligent Techniques for Web Personalization 5] Konstan, J., Miller, B., Maltz, D., Herlocker, J Gordon, L., and Riedl, J. 1997.  GroupLens: Applying Collaborative Filtering to Usenet News Communications of the ACM, 40, 3\(1997 6] Herlocker, J., Konstan, J., Borchers, A., and Riedl J.1999. An Algorithm Framework for Performing Collaborative Filtering, In Proceedings of  SIGIR ACM, 77-87 7] Sarwar, B., Karypis, G., Konstan, J., and Riedl, J 2001. Item-based Collaborative Filtering of Recommendation Algorithms. In Proceedings of the 10th International WWW Conference 8] MovieLens data set,www.grouplens.org  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


 Current Time \(min  Healthy Failure Expected Just-in-time line Actual Remaining Life  Figure 17. Results of failure prognosis 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 Time \(min Sp al l S iz e  m m 2 Interpolation of spall growth according to feature values 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 Time \(min Fe a tu re V a lu e    Interpolation of feature value with noise Interpolation of feature vlaue snapshot with ground truth data 11 CONCLUSIONS This paper shows that enhancements to diagnostic techniques are desirable as well as attainable additions to Health and Usage Monitoring Systems \(HUMS particularly in the case of rotorcraft component monitoring Enhancements like those presented support CBM efforts primarily in two ways: reduce the sensitivity of diagnostic processes to both signal noise and variations in environmental and operating conditions, and improve the performance of detection systems as well as the task of fault identification \(e.g., severity quantification instantiation of reliable prognostics Representative examples, motivated by the interest of the U.S. Army in transitioning from time-based \(using TBO definitions drive train bearing, illustrates the potential benefits of 


pursuing an integrated approach to diagnostics and prognostics, combining technologies for enhanced data preprocessing, advanced diagnostic-support algorithms, fusion at the sensor/feature levels, and an adequate framework for false alarm mitigation and uncertainty management. An architecture for achieving such integration is presented, with emphasis on supporting a robust performance of diagnostics operations, even in the presence of such kinds of disturbances as those observed in data acquired by HUMS vibration sensors. The present study also gives relevance to seeded fault because the technologies discussed can integrate knowledge about damage mechanism interactions or physics-of-failure models, as well as make use of multiple-sensor and multiple-feature data sets representative of known fault conditions For this reason, the team behind this project is evaluating a potential opportunity to perform a series of tests on rotorcraft drive train bearings with varying fault severities and under multiple, though realistic, operating conditions Such tests are being planned to provide algorithm/model validations, as well as diagnostic/prognostic performance assessments, in support of providing the U.S. Army with technologies that make detection systems more robust allow for the implementation of prognostics, and extend the useful life of drive train components. Component degradation testing thus remains as future, follow-up work to the research reported in this document ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work has been partially supported with a cooperative agreement by the Army Research Laboratory under contract number W911NF-07-2-0075. In addition to the primary authors, we would like to thank government and contractor representatives from organizations supporting the Army Utility \(Blackhawk Estes, Mr. Carlos Rivera, and Dr. Jon Keller. This work has also benefitted greatly from consultations with other Army Research Laboratory and NASA Glenn researchers such as Dr. Timothy Krantz, Dr. David Lewicki, Dr. Harry Decker Dr. Hiralal Khatri, Mr. Ken Ranney and Mr. Kwok Tom REFERENCES 1] Branhof, R.W., Grabill, P., Grant, L., and Keller, J.A  Application of Automated Rotor Smoothing Using Continuous Vibration Measurements  American Helicopter Society 61st annual forum, Grapevine, Texas June 1  3, 2005 2] Dora, R., Wright, J., Hess, R., and Boydstun, B  Utility of the IMD HUMS in an Operational Setting on the UH60L Blackhawk  American Helicopter Society 60th annual forum, Baltimore, Maryland, May 7  10, 2004 3] Zakrajsek, J.J., Dempsey, P.J., et al  Rotorcraft Health Management Issues and Challenges  NASA report TM  2006-214022. February, 2006 4] Suggs, D.T., and Wade, D.R  Vibration Based Maintenance Credits for the UH-60 Oil Cooler Fan Assembly  American Helicopter Society, CBM Specialists Meeting, Huntsville, Alabama, February 13 2008 5] Baker, C., Marble, S., Morton, B.P., and Smith, B.J  Failure Modes and Prognostic Techniques for H-60 Tail Rotor Drive System Bearings  IEEEAC paper #1122 IEEE, 2007 6] Keller, J.A., Branhof, R., Dunaway, D., and Grabill, P  Examples of Condition Based Maintenance with the Vibration Management Enhancement Program   American Helicopter Society 61st Annual Forum Grapevine, Texas, June 1  3, 2005 7] Zhang, B., Sconyers, C., Byington, C.S., Patrick, R Orchard, M.E., and Vachtsevanos, G.J  Anomaly Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of 


Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of Unanticipated Faults  International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management, Denver, Colorado October 6-9, 2008 8] Byington, C.S., Watson, M., Lee, H., and Hollins, M  Sensor-level Fusion to Enhance Health and Usage Monitoring Systems  American Helicopter Society, 64th Annual Forum, Montreal, Canada, April 29-May 1, 2008 9] Engel, S.J., Gilmartin, B.J., Bongort, K., and Hess, A  Prognostics, the Real Issues Involved With Predicting Life Remaining  Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, Montana, March 18-25, 2000 12 BIOGRAPHY Romano Patrick is a Project Manager at Impact Technologies. He received a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology specializing in model-based machine health diagnostics and prognostics. He also holds an MBA from Georgia Tech and degrees from U Texas, Arlington and U. Panamericana, Mexico. With career focus on interdisciplinary integration of technologies, his recent work involves practicable diagnostics/prognostics design for complex systems, such as rotorcraft drive trains Past experience includes automation and design for a variety of industrial and government sponsors \(DARPA, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, etc and program coordination at U. Panamericana, and some entrepreneurial R&amp;D Matthew J. Smith is a Senior Project Engineer at Impact Technologies. During his tenure with Impact, Matthew has performed multiple efforts pertaining to bearing vibration analysis, diagnostic and prognostic system development, and experimental study of faulted system reponse and fault progression. Previously, as a research assistant at Penn State and the NASA Glenn Research Center, Matthew performed experimental and analytical oil-free bearing analyses Matthew received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from The Pennsylvania State University. His research interests include: prognostic health assessment for bearing and actuator systems, grease degradation modeling and fault classifier development Bin Zhang received his Ph.D. degree from Nanyang Technological University, Singapore in 2007. He received his BE and MSE degrees from Nanjing University of Science and Technology, China, in 1993 and 1999, respectively. He is a senior member of IEEE. From 2005 to present, he has been a Post-Doc with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta GA His current research interests are fault diagnosis and failure prognosis, systems and control, digital signal processing learning control, intelligent systems and their applications to robotics, power electronics and various mechanical systems Carl S. Byington is a Professional Engineer and the Director of Systems Engineering at Impact Technologies. He directs R&amp;D in pursuit of advanced, automated systems health management for land-based, shipboard, and airborne machinery for military and commercial customers. He is Chairman of the Machinery Diagnostics &amp; Prognostics Committee of ASME and a member of IEEE, AIAA, SAE and AHS. He has a BS degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and an MS in Aeronautical Engineering from George Washington University, and has published over 60 papers, book chapters, magazine and journal articles related to diagnostics and prognostics technologies George Vachtsevanos is Professor Emeritus at the Georgia Institute of Technology and also serves as the Chief Scientist at Impact Technologies, LLC. He directed the Intelligent Control Systems laboratory at Georgia Tech for the past 28 years where faculty and students are conducting research in fault diagnosis/prognosis and fault-tolerant control of engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial 


engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial processes, neurotechnology and cardiotechnology, and unmanned systems. His research work has been sponsored by government and industry and has published over 250 technical papers in his area of expertise. He is the lead author of a book on "Intelligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis of Engineering Systems" published by Wiley in 2006. He is the recipient of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Activities award and the ECE Distinguished Professor award Romeo de la Cruz del Rosario, Jr. is the Chief of the Electronics Technology Branch at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. He also serves as the Army Technology Objective ATO P&amp;D Operational Readiness and Condition Based Maintenance He received the B.E.E. degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and the M.S.E. and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Since 1991 he has been an engineer at the Harry Diamond Laboratory then U.S Army Research Laboratory working in several areas including high power microwave technology characterization &amp; modeling of heterostructure RF devices and fabrication and failure analysis of electron devices and circuits  pre></body></html 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





