Long-term Performance Observation of a Free Space Optics Link  M. Löschnigg*, P. Mandl*, E. Leitgeb  Institute of Broadband Communication, TU Graz, Austria markus.loeschnigg@student.tugraz.at, peter.mandl@student.tugraz.at, erich.leitgeb@tugraz.at   Abstract New bandwidth demanding services for our data networks, especially the Internet, require higher data rates This ongoing certainty will be an issue accompanying the development of future networks and a certain focus will be 
kept on this in the next couple of decades. The already available high data rates in the backbone of the Internet have to be made accessible for the end-user. Free Space Optics \(FSO\ very fast and reliable endorsement to radio links using light to transmit data. Different FSOsystems have been developed at TU Graz in the past years ranging from cheap devices, built with components available on the mass market, to expert systems using components from space technology. Besides other 
influences, weather and in particular fog has a big impact on the reliability of a FSO link. One of these systems was used in a project to collect long-term performance data over a period of almost three years. This paper shows the results in terms of availability of the optical link used in the conducted project and the influence of fog I  I NTRODUCTION  In the last three decades the use of data networks has increased enormously. In the beginning the Internet mainly provided text-oriented services like websites or 
emailing, whereas nowadays multimedia services, like Internet Protocol Television \(IPTV\ or application service providing \(ASP\as come to the fore. All these modern services offered require higher data rates for the end customers. Optical networks are networks based on optical components providing high data rates and high capacities. Fibre-to-the-home delivers these high data rates to the consumer unfortunately fibre is not comprehensively available or the cabling costs are simply too high Free Space Optics \(FSO\ a wireless technology for 
the last mile access capable to overcome the lack of fibre cables. FSO systems can be operated in a point-to-point mode to interconnect two locations or in a point-tomultipoint mode. In the past years different types of FSO systems have been developed at TU Graz. To undermine the high availability of FSO links, very short term observations have been conducted. Availability in general defines the proportion of time a system is in full operational condition. It is usually expressed in percentage. In terms of FSO systems the availability gives the percentage of time a link is available for 
communication. The results of these observations have revealed that atmospheric disturbances, especially fog have an impact on the reliability of a FSO link Therefore a project was initiated in April 2006 to collect long-term data. In the municipality of Dobl, close to Graz, Austria, a deactivated antenna mast of a broadcast station is used by public institutions to collect weather data and is therefore equipped with a broadband Internet connection. Dobl was interested to interlink its elementary school close to the antenna mast with the broadcast station to provide an Internet connection for the students [2 T h e 
air-distance between the school building and the broadcast station is approximately 300 meters. Considering all these circumstances the location is ideal for measurements   Figure 1.Visualization of the project area with the FSO link  II  FSO  S YSTEMS   P ROJECT  A free space optics system \(FSO\ a very flexible broadband access solution providing high data rates without long cabling to access backbone networks. In 
comparison to other wireless access technologies \(e.g point-to-point radio systems\ a FSO system has outstanding advantages like higher bandwidth, better ability to concentrate beams, simpler assembling and disassembling, better beam bundling, no license fees for the usage of radio channels, better security against wiretapping. Disadvantages are atmospheric influences like rain, snow, fog and direct sun beams. Today FSO 


point-to-point links are used for the quick setup of low range inner city links, broadband links between motorways, rail tracks or rivers, for the wiretap-proof connection between company buildings and corresponding institutions and to connect mobile sanitary and other equipment of executive authorities, the fire brigade, and armed forces to a backbone network during crisis operations. For these reasons FSO is the optimal technology to operate within the numerated and many more cases A FSO system which offers a bidirectional point-topoint function consists of two separated optical sending and receiving units \(OSE\with integrated receiving and transmitting devices. The receiving part is realised with PIN diodes whereas the transmitting one is made up with LED or laser diodes The FSO devices used in the present \(Fig. 2\ject where built with components available on the mass market. The possible functional range of these devices is declared for a distance ranging from 30 m to 600 m with clear sky conditions. The recommended distance of operation is defined for an air-line of slightly less than 300 m    Figure 2. FSO system developed by TU Graz and used in the project mounted onto the antenna mast with a detailed front-view of the system in the right hand corner  The optical transmitter consists of eight high power LEDs operating at 850nm with a total transmission power of 28mW and a beam divergence of 42mrad \(2.5°\. This complies with Laser Class 1M \(IEC 60 825-1: 2001\The optical receiver is equipped with a Si-PIN diode with a sensitivity of 45µW/m 2 and an additional optical band pass filter. The data and management interfaces are realised with a fibre connection, the data transfer rate is given by 10Mbit/s with a protocol transparent Ethernet interface  To adjust the system, both OSE units are equipped with LED indicators and an analogue measurement instrument to display the received power One OSE device was mounted onto the antenna mast Fig. 2\he corresponding device onto a stable massive suspension arrangement outside a window of the school building. A clear line of sight is of course necessary and available between the locations \(Fig. 3\. Data collecting started in April 2006 and ended at the end of November 2008. All necessary power supplies were redundantly available not to lose data because of lack of power   Figure 3. Line of sight from the school building to the antenna mast III  A TMOSPHERIC I NFLUENCES  Short term observations of other installations have shown that atmospheric influences affect the reliability of a FSO link on Earth. Different influences, like rainfall snow, direct sunlight or fog cause diverse disturbances to the connection. FSO links used in space for inter-satellite communications are not confronted with this kind of atmospheric influences and are therefore not hindered by weather. Our atmosphere is divided into different layers with different characteristics. The Troposphere is the layer we live in and is also the layer where the entire weather pattern is happening. It is known from other investigations that dense fog can have the major impact on the reliability of a FSO link Everything falling down from the sky in terms of weather is referred to as atmospheric fallout. The continuous movement of water below, above and on the surface of the Earth is called hydrologic cycle. During this movement water changes from one aggregate state to another, always repeating the movement T h ere are  different processes during this movement, one of them is condensation. Condensation is responsible for producing clouds and fog through transformation of water vapour to liquid water droplets in the air. Fog is distinguished from clouds through the contact with the ground. Basically, fog is a cloud bank contacting the ground and causing the visibility to drop to a value less than 1000 m. Fog itself is again subdivided into many types, depending on how the cooling that caused the condensation occurred    Figure 4. Fog covering the valley, seen from a mountain at 2000 m 


For the formation of fog it is fundamental for the water to condense upon something. This could be dust, aerosols or anything else like pollutants. So environmental pollution can have an effect on the forming of fog which indirectly affects the availability of an optical link It is also very important to understand that there is a difference between maritime and continental fog  the average dense fog in the project area the attenuation can be defined with up to 100 db/km. The state of fog is very stable for a long time, like an hour, not causing fast changes in the attenuation. Figure 5 shows typical results found in earlier investigations for the area of Graz  Figure 5. Specific attenuation for 850 & 950 nm at Graz   Dense maritime fog on the contrary is different and can be defined with up to 400 db/km. Fast changes are very common because of the sea-side winds moving the air-masses quickly \(Fig. 6\e results in figure 6 were collected in La Turbie, near Nice \(France\ng with the data show in figu   T h ere is als o a s i g n i f i cant  difference in the particle size. Particles of continental fog usually have a diameter of 4 µm whereas particles of maritime fog have an average size of 20 µm ll i n all  the assumption can be made that the availability of a FSO link will mainly depend on the geographic location Different locations on Earth will bear different availability data for FSO links  Figure 6. Specific attenuation for 550 nm and 850 & 950 nm near Nice   IV  M EASUREMENT   D ATA C OLLECTION  Data about the availability of the link was gathered through permanently sending small Internet Protocol packets from one end and requiring the receiving side to reply to the sent packet. The measurements were conducted under real life conditions. The whole network of the school with about twenty personal computers was connected to the Internet using the broadband connection in the broadcast station accessed through the FSO link The broadband connection is limited to 4 Mbit/s, so even under full load the optical crosslink still provides sufficient resources to handle the measurement packets At both locations dedicated servers for collecting data were installed and used to initiate traffic over the optical wireless connection every 10 ms. The results of the measurements were stored into a remotely accessible database. Additionally every full hour a regular file download via the Hypertext Transfer Protocol \(http\was initiated over the FSO link to protocol the data rate. The size of the transferred file was exactly 200 megabytes. A high layer protocol was chosen to fulfil the requirements of a real life test As stated before visibility drops enormously when fog comes into play. The project area is very close to an airport and so Austro Control, the official agency overseeing the Austrian Airspace, is also collecting visibility data for the area around the antenna mast. As fog is very stable in that area visibility is only measured once an hour, giving twenty four values a day.  Having two different sources of data made it necessary to correlate this information V  R ESULTS AND I NTERPRETATION  The already available statistic data from Central Institute for Meteorology and Geodynamics in Austria concerning the project area shows that there are approximately 140 days of fog every year, usually in the period between October and March. So we expect mainly failures in the optical wireless connection during the winter months. The availability for the present link is shown for every single year in the following diagram based on the raw data. The raw data reflects the correlated values from the sources without considering known breakdowns of the system     Figure 7. Availability of the FSO link from 4/2006 to 11/2008 per year 


In the year 2006 the overall availability based on the raw data is 94.79%, which is still a high value but low compared to the other two years. During December 2006 there was a scheduled renovation work going on for seven days demanding to shutdown the optical link Excluding the collected values during the intended shutdown gives the real availability \(Fig. 8    Figure 8. Availability of the FSO link from 4/2006 to 11/2008 per year with corrected data of intended shutdowns  The availability of the link calculated with the corrected values increases to 97.35% which is very close to the values of the years 2007 and 2008. This allows the conclusion that the yearly cyclic weather pattern over the observation period behaved stable. Averaging the data of the almost three years gives the total availability of the FSO link for the present project \(Fig. 9    Figure 9. Average yearly FSO link availability based on the corrected data from 4/2006 until 11/2008  The average availability of 97.80% is a very good result for an optical wireless communication path. In comparison to a wired connection with availability of around or even more than 99.99% the investigated value seems to be low. Assuming a non leap year with 365 days gives a break-down time of the FSO link for slightly greater than 8 days \(8.03 d\ FSO links deliver a very high performance in terms of speed but the case study shows a downtime of eight days. So further projects should be conducted to couple FSO links with other wireless links to enhance the overall availability However, the question arises, taking all available data into account, if the assumption is correct and the FSO link mainly fails in the winter months from October to March due to the worse weather conditions compared to the summer months. Again, it has to be stated that this is only true for the project area. In the area of Graz, Austria dense fog mainly appears in the colder months due to low temperature. Fog is usually produced when the difference between temperature and dew point is less than 2.5 degrees Celsius    Figure 10. Average FSO link availability – a comparison of winter and summer months from 4/2006 until 11/2008  Figure 10 clearly shows the correctness of the assumption made prior. During the summer months the availability is exceptionally high whereas in the winter months the percentage of 95.61% reduces the overall performance to 97.80%. As we know that fog in the project area mainly occurs in the winter time we need to find a relation between the breakdown of the link and the decrease of the visibility caused by atmospheric influences. Only the winter months are of interest because no breakdowns occurred during the summer months. Due to the fact that the huge amount of data points cannot all be show in one diagram, a representative day was chosen    Figure 11. Availability of the FSO link and corresponding visibility on the 26 th of December 2006  Figure 11 shows the availability in an hourly resolution in blue colour and its ordinate is on the left hand side whereas the visibility has its ordinate on the right hand side and is shown in red colour. Values of the visibility higher than 350 m have been scaled to 350 m to fit into the diagram nicely. The documented maximum value of the visibility on the 26 th of December is 20 km. Any visibility value greater than 350 m has no importance for 


this setup. Analyzing all the available data reveals that the availability of the FSO link and the corresponding visibility relate to each other in a simple way. For the used FSO systems in the present project a threshold can be set. As soon as the visibility drops to a value less than 200 m the optical link is heavily disturbed by atmospheric influences and the crosslink dies. The components used to build the devices were chosen to overcome distances of up to 600 m with perfectly clear sky conditions and of about 300 m with light atmospheric disturbances However, dense fog definitely is a massive atmospheric influence and has therefore an impact on the availability of this very FSO link In contrary to radio communication in Free Space Optics the data rate does not drop to a smaller value under atmospheric influence. The optical link is either operational with the high data rate promised or completely lacks service. This is a great difference to other wireless technologies like Wireless Local Area Network \(WLAN\r satellite communication. The reason for this can be found in the way of communication. The pin photo diode at the receivi ng end tries to detect the incoming data from the sending site. Either the detection is successful, meaning sufficient information made its way into the receiving end with the full available data rate or the detection fails causing the communication to break down completely. The observations made during this project also undermine the very binary operation mode of FSO links. If a significant amount of photons can be detected by the photo diode then the full data rate is available. On the contrary if the threshold of detection is undercut no communication whatsoever is possible Deep analysis of the daily data and confirms this performance Furthermore not only the availability of the link is very high, also the devices themselves obviously provide great service over a long period of time. The initial installation of the FSO link including mounting the devices alignment of the systems and testing the connection, took one and an half hours. Since then no maintenance work had to be accomplished VI  C ONCLUSION  Free Space Optics is an excellent wireless communication technology, especially as last mile access and nomadic use technology [9 T h e in s t allat i on proces s  is very easy and quick, the high data rates available are definitive a great advantage. This field study has shown that a standalone FSO link can provide a very reliable connection with a total availability of 97.80% over thirty two months. In any case FSO systems should not be seen in competition with WLAN or other radio technologies it should rather be seen as a widening to the wireless world Future work should concentrate on increasing the availability and reliability of FSO links Current researches at TU Graz deal with a topic called switch-over. Links based on microwaves and FSO connections are differently influenced by atmospheric incidents. Microwave links are mainly disturbed by rain whereas FSO connections principally interfere with dense fog. The switch-over technology tries to combine both existing technologies to increase the overall reliability [4  of a link. Basically a FSO link is used for communication to provide a high data rate. However, parallel to the FSO connection a microwave link is installed to function as a backup channel. Whenever the atmospheric disturbances are too heavy for the optical link to work, a switch-over to the fallback microwave link is issued. As soon as the optical link comes available again the communication channel switches back to the more powerful FSO link in terms of data rates. The combined system is often called hybrid system d a real  f a s t s w i t cho v e r is  v ita l f o r it to work Another idea to increase the availability could be a change in the setup of the receiver side. In a very new approach someone could try to use greater areas like house walls as a receiver. The walls need to be coated with a special material collecting the information Finally, the collected data by the successfully conducted project has undermined the importance of fog for the FSO technology once more. The long-term observation of this link has shown that the availability of the optical connection in the summer months is better than in the winter months in the latitudes of Austria A CKNOWLEDGMENT  Regarding the excellent outcome of results the research group for Optical Communications \(OptiKom\TU Graz thanks all their cooperation partners for their support mainly the national cooperation partner Telekom Austria AG, the government of Styria, ML11 – EDVDienstleistungen GmbH and the international cooperation partners within COST 270, SatNEx and COST 291 R EFERENCES  1 L e itg e b E., Br e g e n z e r J., F a sse r P G e bhar t M  Free Space Optics Extension to Fiber-Networks for the „Last Mile Proceedings and Presentation at IEEE / LEOS 2002 Annual Meeting, 10 th 14 th  of November 2002, Glasgow, Scotland  2  L e i t g e b E  S h e i kh Muham m ad S Ch lesti l Ch G e bha r t M  Birnbacher U Reliability of FSO Links in Next Generation Optical Networks Proceedings and Invited Presentation at the IEEEconference ICTON 2005, 3 rd 7 th of Juliy2005, Barcelona  3 L e itg e b E G e bhar t  M B i r n ba che r U S c hr o tte r P   Me r d o n ig  A  Truppe A Hybrid wireless networks for civil-militarycooperation \(CIMIC\ and disaster management Proceedings and Presentation at SPIE's European Symposium on Optics and Photonics for Defence and Security, Vol. 5614, pp. 139-150, 25 th  28 th October 2004, London  4 L e itg e b E., G e bhar t  M  Bir n b a c h e r U K o gle r W S c hr o t te r P    High availability of hybrid wireless networks Proceedings and Presentation at SPIE's International Symposium Photonics Europe Vol. 5465, pp. 238-249, 26 th 30 th April 2004, Straßburg  5 L e itg e b E., G e bhar t  M  Bir n b a c h e r U  Optical Networks, Last Mile Access and Applications Book-Chapter of “Free-Space Laser Communications: Principles and Advances”, \(accepted 2004 published 2008\, Springer Verlag, ISBN: 978-0-387-28652-5  6 L e itg e b E., G e bhar t  M F a sse r P   Br e g e n z e r J., T a n c z o s J., I m pact of atmospheric effects in Free Space Optics transmission systems Proceedings and Presentation at SPIE Photonics West, LASE 2003, 25 th 31 st of January 2003, San Jose, CA, USA  


7 F l e c ke r B C h l e s t il C L e itg e b E   S h e i k h  M u ham m ad S   G e bhar t  M Results of Attenuation Measurements for Optical Wireless Channels under Dense Fog Conditions Proceedings and Presentation at the SPIE Optics and Photonics Symposium, San Diego, USA, August, 2006  8 L e itg e b E   S h e i kh M u ham m a d S   F l e c ke r B Chl e s t il  Ch G e bhar t  M., Javornik T The influence of dense fog on Optical Wireless systems, analysed by measurements in Graz for improving the link-reliability Proceedings and Invited Presentation at the IEEEconference ICTON 2006, 18 th 22 nd June 2006, Nottingham, UK 9 E L e itg e b M  L  schnig g  U  B i r n bac h e r G  S c hw ar z  A  Me r d o n ig  High Reliable Optical Wireless Links for the Last Mile Access  Invited Presentation at the IEEE-conference ICTON 2008, June 2008, Greece, Athens 10 G  n t e r D  Ro th  Unser Wetter: Wolkenbilder, Wetterphänomene Großwetterlagen, Wettervorhersage: Wolkenbilder Wetterphänomene, Großwetterlagen, Wettervorhersage BLV Buchverlag, 2008  11 O  Ma ho ny C. P o l i t i D  K l o n idis  R. N e ja ba ti D  S i m e o n i d o u   Future Optical Networks IEEE Journal of Lightwave Technology December 2006  12 S a n d al i d is H  G T s if ts is, T  A  K a r a g i ann i d i s G  K U y sal  M  BER Performance of FSO Links over Strong Atmospheric Turbulence Channels with Pointing Errors Communications Letters, IEEE Volume 12, Issue 1, January 2008  13 H  Y u kse l  Studies of the Effects of Atmospheric Turbulence on Free-Space optical communications University of Maryland    


  Chris t i na Bouch e r, Dan i e l G. Brown, Paul  Church, \223 A Graph Clustering Approach to weak Motif Recognition 224, WABI 2007 LNBI 4645    J  Buh l e r and M T o m p a, \223 Finding motifs using random projections 224 Proceedings Fifth Annual International Conference on Computational Molecular Biology RECOMB April 2001     E. Esk i n and P. Pevz ner, \223 Finding composite regulatory patterns in DNA sequences 224   Bioinformatics S1, 2002, pp 354-363     P. Pev z ner and S.H Sz e, \223 Combinatorial approaches to finding subtle signals in DNA sequences 224 Proc. Eighth International Conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology 2000, pp 269-278    A. Price, S. Ram a bhadr a n, P. Pev z ner  223Finding subtle motifs by branching from sample strings\224  Bioinformatics supplementary edition, Proceedings of the Second European Conference on Computational Biology \(ECCB-2003     J Dav i la, S. Ba ll a and S. Ra j a s e k a ran  223 Space And Time Efficient Algorithms for Planted Motif Search 224 Second International Workshop on Bioinformatics Research and Applications \(IWBRA 2006 May 2006    M. Li, B Ma an d L Wang  223 On the Closest String and Substring Problems 224 Journal of the ACM Vol. 49, No. 2, March 2002    F Y.L. Chin an d H C.M Leung 223 Voting Algorithms for Discovering Long Motifs 224  Proceedings of the Third Asia-Pacific Bioinformatics Conference \(APBC2005 Singapore 261-271, January 2005       


vs Laser Sp Success Rate Vs Occlusion During Lab Testing The algorithm Visibility Rtic El 2 4 40 60 so 100 same poses are reduced to occlude part of the target 8  Figure 10 Success rate vs occlusion 1 Polygon 2 Polygons 5 Polygons Figure 8 Edge distortions caused by diverging laser beam Sensor point of view left Top view right Figure 10 presents the results obtained for a fully visible target down to a 3000 visible target Very good robustness to occlusions has been obtained down to 400O visibility The main reason for the sudden drop in performance is due to the fact that the polygon selection algorithm could not find polygons that were large enough to meet its specified threshold The algorithm therefore aborted in most cases when more than 60 of the target was hidden The polygon selection process could be tuned differently to accommodate mission profiles that would result in more occlusion than tested here The limit is that sufficient nonambiguous geometry must be visible For this test the same simulated sensor characteristics were used but the simulated laser spot diameter was varied between 10 and 150mm Figure 9 shows the success rate obtained for 1,2 and 5 polygons as the spatial resolution of the simulated sensor drops The top X axis shows the corresponding range at which the spot diameter shown in the bottom X axis would be reached if the sensor has a lmRad divergence Note that most scanning sensors have a divergence that is less than lmRad but this provides a reference for the worst case scenario As would be expected using more polygons greatly reduces the effect of decreasing spatial resolution by increasing the robustness to edge distortions 60 Success Rate vs Laser Spot Diarmeter mr 1 cover more than the sensor's field of view The algorithm must be still capable of finding the target under these occluded conditions This test Spot Diameter mm Figure 9 Success Rate scans were acquired using different ot Diameter scan patterns Lissajous Rosette and Spiral Figure 12 The Laser scan extents uses the were selected to avoid lab clutter scan extents as this would have introduced outliers and violated the operational rendezvous and assumptions defined for this system docking operations the operating range of the vision system is very large Under these circumstances it is very likely that at closer range the target will was tested using a TriDAR sensor and was positioned at roughly 20m maximum range of the facility 1 Om and 4m away from the target object Note that at 4m less than half of the target object is visible The range selected is therefore representative of the final part of were tested For each viewpoint 3 different 1024 point as used for the previous tests except the Po0 on gr 21 Polygons 5 Pdlygoans 1 9 8 7 06 Taget a full size mockup of the target object used for simulation Figure 11 The TriDAR a docking mission where the target would go from fully visible long range to only partially visible short range At each range 10 different relative poses 


success was obtained by acquiring high resolution data from the TriDAR success rate obtained using TriDAR data Very good performance is observed success rate of the algorithm increases with the number of polygons tested As would be expected the processing time also scales with the number of polygons but is only slightly affected by the target range Note that the number of points was used for simulations Figure 13 presents the even when the target is only partially visible As observed in simulations the Success Rate with TriDAR Data mean pose mean pose same as what vs Range 3-sigma processing time ms vs Range m 1000 F Figure 12 Sample point clouds obtained using the selected  500 _ n a 400 300 200 100 0 _ 4 Figure 1 Range 6 8 10 12 Range m 1 Polygon 2 Polygons 5 Polygons 14 16 18 4 Processing Time 3a of the algorithm our purposes considering the relatively low accuracy required from the localization system The criteria for pose vs Range m 20 10 0 _ Figure 11 Target Object 4 6 8 10 12 Range m 1 Polygon 2 Polygons 5 Polygons 14 16 18 Figure 13 Success Rate with TriDAR data scan patterns side view Lissajous left Rosette middle Spiral right The true relative pose used for determining pose error and localization sensor at each position and calculating the pose using an ICP algorithm This technique provides an estimate of the ground truth that is close enough for success remained the on target remained fairly constant 900-1000 throughout all these tests Table 3 shows the absolute error observed during lab testing for successful localizations The pose accuracy does not significantly improve when using more polygons but it remains well within the desired range The error observed is also consistent with simulation results Table 2 900 800 700 E a 600 E vs Table 3 Lab Testing Mean Pose Error 9 100 90 80 70 0 60 t 50 n a 30 Polygon X Y Z RotX RotY RotZ s mm mm mm deg deg deg 1 50.3 41.8 30.5 1.6 1.4 2.8 2 41.3 45.7 28.9 1.52 1.4 2.8 5 40.8 47.2 30.3 1.4 1.3 3.1 


6 CONCLUSION Neptec has developed a vision system for autonomous onorbit rendezvous and docking that does not require the use of cooperative markers on the target spacecraft The system uses an active TriDAR 3D sensor and efficient model based tracking algorithms to provide 6 degree of freedom 6DOF relative pose information in real-time The system takes full advantage of the large amount of geometric information contained in 3D data sets By following the More Information Less Data MILD paradigm where the sensor only acquires the data necessary to obtain the pose of the target real-time performance can be achieve with flight hardware Following the same smart scanning strategy Neptec has developed a novel technique for localizing a known object on-orbit The new technique called Polygonal Aspect Hashing does not require an initial guess of the relative pose and therefore can be used to initialize tracking or recover if tracking is lost Furthermore it only requires a very sparse non organized 3D point cloud thus keeping the data acquisition and pre-processing overhead to a minimum The technique follows logic similar to the process of adding a piece in a jigsaw puzzle First the set of possible positions and orientations of the scan with respect to the model is reduced to the set of poses that have sufficient overlap Once the set of poses is reduced to the most likely candidates a surface fit check is performed to determine the best matching pose The surface fit check measures the amount of overlap between an input scan and the surface of a reference 3D model of the object to find The algorithm developed was tested with both simulated and TriDAR data Results showed excellent performance and demonstrated that the algorithm works well even with very sparse input data sets as well as in the presence of sensor noise and distortions Processing time results obtained showed that real-time performance can be achieved with this technique As would be expected it was shown that the robustness can be increased by testing more polygons at the expense of processing time Another alternative would be to run the algorithm with one polygon over several sequential scans This technique would be well suited for operations where there is relative motion between the sensor and target like in a tumbling satellite scenario or if the processing power is limited In the future Neptec plans to test more objects with representative geometry and materials to further characterize the algorithm performance The effect of object symmetries will also be investigated It was observed that most failures tend to occur where the object is most symmetric Code optimization will also be performed to further improve performance 1 MacLean S Pinkney L Machine Vision in Space Can Aeronaut Space J 39\(2 63-77 1993 2 Howard Richard T Bryan Thomas C DART AVGS flight results Proc SPIE Vol 6555 pp.65550L 2007 3 Ruel S English C Anctil M Church P 43DLASSO Real-time pose estimation from 3D data for autonomous satellite servicing Proc ISAIRAS 2005 Conference Munich Germany 5-8 September 2005 ESA SP-603 4 Ruel S English C Anctil M Daly J Smith C Zhu S Real-time 3D vision solution for on-orbit autonomous rendezvous and docking Proc SPIE Vol 6220 pp.622009 2006 5 Andrew Johnson and Martial Hebert Using spin images for efficient object recognition in cluttered 3-D scenes IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 21\(5 449 May 1999 6 H Wolfson I Rigoutsos Geometric Hashing An Overview IEEE Computational Science  Engineering 4\(4 October 1997 7 English C Zhu X Smith C Ruel S Christie I TriDAR A hybrid sensor for exploiting the complimentary nature of triangulation and LIDAR technologies Proc ISAIRAS 2005 Conference Munich Germany 5-8 September 2005 ESA SP-603 8 J Obermark G Creamer B Kelm W Wagner C Henshaw SUMO/FREND vision system for autonomous satellite grapple Proc SPIE Vol 6555 pp 65550Y 2007 9 Deslauriers A Showalter I Montpool A Taylor R Christie I Shuttle TPS inspection using triangulation scanning technology SPIE 2005 Orlando Florida April 2005 10 Ruel S English C Melo L Berube A Aikman D Deslauriers A Church P and Maheux J Field testing of a 3D Automatic Target Recognition and Pose Estimation Algorithm SPIE Defense  Security Symposium Orlando Florida April 12-16 2004 11 English C Ruel S Melo L Church P and Maheux J Development of a Practical 3D Automatic Target Recognition and Pose Estimation Algorithm SPIE Defense  Security Symposium Proceedings on Automatic Target Recognition XIV Orlando Florida April 2004 10 REFERENCES 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


 12 7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This research task started with an all-FORTRAN implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm converted it to C code, and developed a number of H W/SW systems on the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA The execution ti me of the all software C implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm was recorded and used for comparison as a base case Two software-based optimizations were applied that reduced the executi on time by more than 4.5x These included modifying the cod e to use all single-precision math library functions no n-ANSI when dealing with single-precision data and utilizi ng the IBM Performance Libraries  Perflib  to improve the speed of all single and double-precision arithmetic The idea of using a DP-only Perflib was introduced and then used in conjunction with the single-precision APU-FPU to fu rther improve system performance The bulk of the research dealt with looking into ha rdwarebased improvements to the FTIR spectrometry system  These included the Xilinx APU-FPU, and a single-pre cision dot-product co-processor The APU-FPU delivered significant speedup for all single-precision floati ng-point operations The dot-product co-processor although ineffective in the FTIR spectrometry system due to poor spatial locality of the data, showed nearly a 2x im provement over the APU-FPU when working with smaller, sequent ially accessed data sets Furthermore it was implemented  as a load/store-based APU-connected FCM thus establishin g a reference for creating similar APU co-processors T he design of a non-system-bused CPU-coupled co-process or is frequently overlooked in design guides yet it is a  very effective way to offload software routines to hardw are implementation The ML410 development board on which all of this w ork was conducted, hosts the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA contain ing two PPC405 processors This research task focused o n optimizing the performance of the FTIR spectrometry  algorithm on a single PPC405 core, however, the des ign can be extended to utilize both available cores. Figure 16 on the following page shows a dual-core design that can be  implemented on the ML410 board The two PPC405 processors each have dedicated PLB interfaces but s hare a common OPB. On the common OPB, the processors need to negotiate access to the RS232 UART and SystemACE CF  controller. This negotiation can be done through du al-ported shared BRAM accessible by each processor from thei r respective PLB. The ML410 board has two external me mory interfaces that are both utilized in this concept PPC405 CPU0 uses the DDR2 DIMM 256 Mbytes while PPC405 CPU1 utilizes the DDR on-board component memory 64  Mbytes\. Each of the processors has some dedicated on-chip memory OCM connected through OCM interface The instruction side OCM is particularly necessary so e ach processor can store its own boot code in its own on chip memory as booting both processors from external mem ory may not be possible Both processors have their own FPUs connected on dedicated FCB interfaces Since the processing of individual interferograms is a comple tely independent task an up to 2x reduction in executio n time may be possible with a dual-core system However o ne bottleneck that may limit the speedup is negotiatin g access to the shared CF card controller Additional improvement to the overall performance o f the FTIR spectrometry system may be possible by rewriti ng the software in C. The automatic conversion from FORTRA N to C using f2c most likely does not produce optimal code, and it is certainly not appealing to read Some functio ns may also need to be rewritten with an optimized pattern  of data access This can help in cases such as the dot-prod uct coprocessor Further performance improvement may be achieved by trying a different compiler one that is specifical ly targeted for the embedded PPC405 processor A V2P performanc e study done at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center concluded that using the WindRiver Diab DCC 5.2 com piler provides a 38 performance increase over the GNU-GC C 3.4 compiler The comparison was based on running a  Dhrystone benchmark application on a 400 MHz PPC405 design The GNU-GCC compiler achieved 458 DMIPS while the WindRiver Diab DCC achieved 628 DMIPS as  reported by Xilinx\ [10   Implementing additional hardware co-processors may result in the further reduction of execution time Using t he dotproduct design as a reference the FFT function fo r example can be implemented in the hardware This w ill help in the spectrum computation component of the s oftware processing. It may be necessary to re-arrange the d ata access pattern for optimal co-processor performance to av oid the pitfall seen when deploying the dot-product core Finally, no embedded processing system is complete without an OS. Linux is a good choice and is supported by X ilinx in EDK It is important to first finalize the hardware  design prior to deploying the OS Support for the APU may be lacking in Linux and getting the OS to recognize th e hardware FPU may be a project in itself For the FTIR spectrometry algorithm this research task started the process of moving from an all software system to a mixed HW/SW implementation on the V4FX60 hybridFPGA In the best case a more than 8x speedup was achieved compared to the FTIR base system This implementation, although nearly 2x faster the V2P s ystem at NASA JPL still lags behind the current state-of-th e-art space processor  the BAE RAD750 However the marg in between the two was narrowed down significantly and with further research as suggested above will most lik ely be eliminated altogether Directly benefiting from the  work presented in this paper is a 3-year JPL technology 


 13 development task that will support the MATMOS on-bo ard processing implementation for a future flight i nstrument   Fig. 16 Dual-core concept targeting ML410 development boar d 


 14 R EFERENCES  1  D L Bekker Hardware and Software Optimization of Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry on HybridFPGAs  MS Thesis Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY August 2007 Available http://hdl.handle.net/1850/4805  2  P J Pingree J.-F L Blavier G C Toon and D  L Bekker An FPGA/SoC Approach to On-Board Data Processing  Enabling New Mars Science with Smart Payloads in IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  Big Sky MT March 2007 Available http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?isnu mber=4 144550&arnumber=4161501  3  S I Feldman D M Gay M W Maimone and N L Schryer, “A Fortran-to-C Converter,” Computing Scie nce Technical Report 149, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murra y Hill NJ March 22 1995 Available http://www.netlib.org/f2c/f2c.pdf  4  IBM PowerPC Embedded Processor Performance Libraries tech rep IBM Microelectronics Divisi on Hopewell Junction, NY, December 12 2003 5  Virtex-4 Data Sheet: DC and Switching Characterist ics Datasheet DS302 Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 27 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/publications/ds302.pdf  6  ML410 Embedded Development Platform  Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 6 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug085.pdf  7  G Toon J.-F Blavier M McAuley and A Kiely Advanced On-Board Science Data Processing System for a Mars-orbiting FTIR Spectrometer R&TD Task 01STCR  R.05.023.048 NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena, CA, 2005 8  APU Floating-Point Unit v3.0 product specificati on Xilinx Inc San Jose CA January 26 2007 Availa ble http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/ipcenter/data_sheet/ap u_fp u.pdf  9  PowerPC 405 Processor Block Reference Guide Xilinx Inc San Jose CA July 20 2005 Available www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug018.pdf  10  D. Petrick, “Analyzing the Xilinx Virtex-II Pro Pow erPC with the Dhrystone Benchmark Applications,” tech. r ep NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt Maryland Available http://klabs.org/DEI/Processor/PowerPC/v2pro_ppc_pe rf ormance_petrick.doc  B IOGRAPHY  Dmitriy Bekker has just completed his Masters Degree in Computer Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His areas of interest include FPGAs embedded systems digital signal processing and system architecture. He has coop  internship experience working at Brookhaven National Laboratory Syracuse Research Corporation NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He recen tly won in the 2006 IEEE Student Design Contest for his pro ject in autonomous vehicle navigation. He is a member of IE EE Dr Lukowiak is an assistant professor in the Computer Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His research interests are concentrated in the area of multidisciplinary projects that require modeling and hardware implementations FPGA and ASIC of data processing systems Dr Marcin Lukowi ak obtained his Ph.D in Technical Sciences from the P oznan University of Technology in October 2001 Muhammad Shaaban is an associate professor of computer engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology His research interests include high performance computing processor microarchitecture heterogeneous and reconfigurable computing Shaaban has a PhD in Computer Engineering from the University of Souther n California. He is a senior member of the IEEE Dr. Blavier first joined the JPLMkIV Team in August 1985 as a contractor from Ball Aerospace He participated in the MkIV campaigns in McMurdo Antarctica groundbased and from Punta Arenas Chile NASA DC-8 In late 1987, he started graduate work with Profs Delbouille and Dubois at the University  of Liège Belgium his research tasks included install ing the 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


