html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Information  Logistics Strategy Analysis of Current Practices and Proposal of a Framework  Barbara Dinter Institute of Information Management University of St. Gallen, Switzerland barbara.dinter@unisg.ch Robert Winter Institute of Information Management University of St. Gallen, Switzerland robert.winter@unisg.ch   Abstract Although managerial issues of data warehousing and business intelligence received considerable attention in recent years, the strategy process has not often been investigated. This is particularly true for the recently proposed, more holistic concept of information logistics. This paper discusses the state of the art of information logistics \(IL poses a framework of analysis which combines supply chain oriented decomposition with functional decomposition. As a foundation for proposed strategy components, current IL strategy practices are analyzed by means of a survey. The findings show that IL strategy seems to be linked to company size, governance type \(business line vs. business process IL organization. Supply chain oriented IL strategy components \(sourcing, delivery, portfolio attention than IL solution development and maintenance strategy components  1. Introduction  A large number of studies prove the undisputedly high relevance of business intelligence \(BI warehousing \(DWH  management. Meanwhile, analytical information systems represent an essential component of the enterprise application landscape and claim a considerable share of the IT budget. Organizations however are no longer primarily concerned with establishing analytical information systems. They rather face the challenge of continuously operating and further developing these systems according to changing business requirements and emerging potentials of IT innovations. In this regard, two crucial aspects are still widely neglected: First, a comprehensive view on the entirety of BI/DWH initiatives does not yet supersede a focused partial or project-specific view. Second neither the long investment cycles nor the infrastructure character of such systems is adequately considered If we abstract from differentiations which result from deployed technologies \(data warehouse, data marts, OLAP etc cross-project and cross-application character of corporate information supply, information logistics can be defined as follows [30]: ?Information logistics IL tation of the entirety of cross-unit data flows as well as the storage and provisioning of such data. In order to differentiate IL and operational data integration only those data flows are considered to be IL components which support decision making. If data is used for decision making in the same organizational unit where it originates, such flows do not fall under our IL definition because in this case, most of the managerial challenges do not occur 


gerial challenges do not occur Since IL usually consumes significant resources and creates significant business potentials, it has to be treated as a key business asset. Hence it is crucial to align IL with business strategy, both regarding its development and its operations. Based on Henderson and Venkatmaran?s seminal analysis [12 IT/business alignment can be understood to comprise four major perspectives: ?Strategy Execution Alignment?, ?Technology Transformation Alignment Competitive Potential Alignment?, and ?Service Level Alignment While the IT infrastructure for IL \(DWH and BI respectively years and while information supply processes have been investigated more recently [e.g. 14, 29], IL strategy is not often addressed \(see Section 2 might be due to the fact that the traditional DWH/BI understanding is often associated with \(development projects or with certain application scenarios, while strategy is usually associated with larger units, often the entire enterprise, and with a long planning horizon Based on the above IL definition and on Earl?s definition of IT strategy [5], we understand IL strategy as a concept to systematically pursue long-range enterprise-wide, aggregate goals for IL in sync with IT strategy and business strategy. According to R  egg-St  rm [22], such a concept is characterized by Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE two perspectives: The content-related perspective specifies the strategic positioning by defining goals we designate it ?positioning perspective?. A workable strategy may by no means be limited to mere statements on goals - it must also show concrete development path and ways to achieve these goals. We designate this perspective ?implementation perspective Like IT strategy and business strategy, IL strategy is challenging because a multitude of ?local? goals of specific units and functions nated, non-transparent und inhomogeneous solution islands? have to be harmonized, redundancies have to be managed, and short-term targets have to be aligned with long-term planning. Moreover, since the business environment is more or less volatile, IL strategy has to be permanently adapted to business strategy amendments, IT strategy updates, and technology innovations The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: Related work on IL strategy is discussed in Section 2. Section 3 presents our IL strategy components framework proposal. In Section 4 we examine the relevance of these IL strategy components by the means of a practitioner survey. Current IL strategy practices and their dependencies regarding parameters such as company size are identified as well. In Section 5 findings based on the survey results are presented. Section 6 summarizes our findings and outlines future research in this field  2. IL strategy state of the art  In order to assess the state of the art of IL strategy, both scientific and practitioner-oriented publications have been analyzed. As the definition of IL is quite recent and is, as a consequence, neither used by older work nor by all current researchers/practitioners, the related concepts of BI strategy more often used less often 


more often used less often used Nevertheless, due to consistency reasons, we use the term ?IL strategy? for the remainder of the article except when directly citing sources with different terminology Whilst there are several articles published by consultancies, research and advisory firms as well as software vendors, only little work can be attributed to the scientific community ? which is remarkable considering the long tradition of BI/DWH research and its relevance to companies. Although a wide range of also scientific eral exists, not much has been published on the transfer of such concepts to BI/DWH. Based on the literature research, we systemized the approaches addressing strategic issues for information logistics as follows: Practitioner-oriented contributions to IL strategy are discussed in Section 2.1. Since there is to the best of our knowledge no scientific work which explicitly addresses IL strategy, no respective section is included. Section 2.2 discusses contributions which have been developed for other areas of IT management, however are related to IL strategy. These publications have been contributed by academics as well as practitioners. Based on the discussion of related work, we specify the IL strategy research gap in Section 2.3  2.1. Practitioner approaches to IL strategy  Several practitioner publications propose IL strategy components \(e.g., [10, 11, 16 these proposals, it is evident that there is no common understanding of IL strategy \(or BI or DWH strategy respectively  warehouse strategy? by means of a list of questions which have to be answered. The strategy therefore consists of deliverables like a mapping to business strategy, scope statements, critical success factors several partial strategies \(e.g., information delivery strategy, meta data management strategy plementation roadmap. This approach is representative for a mix of artifact types \(in this case: goals partial strategies, principles and guidelines then regarded as being IL strategy components ? a popular approach in practitioner-oriented publications. According to our understanding \(cf. Section 1 it is not sufficient to differentiate certain artifact types in order to define or maintain an IL strategy We consider it much more important to differentiate content-related IL strategy components for certain portions of the IL supply chain or for certain functional areas of IL ?production? \(cf. Section 3 Gonzales [11] approaches BI strategy in sketching a so-called strategy document. He lists the issues which should be addressed by such a document: conceptual view, data architecture, technical architecture and implementation view. The document can and should be revised and extended continuously. It is meant to serve as a roadmap. Friedman and Hostmann [10] arrange the BI strategy within a BI framework and propose a list of development activities at a very high level Another type of practitioner-oriented publications addresses procedure models for the IL strategy definition process \(e.g., [3, 9, 25 usually adapt the generic strategy development process by adding practice-oriented suggestions for the IL context. Many authors point out that IL strategy should be aligned with business strategy and that Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 its goals have to be derived ?top down? \(e.g., [13, 16 25 dology is missing since in most cases the findings reflect practical experience A third class of contributions present findings about IL strategy by means of case studies and case examples \(e.g., [18, 23  2.2. Approaches addressing selected aspects of IL strategy  In addition to the aforementioned practitioneroriented work, several publications contribute specific partial issues in the context of IL. In some cases the main focus is on other topics like IT strategy, but IL is somehow covered. In other cases, publications claim to contribute to IL strategy - but a close analysis reveals that IL is not addressed exclusively Examples for related issues that address IL strategy as well are  technical issues like optimal DWH architectures e.g., [4  business-related issues like deriving an information architecture \(e.g., [24  organizational issues like governance \(e.g., [28 and/or organizational structure \(e.g., [7, 32 IL strategy is also, at least cursorily, addressed in several articles dealing with the support of business strategy or business objectives by means of BI \(e.g 21 systems \(e.g., [24  2.3. Research gap  To the best of our knowledge there are no scientific publications that address IL strategy \(BI or DWH strategy, respectively hensively. Academic contributions describe either the strategy development process \(e.g., [13 issues with limited scope. Most practitioner contributions result from single or few case experiences so that findings tend to be arbitrary or lack a systematic and comprehensive approach Hence the state of the art of IL strategy exhibits the following shortcomings 1. Missing definition for IL strategy and its scope 2. Missing systematic and transparent derivation of IL strategy components, respectively 3. Various artifact types \(such as goals, activities partial strategies, principles and guidelines understood as IL strategy components but a foundational meta model or methodology is missing 4. No clear differentiation between IL strategy and IT strategy This paper aims at contributing to closing the first and second gaps. First, we define IL strategy using different perspectives \(gap 1, cf. Section 1 we propose a set of IL strategy components based on findings from a survey \(gap 2, Sections 3 and 4  3. IL strategy components  Due to the complexity of company-wide strategy in general ? and strategy in multi-national, large companies in particular ? the decomposition into components which can be addressed separately is straightforward. Such a fragmentation aims at reducing the complexity on the one hand. On the other 


ing the complexity on the one hand. On the other hand, the alignment with IT strategy and its components might be facilitated - provided that both IL and IT strategy distinguish the same or at least closely related components. The transparency of IT/IL strategy might also be increased by such decomposition We have chosen a supply chain oriented differentiation of IL strategy components. It is adapted from Zarnekow et al.?s ?integrated information management? \(IIM  oriented differentiation of a sourcing component, a production \(making ponent seems to match our understanding of IL. The sourcing? strategy component should not be mixed up with sourcing in the sense of ?loading data from source systems?. In the following we present the IIM in more detail and derive a decomposition of the IL strategy  3.1. Supply chain oriented IL strategy components  The IIM model introduced by [31] describes the central management processes for IT service providers. These management processes are tailored to the production and use of IT products. The IIM model is based on the SCOR \(Supply Chain Operations Reference management, two elements in the IT service production supply chain ? IT service providers and IT service customers ? are distinguished [31]. In companies, business units are typically IT service customers demand side viders \(supply side ers of IT services provided by external, but maybe also internal service providers. According to the underlying SCOR model, three core processes are distinguished: ?source?, ?make? \(referring to the production The source process includes all tasks necessary for managing service supplier relations. The deliver process covers tasks necessary for the management of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 customer relationships. All tasks dedicated to the management of the IT service production are comprised in the make process. This process consists of three sub-processes \(IT solution ment, \(IT solution IT solution The coordination of source, make, and deliver processes is achieved by a govern process. Due to its general character, the govern process does not seem to be specific to IL strategy and is therefore not considered in this paper The underlying concept of a supply and service chain for IT products can be easily adapted to the context of IL. The organizational units which are in charge for IL, are usually positioned in the area of tension between IT services that have to be acquired from the outside, the production of own IT services and the interface to the service customers \(mainly the business units The processes which address primarily the positioning of IL in a supply chain \(i.e., the sourcing and delivery core processes and the portfolio sub-process are quite similar to their counterparts in IT service production. The development and maintenance subprocesses however have to be adapted to IL specifics We therefore decompose these sub-processes according from a functional perspective. The resulting subcomponents \(such as system architecture, data archi 


tecture, data modeling, etc for implementing and maintaining IL solutions. For development and maintenance, the same functional decomposition should be made since the components should be addressed in a consistent manner in both stages. The proposed framework of analysis for IL strategy is illustrated in Figure 1  Portfolio strategy Development strategy Maintenance strategy System architecture Data architecture Data modeling Hardware / Software Data quality management Meta data management Master data management Security / privacy Project management Business requirements mgt Change management Sourcing strategy Delivery strategy Make DeliverSource  Figure 1: IL strategy components framework  The adaption and use of the strategy components in the context of IL will be discussed in the following. For getting deeper insights about how such an adaption for supply chain oriented IL strategy components might look like, we interviewed IL experts about their assessment of IIM strategies. For being rather novel to the field of information management the sourcing, delivery and portfolio strategies are regarded separately in Sections 3.1.1. through 3.1.3 respectively, while the various functional views on development and maintenance strategies are being covered in Section 3.2  3.1.1. Sourcing strategy. The IL sourcing strategy specifies which IL products and services are procured by which organizational unit, from which vendors and on which scale. Not only issues like outsourcing \(or even offshoring engagement of the organization?s internal IT for specific tasks or processes should be considered. Additionally it has to be defined whether a ?make before buy?, a ?buy before make?, or some hybrid strategy is to be implemented for certain IL products and services. The specifications made in the sourcing strategy are strongly impacted by organizational constraints \(including internal resources tions Sourcing strategies can be categorized according to dimensions like internal/external, total/selective single/multiple, offshore/nearshore, components utility, software, solutions, and processes. Klesse and Winter [14] identify different IL service provider types \(depending on the vertical integration of IL and the business integration of the service provider which imply fundamentally different sourcing strategies The sourcing strategy is also influenced by company-wide guidelines regarding the vertical integration of IT and regarding ?make vs. buy? principles  


 3.1.2. Delivery strategy. The IL delivery strategy specifies the interface between service provider and service customer, i.e., all tasks necessary for organizing relationships between service providers and their IL service customers \(adapted from [31 of the delivery process is to transform the IL customer?s requests into internal requirement specifications for IL service development and IL service production. In the context of IL, therefore, especially the way of delivering IL products to business units and the IL product marketing have to be addressed. In detail the following tasks must be carried out adapted from [31  Strategic positioning in the market and competitive ranking: Adapted to IL, this means to decide if IL products/services will be offered on the external market as well \(e.g., as reports tion, the financial positioning of the IL service Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 unit \(cost/profit/investment center fined  Strategic alignment of the offering portfolio: The IL product/service portfolio should be in line with customer demands. To reach this goal, customer requirements and achievable customer benefits must be specified. As a consequence, the IL service provider relies on an active communication with business units \(i.e., service customers demands and benefits, the IL service provider team must include sufficient business know how  Pricing Strategy: Questions dealing with the price positioning, price distinction, pricing logic and product/service bundling are to be addressed depending on available budgets and the charging models \(budgets, virtual money, real money effective in the respective company  Communication strategy: The communication strategy establishes the IL service provider?s communication goals and target groups. The vision of IL to promote cross-unit thinking and data exchange aims for a similar target, i.e., to raise awareness of IL products/services in the company by means of suitable communications and marketing  Distribution strategy: It has to be specified how and through what channels IL products/services are made available to customers. This includes the fundamental decision whether IL products/services are available to the customer in push or pull mode. The pull mode attains increasing attention by business units in order to access analytical information autonomously and in time \(?self service? instead of IT unit reliance  3.1.3. Portfolio strategy. The IL portfolio strategy defines the guidelines for developing the portfolio of IL products and services, i.e., which products and services are offered \(adapted from [31 ponding strategy process addresses the following tasks  Identification of product/service segments: The portfolio strategy must identify sustainable highyield product/service segments. In particular, the requirements derived from the business strategy should be taken into account in order to match IL product/service supply and demand at the best  Evaluation and positioning of product/service 


 Evaluation and positioning of product/service segments: Usually portfolio analysis methods are deployed here. Together with possible generic strategies, they might be transferred into the IL field. On the one hand it is an option to position the IL service provider as a specialized unit for specific IL products/services. Another option is to act as a service integrator for the entire range of relevant IL applications and to act as the single contact for the business regarding all IL related issues \(?one stop? strategy  Such a way of thinking ? to provide products and services ?proactively? and without explicitly articulated customer need ? might be innovative and unfamiliar for the IL service provider, since traditional BI/DWH projects are mostly reactive and driven by customer requirements  3.2 Development and maintenance IL strategy components  As. mentioned above we have decomposed the development and maintenance from a functional perspective. Since the implementation of IL can be regarded as a specific data management project, we adapted the DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework 20] for that purpose. DAMA-DMBOK distinguishes ten data management functions which can also be observed in IL practice. In contrast to the supply chain oriented strategy components explained above there are already many contributions which address IL \(DWH/BI strategies \(e.g., [8, 26 such functional strategies here  4. Analysis  Based on the IL strategy components framework presented in Section 3, a survey was conducted in order to analyze the current realization status of IL strategy and the relevance of the proposed IL strategy components The data for the analysis was collected by means of a questionnaire distributed at an IL/DWH conference held in Switzerland in February 2008. The event was attended mainly by practitioners. These practitioners were specialists and executives with primarily large and medium-sized companies in Switzerland and Germany. Prior to the conference the questionnaire was pre-tested by experts and revised with respect to its comprehensibility. There was a dedicated time slot during the event to fill the questionnaire. The objectives, structure, and terminology used in the written survey were explained to the attendees  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 4.1. Description of the data set  The conference was attended by 226 people. Consultants and software vendors were asked to fill out the questionnaire from the viewpoint of a client of their choice. A total of 160 questionnaires were returned If a data set was incomplete or apparently inconsistent, the questionnaire was discarded. One hundred fifty one duly completed questionnaires were useful for the analysis, resulting in an overall return rate of about 66.8%. The data set is considered to constitute an adequate basis for an explorative analysis 


an adequate basis for an explorative analysis The survey was aimed at clarifying \(amongst others the following questions  What is the current realization status of IL strategy in organizations? Are there significant differences in the realization state depending on organization parameters like size, geographic focus, and industry  What organizational structures are associated with IL strategy  Which components are IL strategies comprised of  4.2. IL strategy implementation vs. company size  On the one hand, only 9.3% of all companies have already implemented an IL strategy. On the other hand, the number of companies which are not even planning to implement an IL strategy is also very low 9.9 planning \(37.1 43.7 strategy  Table 1: IL strategy implementation vs. company size Company size \(number of employees Implementation level 1-49 n=14 50-199 n=11 200-999 n=22 1000-4999 n=33 gt;5000 n=71 Not planned 9.9 Planning stages 37.1 Implementation stages \(43.7 IL strategy implemented \(9.3  As Tables 1 and 2 illustrate, the IL strategy implementation status varies with an organization?s size expressed by number of employees and by geographic focus tion among the different realization stages for the corresponding company size \(i.e., sum of each column is 100 sumption that the larger a company is, the more advanced the implementation of IL strategy is. While the majority of large companies \(more than 5000 employees 54.9 planning stages \(between 40.9% and 48.5% depending on the company size cf. Table 1  Table 2: IL strategy implementation vs. geographic focus Geographic focus Implementation level Regional n=1 National 


National n=36 International n=112 Not planned \(9.9 Planning stages 37.1 Implementation stages \(43.7 IL strategy implemented \(9.3  Table 2 exhibits the IL implementation status depending on the geographic focus \(regional, national or international one organization acting regionally \(n=1 that 100% of regional firms have already implemented IL strategy is of limited significance. The results however show that more international companies have realized IL strategy compared to the average of all companies We also analyzed the potential correlation between industry and IL strategy implementation level The IL strategy implementation level however seems to be industry independent  4.3. IL strategy implementation vs. IL organization  As illustrated in Table 3, the IL strategy implementation status and the organizational form of IL are strongly correlated. For each realization level Table 3 exhibits how many companies \(in percent have realized an organizational form according to the columns, respectively. Planning or implementing an IL strategy coincides with the establishment of one or several IL competence centers \(CCs more IL CCs are established only in 26.6% of the companies which do not plan an IL strategy, the majority of the remaining companies have already implemented IL CCs \(69.7% / 83.5% / 78.6%, depending on the implementation level Obviously there is a trend to establish several IL CCs: Companies which are currently planning or implementing an IL strategy exhibit a higher percentage \(42.9% and. 47.0 to companies which have already implemented an IL strategy \(35.7 clusions about the causality between CCs and IL Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 strategy. Some organizations have established CCs first and created an IL strategy later, and vice versa  Table 3: IL strategy implementation vs. IL organization IL organization Implementation level One centralized CC n=47 Several CCs n=62 No CC n=42 Not planned \(9.8 Planning stages \(37.9 Implementation stages 43.1 IL strategy implemented 9.2 All \(Average 


 The results of the survey illustrate that the establishment of an IL strategy comes along with changing governance structures \(cf. Table 4 without plans for an IL strategy mainly follow governance structures according to the business line organization \(46.7 ning or implementation stages with implemented IL strategy have established governance structures according to business processes \(37.5% / 51.5 50.0  Table 4: IL strategy implementation vs. governance structures Governance structures according to Implementation level business lines n=58 business processes n=63 Others n=14 Not specified n=16 Not planned \(9.8 Planning stages 37.9 Implementation stages \(43.1 IL strategy implemented \(9.2 All \(Average  4.4. Implementation of supply chain oriented IL strategy components  Referring to the IL strategy components framework proposed in Section 3, we also examined the relevance of the various components Tables 5 and 6 list the IL strategy components which have been mentioned by the respondents. For each implementation level, Tables 5 and 6 exhibit the percentage of companies which address the respective strategy component. E.g., 30.3% of the companies which are currently implementing an IL strategy address the sourcing strategy component within their IL strategy \(cf. Table 5 As depicted in Table 5, the sourcing, portfolio and delivery strategies do not get much attention in organizations so far. In average, roughly one third of the organizations \(30.4% for source strategy, 34.8 for portfolio strategy, 28.3% for deliver strategy taking into account these strategy components  Table 5: Implementation of supply chain oriented IL strategy components IL strategy components Implementation level Sourcing Portfolio Delivery Planning stages \(37.9 Implementation stages 43.1 IL strategy implemented 9.2 All \(Average  In detail, the sourcing strategy gets more or less the same attention across all organizations. Consequently there seems to be no indication that the relev 


quently there seems to be no indication that the relevance of the sourcing strategy is currently changing or will do so in future. Some differences depending on the realization status of IL strategy, however can be stated for the portfolio strategy and the delivery strategy While only 7.1% of companies which have already implemented an IL strategy, explicitly address the delivery strategy, this percentage is increasing to 41.1% in organizations which currently are in the IL strategy planning stages. One possible explanation is an increasing attention recently paid to that strategy component The relevance of the portfolio strategy also varies with the IL strategy implementation status. As for the delivery strategy organizations in planning stages address the portfolio strategy with higher than average frequency  4.5. Implementation of functionally oriented IL strategy components  It is notable that IL solution development and maintenance strategy components \(and the according functional views than the sourcing, portfolio and delivery IL strategy components \(cf. Table 6 for all IL strategy implementation stages. The percentage of companies with such strategy components ranges from 35.5% for change management to 66.2 for system architecture \(average percentages, respectively   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 Table 6: Implementation of development and maintenance IL strategy components           Sy st em a rc hi te ct ur e D at a ar ch ite ct ur e D at a m od el 


el in g H ar dw ar e So ftw ar e D at a qu al ity  m an ag em en t M et a da ta m an ag em en t M as te r da ta m an ag em en t Se cu ri ty p ri va cy  Pr oj ec t m an ag em en t  B us in es 


es s r eq ui rm en ts  m gt  C ha ng e m an ag em en t Implementation level Planning stages \(37.9 Implementation stages \(43.1 IL strategy implemented \(9.2 All \(Average In particular, the system architecture strategy component \(66.2 component \(56.6 ment strategy component \(54.4 tion. The high relevance of the system architecture strategy component might be caused by the dependencies to the overall IT strategy, which in most cases addresses system architecture issues The significance of data quality management DQM e.g., [6 Remarkably, DQM is more often addressed in companies which have already implemented an IL strategy \(71.4 55.2 over time ? which corresponds to observations in practice that quality initiatives are often not started before diverse problems arise \(either technically or on business side Meta data management, on the other hand, receives little attraction \(35.7% up to 42.4 on the IL strategy implementation status. This result is also confirmed by other surveys \(like in [19 though meta data management is a popular issue in organizations, it seems difficult to address this issue in a strategic and comprehensive way Given the importance of these issues in the CIO literature \(e.g., [17 management strategy component \(31.0% up to 42.9 agement strategy component \(32.8% up to 48.5 surprising and should be investigated in future research. Finally, organizations often do not care too much about data security issues - an according strategy component is addressed in comparably few organizations \(33.3% up to 57.1 Focusing on companies which have already implemented an IL strategy, it can be stated that these companies address the supply chain oriented IL strategy components \(sourcing, portfolio, and delivery an average extent or to an extent slightly below average. However, regarding strategy components of IL solution development and maintenance, these companies exhibit in most cases higher percentages than average \(except system architecture, meta and master data management  


 5. Findings  The analysis of the state of the art of IL strategy shows that internationally oriented, large companies are most advanced regardless of the type of industry As a consequence, practices of such companies could serve as a reference for IL strategy Regarding the organizational form, IL strategy implementation status corresponds with the establishment of competence centers \(the causality might go either way The survey confirms that the IIM components including the additional functionally oriented components pondents had a chance to propose additional components in a free text field, none were proposed A reason for the low importance of the ?sourcing component may be that IL in the examined, mostly large and international, companies is still mostly implemented without the support of outsourcing providers Regarding the functionally oriented subcomponents of the ?IL solution development and maintenance? strategy component, systems and data architecture and data quality management are regarded most important by far Our survey shows \(cf. Table 6 tecture, data architecture, data modeling, data quality management, master data management and hardware/software receive high attention, while change management, meta data management, security/privacy, project management and business requirements management receive significantly less Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 attention. While security/privacy and meta data management belong to the traditionally more technical research areas in DWH/BI so that a sufficient amount of knowledge should be available for transfer into practice, change management as well as project management and business requirements management need to be supported better by managerially oriented IL research Regarding change management, ?business-to-IT approaches to situational instrument configuration for change projects [e.g. 2] could be a starting point. For adapting such approaches to IL, in particular the multi-project, infrastructure character of IL has to be taken into account. While common change projects might be regarded one-by-one, IL change projects are closely linked to IL infrastructure. An IL change management strategy component has to consider these interdependencies Regarding project management and business requirements management, a plethora of findings and best practices could be drawn from the general IT management and system engineering areas. For adapting such approaches to IL, the ?information supply? potential character has to be taken into account. Available data is a potential that many business units might not be aware of. Supply is, unlike in traditional IT application areas, not only driven by demand, but also driven by available support potentials. An IL project management/business requirements management strategy sub-component has to consider this bi-directional character  6. Summary and outlook  Although a wide range of publications about IT strategy in general, originating from academics as 


well as from practitioners, is available, IL strategy including DWH/BI strategy IL strategies are addressed at all, either actual artifacts/documents are proposed without an integrating meta model/methodology, or the strategy making process is described without proposing specific and consistent result templates/structures Since it consumes a significant amount of resources and may constitute significant potentials for business, IL needs strategy. IL strategy must not be limited to hardware/software selection and architectural considerations, but should address the entire business scope of sourcing services, integrating acquired and self-made services into customer-oriented IL solutions, and delivering such solutions to create customer value Our survey of the state of IL strategy in practice reveals that IL sourcing, IL delivery and IL portfolio strategies are regarded as important strategy components. The larger companies are, the more international their focus is, and the more their IL is organized according to the CC model, the more components of a supply-chain oriented explicit IL strategy they are likely to have deployed The IIM model provides a suitable conceptual foundation for structuring such strategy components and also provides best practices from IT management which often can be easily adapted to IL. Regarding IL product/service development and maintenance certain functional oriented strategy sub-components are differentiated in our framework. These strategy components are adapted from an established data management functional framework in order to reflect IL specifics. While traditional, more technically oriented sub-components such as system and data architecture are covered in most companies, business oriented components like change management and project/business requirements management are covered less frequently. Additional research is necessary to develop appropriate solution components based on existing fragments and experiences Based on a more complete comprehension of IL strategy and its components, the strategy development and update process needs to be addressed in future research as well. Instead of developing and updating business strategies, IT strategies and IL strategies in independent processes, dependencies and cycles need to be addressed. A comprehensive understanding of IL strategy and respective processes may also serve as a foundation for establishing maturity models, reference models and best practices  References 1] Arnott, D. and G. Pervan, Eight key issues for the decision support systems discipline. Decision Support Systems 44\(3  2] Baum  l, U., Strategic Agility through Situational Method Construction. Proceedings of the European Academy of Management Annual Conference 2005, 2005  3] Burton, B., et al., Activity Cycle Overview: Business Intelligence and Information Management. Gartner Research G00138711, 2006  4] Chan, J.O., Optimizing Data Warehousing Strategies Communications of the IIMA, 5\(1  5] Earl, M., Management Strategies for Information Technology, Prentice Hall, New York et al., 1989  6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





