html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap  Abstract  With the rapid development of information and communication technologies, various e-health solutions have been proposed. The digitized medical images as well as the mono-dimension medical signals are two major forms of medical information that are stored and manipulated within an electronic medical environment. Though a variety of industrial and international standards such as DICOM and HL7 have been proposed, many proprietary formats are still pervasively used by many Hospital Information System \(HIS and Picture Archiving and Communication System \(PACS vendors.  Those proprietary formats are the big hurdle to form a nationwide or even worldwide e-health network. Thus there is an imperative need to solve the medical data integration problem. Moreover, many small clinics, many hospitals in developing countries and some regional hospitals in developed countries, which have limited budget, have been shunned from embracing the latest medical information technologies due to their high costs. In this paper, we propose an XML based middleware which acts as a translation engine to seamlessly integrate clinical ECG data from a variety of proprietary data formats.  Furthermore, this ECG translation engine is designed in a way that it can be integrated into an existing PACS to provide a low cost medical information integration and storage solution I. INTRODUCTION OWADAYS, e-health technologies have attracted more and more interests from medical practitioners government regulation and standard bodies and information and communication technology professionals. The digitized medical images as well as the mono-dimension medical signals are two major forms of medical information that are stored and manipulated within an electronic medical environment such as an electronics medical record \(EMR system [1] or a hospital information system \(HIS variety of industrial and international standards such as DICOM and HL7 have been proposed by international consortium bodies, many proprietary formats are still pervasively used by many hospital information system and PACS [2] vendors. Those proprietary formats virtually segregate the medical information into  isolated islands   and are a big hurdle for the efforts to form a nationwide or even worldwide e-health network. Thus there is an imperative need to integrate those segregated heterogeneous medical data [3]. Moreover, many small clinics, many hospitals in developing countries and some regional hospitals in developed countries, which have limited  Manuscript received April 23, 2009. This work was supported in part by Australian Postgraduate Awards Xuchen Li is with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering RMIT University, VIC 3000, Australia. E-mail: xuchenlee@hotmail.com Qiang Fang is with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering RMIT University, VIC 3000, Australia. E-mail: john.fang@rmit.edu.au Vuk Vosjisavljevic, is with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, RMIT University, VIC 3000, Australia. E-mail vuk.vosjisavljevic@rmit.edu.au budget, have evaded adopting the latest medical information technologies due to their high costs Health Level Seven \(HL7 Communications in Medicine \(DICOM mainstream healthcare standards recommended by many standard bodies and government agencies. For example FDA Annotated ECG [4] complies with HL7 version 3.0 which is based on XML format standard and DICOM ECG is an extension of DICOM standard to cope with one dimensional ECG waveform signals. However proprietary formats such as GE ECG format from General Electric uses its own way to store ECG signals. GE, Philips as well as HL7 v3 ECG formats are based on XML standard so it will 


HL7 v3 ECG formats are based on XML standard so it will be relatively easy to convert both GE format ECG file and HL7 v3 based ECG format into an XML based middleware DICOM standard was developed on the basis of the experiences with the American College of Radiology National Electrical Manufacturers Association ACR-NEMA 5] and was continuously being extended ever since. The aim of this standard was to create an open platform to assist the distribution and viewing of medical images, such as CT scans, MRIs, Ultrasound and ECG signal waveforms. As a standard which restricts image management in PACS DICOM, besides HL7 also becomes a focus in healthcare field. Not only medical images but ECG signal waveforms are up to DICOM standard. For example, DICOM ECG [6 is one of DICOM applications which display ECG signals complying with DICOM standard. This enables DICOM ECG format to communicate to PACS without any effort however, it also challenges the communication between HL7 and PACS. Therefore both of HL7 and DICOM standards communicating with PACS will be a macroscopical aim in medical information area In conformity with the goal of low cost, researchers at University of Trieste designed a module which called O3-DPACS to integrate with PACS. Open Three Consortium \(O3 was an evolution of PACS and it was a basic step to manage medical data and images together. In 2007, O3-DPACS was introduced as an open-source application based on Java to improve PACS by designing an interface module complying with both HL7 and DICOM standards. Although it provided a service of ECG storage function, the format of ECG [7 was only up to DICOM standard. In our research, we mainly develop a mono-dimension ECG signal convertor based on GE, Philips ECG and Annotated ECG standards in order to improve the DPACS. A new goal based on this research is to develop an open, scalable, low cost and universal new-fashioned DPACS for clinics and hospitals in metropolitans of developing countries and regional area of developed countries and to meet a new level An XML Based Middleware for ECG Format Conversion Xuchen Li, Vuk Vojisavljevic and Qiang Fang, Member, IEEE N 1691 31st Annual International Conference of the IEEE EMBS Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA, September 2-6, 2009 978-1-4244-3296-7/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE  II. METHODS This design is implemented in PHP \(Hypertext Preprocessor GE, a Philips and an Annotated ECG files are selected as a sample ECG formats and HL7 v2.3.1 is selected as the interface of the middleware and PACS in this design Besides DICOM and OPENECG, Philips and GE are also famous ECG device suppliers and their ECG devices are widely used all over the world. However GE and Philips unlike other medical device suppliers, store ECG files in their own formats. In this design, GE, Philips and Annotated ECG formats are all parsed into HL7 message format and then they can communicate with DPACS via HL7 interface Below in Figure 1 is the illustration of the design application among the network of XML based middleware, DPACS system and workstation. There are two parsing modules in this design: XML parsing module and HL7 message parsing module    Figure 1. Illustration of the design application among the network of XML based middleware, DPACS system and workstation 


based middleware, DPACS system and workstation A. System Design The middleware is designed to receive and convert GE Philips and Annotated ECG format files. There are two parser modules included: a main parser module which is created based on XML format to parse these three ECG format files and an accessorial parser module which is to convert the XML parsing modules into HL7 messages. The middleware will receive ECG data and send them using a common TCP/IP network transport protocol. The basic principal chart is shown in Figure 2 B. ECG Conversion All but sample GE ECG format has its own parsing module due to that the digital part of ECG results in GE ECG file is encoded in base64 code which is required to be transferred into a human readable string. Therefore there are two parts in GE ECG XML parsing module    Figure 2. Principal of system design of data exchange  1 for the sample GE ECG format file during the conversion Base64 encoding is one of the most popular encrypting methods which are based on binary data format. It is also used as an encoding scheme that encodes binary data Besides base64 decoding, the characters in waveforms in the sample GE ECG file are stored in two  s complement format which means the digits in waveforms are encrypted twice. If only base64 decoding module is proposed, the result will show that the units of the voltage in waveforms will be over 65,535 and they do not make any sense 2 applied in most data exchanges, is much suitable to be dealt with and it will be helpful if there is an XML to HL7 conversion library which is available. There are a few Java libraries but nothing free and easy to use. PHP and XML are powerful scripting languages with much confusion but they are not as difficult as they look like because a lot of powerful tools are in XML and PHP scripting such as XPath and XSLT. PHP with its powerful MySQL database provides PACS a convenient working platform. During the parsing process, the structure of the middleware is required to be defined. There are two main types of parsers: tree-based parsers and event-based parsers [8 Tree-based parsers: these parsers parse XML document into a tree structure, analyze the whole document and provide access to the tree elements, such as XML Document Object Model \(DOM Event-based parsers: these parsers view XML document as a series of events such as Event-based parser \(EXPAT and Simple API XML \(SAX  driven parser. When a specific event occurs, they will call a function to define it. Event-based parsers focus on the content of the XML documents but not the structure Therefore, event based parsers can access data faster than tree-based parsers EXPAT is a non-validating parser which ignores any DTDs \(Document Type Definition non-validating XML parser, EXPAT [10] is fast and small that it matches fast web applications. It must be noticed that XML documents must be well-formed otherwise EXPAT will generate an error A regular expression which is a substitute of SAX in this design is supported by nearly all major programming languages such as Java and PHP since it can change the tag values but the structure of an XML file. The method of reading and manipulating XML document is DOM, but this method needs to read the whole document and save it into a tree-based structure. This process is slow, un-efficient and 


tree-based structure. This process is slow, un-efficient and resource-overused; therefore, EXPAT parser replaces DOM. However a regular expression parser, but EXPAT and SAX, is selected as the parser in the XML parsing modules because the easier the structure of XML parsing modules is the easier to parse them into HL7 message Creating first parser module starts by generating a new DOM document object and loading the ecg.xml files into the object where a loading function has been called. During the regular expression parsing, three sample ECG files are 1692  parsed into new XML files which are similar to each other thus the parser in HL7 parsing modules can work lightly 3 this module is to parse/convert the result of XML parsing module. In this design HL7 v2.3.1 is selected as the communication interface to PACS. Findings have shown that XML can serve as an implementable message specification for HL7 v2.3.1 messages and the ability to explicitly represent an HL7 requirement in XML conferring the ability to validate the requirement with an XML parser The proposal for mapping is when parsing hits Patient Identification \(PID match is found, it will display a dummy "unmatched patient. The information can be capsulated into both ORU^R01 and ORU^W01 segments. In HL7 message segments, OBX is to be parsed because the message has PatientArchives field which is tree-base formed such as id", "firstname" and "lastname". One useful option is to let the user define a database account in MySQL which is to be used for importing source results The time fields of acquisition time and acquisition date may need to be matched to existing or extra fields. If a test request is not selected according to the requested date time one link to a dummy, "XML error" affair can be created This helps to say when someone outside forwards a result for a common patient to you. When we do not find a request for incoming data we could either make one up or just store the test results without linking them to any request. This is possible since we link them via a table in database that does not enforce direct linking inside test results. It should not be in any case because test results are wider in scope than test requests. Once the lab request is found or created, the OBXs are parsed according to their type: numeric \(NM ST SN specification of HL7 messages is shown in TABLE I In HL7 parsing module there are two functions required to be declared, one to handle the element data and one to handle the character data within the elements. This is where the code which reflects the XML file is required to be changed which is to change the element and attribute names This consists of two steps: a function to detect the start of real data and a function to detect when an element comes to an end in case to register when more than one contact is specified. For an element handler, each function is called once for each node. A switch statement is used to decide what action to take depending on which node is being processed. The parser will take care of the name and attribute variables    Figure 3. HL7 message parser module flow chart  The function "xml_set_element_handler abbreviated here by removing the other case $name statements. Furthermore a character handler is also required. Finally, the parser has been told which functions to use, read the data from the opened file and parse the contents. The data from the XML file is now held in  data  and can be accessed using a standard PHP 


 data  and can be accessed using a standard PHP statement cycle. The flow chart of for HL7 message parser module is shown up in Figure 3. At the end, HL7 parsing module completes the whole XML file by releasing the parser This principal of this method can be applied in other versions of HL7 standard [11] because there is little difference among the HL7 message standards. As is always the case with XML when processing with a validating processor using a regular expression match function preg_match", the extra blank space between elements can be removed in actual message instances TABLE I SEGMENT SPECIFICATION OF ORU_R01 MESSAGE Segment Specification MSH EVN PID OBX OBX_1 OBX_2 OBX_3 OBX_4 OBX_5 OBX_6 OBX_11 OBX_13 OBX_14 OBX_15 OBX_16 OBX_17 OBX_18 OBX_19 OBX_20 Message Header Event Type Patient Identification Observation / Result Set ID Value Type Observation Identifier Observation sub ID Observation value Units Observation Results Status ID User Defined Access Checks Date/Time of the Observation Producer  s ID Responsible Observer Observation Method Equipment Instance Identifier Date/Time of the Analysis Observation Site Segments in this table are the key segments used in ORU_R01 message to send ECG observation result. The    means optional while    means repeatable 1693  III. DISCUSSION A common network transmission protocol TCP/IP is setup and used in a LAN with one server which acted as a service class provider \(SCP as a service class user \(SCU with sample GE, Philips and Annotated ECG files are exported and tested from MAC 5500, ELI250 and PageWriter XL respectively. HL7 message codes are written into MySQL database. Two parsing modules work well EXPAT does not validate although it does read and demand external entities. If there is a well-formed parser which is suitable, EXPAT is a definitely fast one. However 


which is suitable, EXPAT is a definitely fast one. However since both parsers are really fast, this may only be of interest if one aims for maximum speed Additionally if a DOM structure is created in memory which typically needs a lot of space, the node structures will not be negligible, so that the overall speed depends not only on the raw parser speed, but on the quality of the DOM building code Another factor depending on the size of the XML file which may be important is that DOM trees typically need a lot of space in memory. This depends of course on how much markup in the document and how many accessories it has in the document. Although the XML DOM trees need notable less memory than other DOM implementation, it is not the best solution IV. CONCLUSION In this paper, an XML based middleware is designed to convert a variety of ECG formats into HL7 message formats and to integrate with an existing PACS systems which can be seen more as storage facilities than as true processing environments. In order to integrate ECG data converting module with PACS it is required to realize the conversion among ECG formats in both data type and image type. Since there are a great many of ECG formats, more format conversions will be implemented in the near future. For instance, SCP ECG, Siemens ECG and DICOM ECG convertors will also be added in the middleware Nevertheless this task is feasible and the final result will be affirmative With the evolution of HIS and PACS the task of hospital system integration tends to be easier and less expensive. Yet merely one or two researches considered the cost and convenience of medical systems and this is the most important aspect in current medial and e-healthcare environment nowadays, so that design of cheap middleware to facilitate medical system integration is the theme of this research REFERENCES 1] W. MacKinnon and M. Wasserman, "Integrated Electronic Medical Record Systems: Critical Success Factors for Implementation," in System Sciences, 2009. HICSS '09. 42nd Hawaii International Conference on, 2009, pp. 1-10 2] L. Boqiang, L. Xiaomei, L. Zhongguo, Y. Qingwei, and Y Xiaohong, "Design and implementation of information exchange between HIS and PACS based on HL7 standard," in Technology and Applications in Biomedicine, 2008. ITAB 2008. International Conference on, 2008, pp. 552-555 3] M. Struck, S. Pramatarov, and C. Weigand, "Method and system for standardized and platform independent medical data information persistence in telemedicine," in Computers in Cardiology, 2008 2008, pp. 257-260 4] W. Wesselink, N. Goga, A. J. Mooij, and R. Spronk, "Formal methods impact on ANSI standard HL7/IM - filling gaps in MSC theory," in Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2005. Canadian Conference on, 2005, pp. 1656-1659 5] B. Blazona and M. Koncar, "HL7 and DICOM based integration of radiology departments with healthcare enterprise information systems," International Journal of Medical Informatics, vol. 76, pp S425-S432, 2007 6] DICOM Supplement 30: Waveform Interchange, Nat. Elect Manufactures Assoc.: ACR-NEMA, Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine, NEMA, Washington D.C., 2000 7] P. Inchingolo, M. Beltrame, P. Bosazzi, D. Cicuta, G. Faustini, S Mininel, A. Poli, and F. Vatta, "O3-DPACS Open-Source Image-Data Manager/Archiver and HDW2 Image-Data Display: An IHE-compliant project pushing the e-health integration in the world," Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics, vol. 30, pp 391-406, 2006 8] Y. Ishitani, K. Fume, and K. Sumita, "Table structure analysis based on cell classification and cell modification for XML document transformation," in Document Analysis and Recognition, 2005 Proceedings. Eighth International Conference on, 2005 


Proceedings. Eighth International Conference on, 2005 pp.1247-1252 Vol. 2 9] P. Yinfei, Z. Ying, and K. Chiu, "Hybrid Parallelism for XML SAX Parsing," in Web Services, 2008. ICWS '08. IEEE International Conference on, 2008, pp. 505-512 10] G. Zhenghong, P. Yinfei, Z. Ying, and K. Chili, "A High Performance Schema-Specific XML Parser," in e-Science and Grid Computing, IEEE International Conference on, 2007, pp. 245-252 11] A. Schloegl, F. Chiarugi, E. Cervesato, E. Apostolopoulos, and C. E Chronaki, "Two-way converter between the HL7 Annotated ECG and SCP-ECG data formats using BioSig," in Computers in Cardiology, 2007, 2007, pp. 253-256  1694 pre></body></html 


  8 joined the University of Texas, Arlington, where he is currently a professor of the Electrical Engineering Department and the director of the Energy Systems Research Center. Prof. Lee has been involved in research on renewable energy, power flow, transient and dynamic stability, voltage stability, short circuits, relay coordination, power quality analysis, and deregulation for utility companies. He has served as the primary investigator \(PI\o-PI of over seventy funded research projects totaling over 6.5 million dollars. He has published more than forty journa l papers and more than one hundred conference papers. He has refereed numerous technical papers for IEEE IEE, and other professional organizations. Prof. Lee is a Fellow of IEEE and registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas  F.L. Lewis Fellow IEEE, Fellow IFAC Fellow U.K. Institute of Measurement Control, PE Texas, U.K. Chartered Engineer, is Distinguished Scholar Professor and Moncrief-O\222Donnell Chair at University of Texas at Arlington\222s Automation & Robotics Research Institute. He obtained the Bachelor's Degree in Physics/EE and the MSEE at Rice University the MS in Aeronautical Engineering from Univ. W. Florida, and the Ph.D. at Ga Tech. He works in feedback control, intelligent systems and sensor networks. He is author of 5 U.S. patents, 186 journal papers, 305 conferen ce papers, and 12 books. He received the Fulbright Res earch Award, NSF Research Initiation Grant, and ASEE Terman Award. Received Outstanding Service Award from Dallas IEEE Section selected as Engineer of the y ear by Ft. Worth IEEE Section Listed in Ft. Worth Business Press Top 200 Leaders in Manufacturing. He was appointed to the NAE Committee on Space Station in 1995. He is an elected Guest Consulting Professor at both South China University of Technology and Shanghai Jiao Tong University. Founding Member of the Board of Governors of the Mediterranean Control Association. Helped win the IEEE Control Systems Society Best Chapter Award \(as Founding Chairman of DFW Chapter\the National Sigma Xi Award for Outstanding Chapter \(as President of UTA Chapter\and the US SBA Tibbets Award in 1996 \(as Director of ARRI\222s SBIR Program  
 


   9 The imaging payload field of view and field of regard are used by the mission modeling capabilities to determine feature of interest access and coverage metrics 5  COTS  SPS  P ROTOTYPING  Figure 6 is an overview of the prototype work flow functionality needed for a COTS implementation of the GetCapabilities, DescribeTasking, and GetFeasibility operations of an SPS Data exchanges between a User and an SPS are specified by a schema.  The prototype em ploys Spacecraft Capabilities Tasking Definition, and Acquisition Feasibility schema They are not intended to be one-off versions of the GetCapabilities, DescribeTasking, and GetFeasibility schema.  They are sparse schemas that support the design of the data exchanges needed for employing AGI mission modeling capabilities The sparse schema is used for the first prototyping steps The schema will be brought in to compliance with the SPS Implementation Specification in the final steps of prototyping SpacecraftCapabilities The Spacecraft Capabilities Reque st schema, illustrated in Figure 6, consists of Country and Payload Type elements These are the elements define d in the spacecraft schema\222s Spacecraft Classification and Pa yload Operations elements If the User does not specify a country, the search will include all countries.  The Payload Type can be Optical Imager or Radar Imager.  If a Payload Type is not specified the search will include both imagers The User populates the Spacecraft Capabilities Request XML document and sends it to the PoC-SPS where it is received and parsed.  The PoC-SPS searches and retrieves Spacecraft Classification and Pa yload Operation data from the SOC, populates the Sp acecraft Capabilities Response XML document, and sends it to the User AcquisitionFeasibility The User receives and pars es the Spacecraft Capabilities Response XML document and selects the applicable spacecraft and imaging payloads.  The User populates the Acquisition Feasibility Request XML document and sends it to the PoC-SPS where it is received and parsed The Acquisition Feasibility Request schema, illustrated in Figure 6, contains Spacecraft Pa yload Pairing, Feature of Interest, and Acquisition Constraints The request also includes the radar scan mode from Radar Payload Operation element if th e imager is a Radar Imager A Feature of Interest is defined by a ground point A full set of acquisition constraints includes geometric temporal, environmental, and quality. Examples of acquisition constraints for an Op tical Imager are: geometric slant range elevation angle range, temporal - time of day interval, environmental - solar elevation angle range, and quality - ground sample resolution range The PoC-SPS does not incorporate ground sample resolution since it requires knowledge of the detector configuration.  For example, an optical detector would require, at a minimum, detector focal length and pixel width.  However, a User can select an imaging payload based on its ground sample resolution provided in the Spacecraft Capabilities Response XML document The PoC-SPS receives and processes the Acquisition Feasibility Request.  The spacecraft payload pairing is used to retrieve the payload field of regard from the SOC and the spacecraft orbital elements from CelesTrak, the authoritative source of NORAD or bital elements.  Then the AGI Components are activated to determine the Acquisition Feasibility Response The payload field of regard is used instead of the field of view because it corresponds to the in-track and cross-track range that the payload could be pointed The Acquisition Feasibility Response sequence contains a number of acquisition interval start and stop times and corresponding acquis ition geometry The PoC-SPS populates the AcquisitionFeasibilityResponse XML document and provides it to the User The User can request Acquisition Feasibility Responses from a number of potential DPs and select the DP that best satisfies the User needs 6  F IRE S AT S YS ML   AGI  C OMPONENTS I NTERFACE P ROTOTYPING  The interaction between the SPS operations and AGI Components is the basis of the interaction between a FireSat SysML model and AGI Components SysML is a domain-specific modeling language for systems engineering.  SysML is an extension of a subset of Unified Modeling Language \(UML\L is used to specify visualize, construct, and document the artifacts of an objectoriented software-intensi ve system.  SysML can accommodate the integration of an engineering model\222s inputs and outputs within the SysML component 
 


   10 Data Exchange Specified by Schema  OGC specifies a XML data exchange But data exchanges could be APIs  Spacecraft Capabilities Request  Country Imaging Payload Type - Optical, Radar Spacecraft Capabilities Response  Spacecraft Names and Descriptions Payload Names and Capabilities Acquisition Feasibility Request  Feature of Interest and Acquisition Constraints Spacecraft Payload Pairing Acquisition Feasibility Response  Access Intervals  PoC SPS   Orbits  Standard Object Catalog  AGI Components  Catalog Interface  Components Interface  User  Discover Sensors Formulate Collection Task Determine Feasibility  Data Exchange  Spacecraft Capabilities Request Response Acquisition Feasibility Request Response Figure 6. Work Flow Functionality Proof of Concept Prototype for a COTS SPS Sparse schemas are initially used to establish concepts for data exchange and interaction 
 


   11 The SysML model is of a hypothetical FireSat system - a space-based system for det ecting, identifying, and monitoring forest fires.   It is derived from the description in Space Mission Analysis and Design Third Edition, by Wiley J. Larson and James R. Wertz \(editors modeling is an International Council of Systems Engineering \(INCOSE\odel Based System Engineering MBSE\ilot project One of the goals of the FireSat MBSE pilot project is to develop an interface between the FireSat SysML model and STK/AGI Components The FireSat system consists of users, mission satellites communications satellites, and ground stations.  The SysML model is used to carryout trade studies of system design performance, and cost   The FireSat SysML model is created with MagicDraw 256  from No Magic and uses ParaMagic\231 from InterCAX to carry out trade studies.  Para Magic integrates Microsoft Excel, MATLAB 256 Simulink 256 and Mathematica into MagicDraw SysML models.  InterCAX is prototyping the SysML interface with AGI Components Figure 7 is an overview of how a FireSat SysML model could interact with AGI Components to carry out trade studies on FireSat system elements There are two types of interactions.  The first is a setup of the scenario elements cache c ontaining candidate spacecraft imaging payloads, relays, and ground stations.  These candidate elements are populated from the FireSat system elements pool.  This pool contains all of the FireSat elements and variations under consideration. The second interaction is a series of elements selections, accessibility queries, and coverage queries The accessibility and coverage data returned by AGI Components are used to assess FireSat measures of effectiveness.  Examples ar e area covered, revisit time memory margin, and power margin The accessibility and coverage data are also used to assess FireSat resource usage strategies, e.g 
200  Communication link availability for command uplink telemetry downlink, and image downlink 200  Memory used for image storage versus memory freed up by downlink during and after imaging 200  Power used for image collection and downlink versus power replenished during sunbathing and normal operations The current prototyping of the interaction between the FireSat SysML model and AGI Components is confined to the data exchange interface of Figure 8 200  Scenario Elements Initialization 200  Accessibility Chain Request and Response 200  Feature Coverage Request and Response The spacecraft orbit is modeled w ith the standard set of six orbital elements.  The imaging payload is modeled with rectangular or conic field of view half angles and a direction of pointing in the spacecraft re ference frame.  The field of view is modeled, instead of the field of regard, since it represents the extent of the coverage capability at any instance of time. The field of regard represents the potential coverage Accessibility chains are used to determine time intervals of accessibility through a string of serially linked scenario elements As an example, take a chain consisting of a feature of interest, a mission spacecraft, a relay spacecraft, and a ground station.  The chain capability determines the intervals of time that the missi on spacecraft is in view of the feature of interest and the rela y and, at the same time, the relay is in view of the ground station.  In view means that the lines of sights between th e elements satisfy viewing constraints A feature of interest, an imaging payload on a mission spacecraft, a relay spacecraft, and a ground station chain is more restrictive since line of si ght to the feature of interest must be within the imaging payload field of view. The satellite can image the feature of interest and downlink the image through the relay satellite during these intervals of time The feature of interest can be a point or an area.  An area is defined by a set of latitude, longitude, and altitude vertices connected by straight lines.  The AGI Components coverage capability fills in the area with grid points with a user defined spacing The user also selects among the following figure of merits for area coverage 200  Area covered, i.e. square kilometers 200  Percent of area covered 200  Area covered in each time interval 200  Minimum, maximum, and average response times 200  Minimum, maximum, and average revisit times 
 


   12 The response time is a measure of the time between a request for coverage of an area grid point and the time at which coverage is achieved The revisit time is a measure of the intervals during which coverage of a grid point is not provided, also known as coverage gaps 7  C URRENT S TATUS AND F UTURE P LANS  The SOC is currently populated with Earth observation navigation, communications and technology development spacecraft as well as ground facilities that support spacecraft launch and operations The SOC contains 59 Earth observation satellites from 20 countries.  There are 44 optical imaging satellites with a total of 116 operating modes, and 15 radar imaging satellites with a total of 66 operating modes.  An optical operating mode is a combination of sensor, spectrum projected field of view, and ground resolution.  Examples of radar operation modes are spotlight, stripmap, and scanSAR The schema has been defined for the User - PoC-SPS data exchange of Figure 6 and the Discover Sensors capability has been prototyped as A pplication Programming Interface API\e next step is to prototype all the capabilities as both as API and XML document interfaces Then, the XML document inte rface will be brought into compliance with the SPS Impl ementation Specification The prototyping of FireSat SysML and AGI Components interaction is taking place in geographically separated facilities: AGI in Exton, Pennsylvania and InterCAX in Atlanta, Georgia.  XML documents were exchanged by email during the initial prototyping.  Current prototyping incorporates program-to-program automatic exchange of XML documents, with all the prototyping at InterCAX Future prototyping will include an API passing of data The InterCAX approach to the design and implementation of FireSat SysML model and AGI Components interaction is addressed in reference 2 Figure 7. Trade Study Interaction of a FireSat SysML Model and AGI Components The FireSat SysML model intera cts with AGI Components to carryout trade studies of system design, performance, and cost Measures of Effectiveness Power Margin Revisit Time Area Covered Memory Margin Candidate FireSat SysML Model Prototype  Elements Selection Accessibility Coverage Queries Elements Setup Data Analysis Memory Usage Comm Usage Coverage Roll-Up Power Usage FireSat System Elements Pool Candidate Interface to AGI Components  Scenario Elements Cache AGI Components Cache Interface Components Interface 
 


   13  Data Exchange Specified by Schema  Data exchanges could be XML documents or APIs   Scenario Elements Initialization  Spacecrafts: Names & Orbits      - Imaging Payloads: Names & Patterns Feature of Interests: Names, Types, Boundaries & Viewing Constraints Geostationary Relay Satellites: Names and Longitudes Ground Stations: Names & Locations Scenario Start & Stop Times Feature Coverage Request  Feature of Interest Name Spacecraft & Payload Names Figure of Merit Request Feature Coverage Response  Coverage by Area and by Percent Min, Max & Average Response Time Min, Max & Average Revisit Time Coverage by Time Interval Accessibility Chain Request  Scenario Elements Accessibility Chain Response  Accessibility Interval Start & Stop Times  SysML Model Interface Prototype  Setup System Elements Determine Accessibility Determine Feature Coverage  Interface Prototype to AGI Components   Scenario Elements Cache  AGI Components  Cache Interface  Components Interface  Data Exchange  Scenario Elements Accessibility Request / Response Feature Coverage Request / Response Figure 8. Prototype Data Exchange Between FireSat SysML Model and AGI Components The data exchange will be enhanced to meet user needs 
 


   14 The schema has been defined for the FireSat SysML and AGI Components interaction of Figure 8.  The Setup System Elements and Determine Feature Coverage capabilities have been prototyped.  The next step is to prototype all the capabilities as both API and XML document interfaces 8  C ONCLUSIONS  An SPS providing a COTS GetFeasibility operation will make it easier for Users to discover sensors that fulfill their needs.  A COTS common inte rface will provide the User with one well-known set of operations for the initial discovery of candidate sensors A final selection of sensors can be carried out using the SPS operations of the individual DPs Additionally, an SPS server c ontaining a catalog of sensors can be created to provide the Users with one-stop-shopping for the initial discovery of candidate sensors The operations being developed now are for optical and radar sensors, but are extensible to Earth observation scientific sensors The design and implementation of the Magic Draw and ParaMagic FireSat SysML model interaction with AGI Components will be refined a nd then extended to other SysML tools The FireSat SysML model interaction with AGI Components proof of concept is also intended to provide the blueprint for the design and implementation of other types of SysML modeling of space based missions R EFERENCES   Docum e nt 07-014r3 at  http://www.opengeospatial.org   M a nas B a jaj, \223SLIM A C o l l a borat i v e, M odel B a sed Systems Engineering Work space for Next-Generation Complex System\224, 2011 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings, March 5-12, 2011 B IOGRAPHY  Dave Kaslow is Director, Product Data Management at Analytical Graphics, Inc.  He has thirty-seven years of experience in both the technical and management aspects of developing ground mi ssion capabilities He is also the editor of Spacecraft Digest www.stk.com/scdigest which tracks current and future spacecraft and spacecraft missions He is co-author of \223Defining and Developing the Mission Operations System\224, \223Activity Planning\224, \223FireSat\224 and 223Spacecraft Failures and Anomalies\224 in Cost-Effective Space Mission Operations He is also the author and co-author of papers for the International Council on Systems Engineering \(INCOSE Annual International Symposiums and for the IEEE Aerospace Conference A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The author gratefully acknowledges the prototyping support of colleague Sam Gilbert  
 


Eds Amsterdam: North Holland, 1997 19]  Kiger, J.I. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in the Design of Menu-Driven Interfaces," International Journal of Man-Machine Studies \(20 20]   Miller, D.P. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in Hierarchical Computer Menus," Human Factors Society 1981, pp. 296-300 21]  Newman, W. M. and Lamming, M. G., Interactive system design, Cambridge, MA, Addison-Wesley, 1995 22]  Nielsen, J. "Usability Engineering at a Discount International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction Elsevier Science, Boston, 1989, pp. 394-401 23]  Nielsen, J. Usability Engineering, Acad. Press, 1993  24]  Nielsen, J., ?Heuristic evaluation,? in J. Nielsen and R. Mack \(eds Wiley &amp; Sons, 1994  25]  Nielsen, J., ?Usability metrics:  Tracking interface improvements,? IEEE Software, Nov 1996, pp. 12-13 26]  Nielsen J www.useit.com/papers/heuristic/heuristic_list.html, 2002 27]  Nielsen, J. and Mack, R., Usability inspection methods, John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc., 1994 28]  Niemela, M., and Saariluoma, P. "Layout Attributes and Recall," Behaviour &amp; Information Technology \(22:5 2003, pp 353-363 29]  Norman, K.L. The Psychology of Menu Selection Ablex Publishing Corporation, Norwood, NJ, 1991 30]  Norman, K.L., and Chin, J. "The Effect of Tree Structures on Search in a Hierarchical Menu Selection System," Behavior &amp; Information Technology \(7 51-65 31]  Perlman, G. http://edgarmatias.com/faq/G/G-1.html 2000 32]  Reiterer, H.,  Oppermann, R. Evaluation of User Interfaces: EVADIS II -- A Comprehensive Evaluation Approach. In Behaviour and Information Technology, 12 3 33]  Schenkman, B.N., and Jonsson, F.U. "Aesthetics and Preferences of Web Pages," Behavior &amp; Information Technology \(19:5 34]  Shackel, B., ?Usability ? context, framework definition, design and evaluation,? in Human Factors for Informatics Usability, edited by Shackel, B. and Richardson, S. J., Cambridge:  Cambridge University Press 1991, pp. 21-38 35]  Shneiderman, B., "Designing trust into online experiences,? Communications of the ACM, December 2000, pp. 57- 59  36]  Shneiderman, Ben, Designing the User Interface Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction Reading, Mass., Addison-Wesley, 1986, 1987c 37]  Somberg, B.L. "A Comparison of Rule-Based and Positionally Constant Arrangements of Computer Menu Items," CHI and GI 1987, ACM, New York, New York 1987, pp. 255-260 38]  Vredenburg, K., et. al "A Survey of User-Centered Design Practice," SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, ACM, Minneapolis, Minnesota 2002, pp. 471-478 39]  Weiss, E., and Nielsen, J. "Heuristic evaluation, a system checklist, usability analysis &amp; design," Xerox Corporation 40]  Wharton, C., et. al,  ?The cognitive walkthrough method:  A practitioner?s guide,? in Nielsen, J., Mack, R Usability Inspection Methods, John Wiley &amp; Sons, 1994 41]  Whitefield, A., Wilson, F., and Dowell, J. "A Framewokr for Human Factors Evaluation," Behavior &amp Information Technology \(10:1 


42] Yu, B.-M., and Roh, S.-Z. "The Effects of Menu Design on Information-Seeking Performance and User's Attitude on the World Wide Web," Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology \(53:11 2002, pp 923-933 43]Zaphiris, P., and Mtei, L. "Depth vs. Breadth in the Arrangement of Web Links," 1997, p. Available online http://otal.umd.edu/SHORE/bs04 44]  Zaphiris, P., Shneiderman, B., and Norman, K.L Expandable Indexes vs. Sequential Menus for Searching Heirarchies on the World Wide Web," Behavior &amp Information Technology \(21:3 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


and Improving IT Governance through the Balanced Scorecard", Information Systems Control Journal, 2 70] Van Grembergen, W., De Haes, S., and Guldentops E., "Structures, Processes and Relational Mechanisms for IT Governance" in: Van Grembergen, W. \(Ed for Information Technology Governance,  Idea Group Publishing, 2004, 1-37 71] Wagner, H.-T., A resource-based perspective on IT business alignment and firm performance - Theoretical foundation and empirical evidence, ibidem, Stuttgart, Germany, 2007 72] Wagner, H.-T. and Weitzel, T., "IT Business Alignment as Governance Tool for Firm-Internal Relationship Quality: A Longitudinal Case Study",  41th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-41 Island, Hawaii, 2008 73] Webb, P., Pollard, C., and Ridley, G., "Attempting to Define IT Governance: Wisdom or Folly?",  39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Kauai, Hawaii, 2006 74] Zahra, S.A. and George, G., "The Net-Enabled Business Innovation Cycle and the Evolution of Dynamic Capabilities", Information Systems Research, 13\(2 147-150 75] Zmud, R.W., "Building relationships throughout the corporate entity" in: Elam, J., Ginzberg, M., Keen, P., and Zmud, R.W. \(Eds mission, the framework, the transition,  1988, Washington 1988, 55-82   Appendix  Table 5. Used indicators All items have been evaluated by using a 5-point Likert scale ranging from ?strongly agree? to  strongly disagree ID Item References Executive support \(ES ES1 The IT unit is sufficiently represented in our bank  s executive board. [18 ES2 Top management actively supports interplay between business and IT Strategic Alignment \(SA SA1 I am familiar with the IT strategy. [55 SA2 The IT strategy is accurately aligned with the business strategy. [22, 54, 55, 63 SA3 The IT strategy is documented. [17, 54 Governance Mechanisms \(GM GM1 There are explicit incentives rewarding good interaction with the IT unit. [51 GM2 The back office is proactively involved into IT planning. [17, 26, 55 GM3 There is a specific organizational unit or function to improve the communication be-tween  the IT and the back office 17, 26 Operational Alignment \(OA OA1 There is mutual trust and respect between IT unit and the back office. [13, 46, 64 OA2 IT and the back office regularly consult each other. [13, 17, 19 OA3 There are meetings on a regular basis between IT and back office for identifying business process improvements 17, 26, 55  OA4 There is extensive communication between IT unit and back office. [15, 17, 26 OA5 IT employees are able to interpret business related problems and develop solutions. [13, 60  64 Process Performance \(PP PP1 The configuration of our credit process allows us to sustain a competitive advantage in the  relevant market 36 PP2 The configuration of our credit process allows us to differentiate us from the competi-tors  in the relevant market 36, 42 PP3 Compared to our competitors, the operational efficiency of our loans process is higher. [23  27 PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  


PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  5 much worse 71 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





