html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">  1 Spatial Planning for Robotics Operations  Thomas M Crockett Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA  91109 818-429-7439 crockett@jpl.nasa.gov Mark W Powell Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA  91109 818-653-8012 mpowell@jpl.nasa.gov  Khawaja Salman Shams Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA  91109 818-634-1928 ksshams@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract  The rich variety of unmanned robotics at NASA  s Jet Propulsion Laboratory sets the bar for innovations in activity planning. 123  The Operations Planning Team at JPL, co-winner of the NASA Software of the Year award in 2004, is continuously working to enhance the capabilities and user experience for long term and realtime planning operations. Spatial Querying improves the efficiency of planetary surface operations. It can empower scientists by giving them the ability to search for all imagery containing a particular point of interest Furthermore, these queries can help maximizing the amount of science by reducing the amount of redundant imagery before planning to acquire new images of a location planners can check if they already have sufficient data for it  In this paper, we describe our use of R-Trees, along with novel 3D to 2D projections, to delivery spatial querying capabilities to the operators and scientists of MER and MSL mission. Aside from covering the implementation details we discuss a key aspect of our software: the user interface To make the interface effective, we stressed low latency and fast computations on the server side to emphasize instant gratification from the user  s perspective. Furthermore, we leveraged the interfaces that our customers are already familiar with to make the capability intuitive to utilize   TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION.................................................................1 2. BACKGROUND INFORMATION..........................................2 3.  MAESTRO AND USER-INTERFACE...................................2 4.  MAESTRO SPATIAL QUERY ENGINE ...............................4 5.  CLIENT-SERVER INTERACTION ......................................5 6. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE RESEARCH..........................5 REFERENCES ........................................................................6 BIOGRAPHY ..........................................................................6 1 1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1308, Version 4, Updated 2008:11:02 3 This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 1. INTRODUCTION The MER rovers have driven a combined total over 20 kilometers on the surface of mars, and they often cover over 


kilometers on the surface of mars, and they often cover over a 100 meters within a single sol \(Martian day  voyage of each rover spans across a period of nearly half a decade, which ends up requiring operators and scientists to have a deep knowledge of the mission timeline. They often need to know, off-hand, where the rover was on each sol Obviously, this approach does not scale for long missions which require an efficient way to inquire about data acquired and plans made at a particular location. It quickly becomes untenable to remember the sol for each location that the mission has covered. We introduce a new approach that enables users to express queries with spatial constraints this obviates the prerequisite knowledge of the mission timeline and enhances mission operations and scientific observation efficiency. Furthermore, it can minimize redundant imagery of the same target. Lastly, a spatial search can be very versatile in quickly gathering all the acquired images of the area of interest from different perspectives or rover locations Previous state of the art work in this arena enabled scientists to express powerful queries over a large dataset of Mars data for various purposes [2,3]. However, operators frequently need to search for data from a specific region of the planetary surface. Moreover, scientists may be interested in finding all images of a particular area of scientific interest. Meanwhile, rover planners may be interested in finding rover sequences used to tackle a problem at a previous location.  False negatives to such queries can result in acquisition of redundant data, which is a costly waste of resources of the rover and entails potential missed science opportunities We have developed an approach that adapts location-based search technology and applies it to planetary science data to support spatial queries for mission operations software Traditionally, we have limited our search index to various structural constraints such as sol it was acquired, the instrument used, the position from which it was acquired This paper presents our use of an elegant algorithm that builds on top of an R-tree [5] to index multi-dimensional data of the Martian surface. This is the first time that spatial querying technology has been adapted to the domain of operations planning of a planetary surface mission. We are 2 the first ones to provide a responsive location-based search capability, along with other structural constraints, for the Mars rover mission data. The technology has been developed and delivered to the MER and MSL missions and it is currently being used in the operations of MER Spirit and Opportunity MER mission is capable of providing spatial query results in less than 100 milliseconds from a shared server.  In this paper, we present our spatial database, the interaction with the client software, and the user-interface on the client side  2. BACKGROUND INFORMATION In planetary surface operations, specifically that of Mars rovers, the Rover Motion Counter \(RMC position of the rover where it was stationary. During the missions, we have acquired tens of thousands of RMC indices, and these indices play a crucial role in our algorithm described in Section 4 Our approach takes advantage of several assumptions that we can safely make about the Mars missions that we serve First, the low-resolution cameras on the rover, along with planetary curvature, make it hard to recognizably see anything beyond a few hundred meters. Second, the rover traverses a fairly straight path in the overall mission rather than a circular one.  Any point on the surface of Mars should only be visible in a limited set of imagery acquired from within a few hundred meters of the point. The set is limited due to the path that the rover has taken R-Trees serve a major role in our algorithm, so it is 


R-Trees serve a major role in our algorithm, so it is important to have a brief discussion of how they work Traditional databases \(relational and textual processing queries that impose only single-dimensional constraints.  R-Trees were invented to address the limited capabilities of existing data-structures and single dimensional database indexes [5]. R-Trees help solve queries like  find all libraries within 5 miles of a particular point-of interest  Traditional data-structures like hashtables are not sufficient for such queries because they are not efficient for range based searches, while B-Trees only index information in single-dimensional space [5]. An RTree is basically a multi-dimensional extension of a B-tree B-Trees can efficiently perform range queries due to their organizational structure.  R-Trees are height balanced, and they keep the indexed records in the leaf nodes. Each nonleaf and non-root node contains between m and M numbers of nodes, where m and M are tunable for specific applications.  An R-Tree implementation attempts to ensure that each leaf node contain the smallest rectangle enclosing the inserted polygon. The B-Tree like approach gets the RTree with N-nodes to have a height of at most |log m N| -1 The R-Tree can be made even more efficient if all of the inserted points are known in advance using one of the many packing techniques. In our implementation, we employ a Sort Tile Recursive \(STR  While the R-Tree is a great dynamic structure that can tolerate inserts and deletions at runtime, they can be optimized further if packed efficiently. The original R-Tree approach suffers from a high load time, inefficient space utilization, and a tree that is not fully balanced for optimal searching [6].  The STR algorithm can be generalized to multiple dimensions, and it recursively works its way down to two dimensions. For the base case of two dimensions, the algorithm determines the number of leaf pages P, and calculates its square-root S, to determine the number of horizontal and vertical slices to divide the two-dimensional rectangles. Subsequently, the algorithm sorts the rectangles by the x-coordinates and divides them into S vertical slices followed by sorting the resulting rectangles by their ycoordinates and dividing them into S horizontal slices. This approach results in each leaf node, except the last one having exactly M rectangle entries, thereby making the RTree optimally balanced and significantly more efficient in space utilization. The major drawback of the STR algorithm is that it requires a priori knowledge of all the rectangles in the database 3.  MAESTRO AND USER-INTERFACE We have integrated this capability within the Maestro for MER and MSLICE for MSL software suites. For the rest of the paper, we will describe our integration with MSLICE Our users thrive on their interactions with the program being very responsive. Integrating with our existing planning tools also enabled us to extend the search interfaces that the scientists and planners are accustomed to We basically used the functionality that users are accustomed to and gave them the capability to express and execute spatial searches We have placed heavy emphasis on making the search interface in MSLICE intuitive and extremely responsive. On the local JPL network, the round trip time for queries between the server and client is usually less than 100 milliseconds. Remote users on a wireless network usually face another 50 milliseconds of network latency. The application allows users to put structural constraints on their queries. For instance, they can specify that they are only interested in images from a particular sol or instrument Most importantly, the application has an interface similar to 3  Figure 3-1. Users interactive with the spatial query engine while viewing an image 


Figure 3-1. Users interactive with the spatial query engine while viewing an image  Figure 3-2. Users interactive with the spatial query engine while viewing the map 4 a web search engine that allows users to enter free-text style queries to express what they are looking for. Furthermore users can annotate any of the images or plans with their own tags.  This capability makes it easy to trace one  s way back to interesting instruments, and it allows for a revolutionary level of collaborative environment that ensures a user can leverage tags and annotations from others We wanted to ensure that expressing spatial queries has an intuitive interface that becomes second nature to the users Additionally, we wanted the users to experience the same level of performance with spatial searches that they have been experiencing with other querying capabilities. Users are able to express spatial queries while getting a bird  s eye view from what we call the Map View, illustrated in figure 3-2. The Map View is an interactive image view that registers surface positions and overlays surface imagery on top of satellite imagery. Through the map view, users can pinpoint interesting areas on the mission timeline by visualizing the entire journey of the rover. Furthermore while users are browsing any imagery from the rover, they can simply click on a point-of-interest and ask for all images that contain the specified point. This capability results in instant gratification.  After executing a spatial search, users can apply additional criteria to narrow their result set. They can apply all of the structured queries they are used to working with before spatial queries, and they can also add free-text based criteria to quickly specify what they are looking for Similar to the map view interactions, users can also interact with the spatial query engine while viewing an image or a mosaic. In the image view, the users are used to creating points of interest in order to obtain range data and to tag the location. After a user selects a point of interest on the image, she can click on a spatial query link that will search for all the images that contain that point of interest. The results are sorted in order to proximity, and they are displayed in a side view along the image that the user is viewing One of the key attributes of any search engine is the ranking scheme used to sort the results. By introducing a paradigm of mixing spatial queries with other constraints, we allow the users to express complex queries that call for a prudent ranking scheme. Like Google, and other search engines, we sort our rankings through scores assigned by a customized scoring scheme. When spatial queries are involved, the most important aspect of the score is the distance of the point from the rover  s position for each image. Therefore, images taken from a location in proximity of the point are automatically ranked higher than images taken from a farther distance. Secondly, the recency of the image is also an important aspect of our ranking schemes. In majority of the cases, the end-user is interested in the most recent image for planning purposes. We are currently investigating a scheme that scores bases on temporal locality with respect to the image used to initiate the search as a scoring aspect Lastly, the final aspect of our ranking scheme  strictly for breaking ties  is by the instrument used to acquire the image 4.  MAESTRO SPATIAL QUERY ENGINE Our spatial database is an R-Tree index that is packed using the STR algorithm. As mentioned in the Section 2, we have to be aware of all of the RMCs encountered so far before building the optimal R-Tree.  New RMCs are introduced fairly rarely, and they are added in batches, perhaps once per Sol.  Since our dataset is small, we can easily rebuild the R-Tree with the STR algorithm in order to provide a better user experience through faster query results. As a 


user experience through faster query results. As a benchmark, it takes merely a few seconds to rebuild our entire index in an optimally packed R-Tree through the STR algorithm Mars rovers are sedentary and spend most of their time taking images at stationary locations. One of the most intuitive ways to group the downloaded data products is by the RMC at which the image was taken.  Furthermore, we have come up with an elegant approach to use the RMCs for spatial queries. The spatial index consists of all the locations where the rover has remained stationary. A request to the server contains two parameters: a 3D point and a radius r All resulting images must contain the point within the specified radius.  Images taken from a distance farther than specified radius would not contain enough fidelity to be useful.  Upon receiving a request, our application server fires a query to the spatial database asking for all RMCs within a 2-dimensional envelope of the point-of-interest The envelope ahs a center at the point-of-interest, and it expands r in each direction Our spatial query quickly gives us all the RMCs that match our criterion. This inexpensive step reduces the potential result set significantly. Subsequently, we look in our traditional database for all images acquired at the candidate RMC positions. We then iterate through the list of images to find out if they contain the particular point-of-interest. This check has a low computational impact.  Basically, we use the camera model of the image to compute 3D to 2D and range projection, which requires few multiplies and dot product computations. If the resulting range is pointing in the positive X, Y, and Z direction, we know that the camera is at least looking in the direction of the point of interest The last check is to ensure that the X and Y range values are within the dimensions of the image. At this point, we have verified if the image contains the specified point-of-interest Our approach appears to have few drawbacks, some of which are nonissues. First of all, we rely on the users 5 desires to find images that contain the area in a visible fashion with high fidelity. However, if the users are interested in all images of a point regardless of the distance from which the image was acquired, we have to considerably expand our search radius. Expanding the search radius is expensive because it deteriorates the effectiveness of our initial culling process: finding all RMCs within the specified radius of the point-of-interest Once the radius gets large enough, we get too many perhaps all to iterate through each of the data products to deduce if it contains the point.  We mitigate this issue by artificially limiting the search radius on the server to 300 meters. We are able to safely limit the search radius due to the lack of resolution on our camera and planetary curvature, which combine to ensure that points beyond a few hundred meters are not visible in our images. Secondly, if there is a point of interest around which the rover spent many days and many RMCs, it would appear that even for very small radii, our first culling step would not be very effective as it would result in too many RMCs and thus too many potential data products.  However, with very few exceptions, the rover usually drives in a fairly straight path towards its destinations without circling around regions. Our approach benefits from this assumption in all cases because even around these areas of exceptions, there are only a limited number of RMCs compared to the entire mission and our spatial database reduces our search scope to these limited RMCs.  This is mainly due to the fact that for the majority of the mission, the rovers remain on course and spend little time, in the big picture, at specific locations 5.  CLIENT-SERVER INTERACTION We expose our spatial querying capabilities to the clients 


over a web interface that runs on HTTP. This style allows us to serve spatial queries to programs written in a variety of modern languages \(from shell scripts to C, C++, and Java serve these queries to MSLICE, a Java application However, we are able to share this capability with other teams at JPL that are involved in the planning cycle of the mission.  For instance, rover drivers and sequence engineers can connect to our tool to verify if images already exist of a particular point-of-interest or to locate an annotate region that a science member may want to point to 6. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE RESEARCH Spatial queries introduce a new paradigm of searching in a mission planning and science environment. Adding this capability to the existing applications allows our users to leverage existing operating knowledge of the software to use this capability. Furthermore, our fast response time in the order of a 100 milliseconds, along with intuitive interfaces, provides a great end-user experience. Spatial queries help scientists make long-term observations on areas of scientific interest by allowing them to view all related images. Furthermore, enabling scientists to locate all the images acquired of a particular point can significantly reduce the amount of redundant imagery acquired of the same area. Therefore, spatial queries can enable the operations planners to reduce load on the rover  s resources and allow for additional valuable science Our elegant algorithm for spatial querying on Mars surface missions takes advantages of the characteristics of the rover mobility to significantly reduce the potential dataset of matching images. We apply some cheap computation on the resulting dataset to get a dataset of all images that contain the points of interest. A key aspect of our algorithm is that it does not rely on the integrity of range data in our images and it provides robust results with no false negatives In the near future, we would like to investigate even more efficient approaches to do spatial queries.  We are in the process of investigating other data structures and packing algorithms that we can use to store our spatial data. We would like to test R-Trees without the STR algorithm or quad-trees so that we can dynamically add spatial points to our index without having to rebuild it. Rebuilding the index is fast because we are limiting our index to only contain RMCs, but if we wanted to add additional points in the index, we cannot rebuild in the index in a scalable fashion for every change. Once we have a more dynamic index, we can investigate further optimizations as well. For instance we would like to consider inserting a frustum for each image in the library into the spatial database. Having a frustum for each image will help simplify our algorithm and allow us to fully use the multi-dimensional capabilities in the database by indexing 3D points.   The querying capability built on algorithms described in this paper has been delivered to MER and MSL missions, where they serve a key role in operations 6 REFERENCES 1] Jeffrey Biesiadecki, Mark Maimone  The Mars Exploration Rover Surface Mobility Flight Software:Driving Ambition  IEEE Aerospace 2006 2] Mark Powell, Thomas M. Crockett, Jason M. Fox, Joseph Joswig, Jeffrey S.  Norris, Khawaja Shams, Recaredo Jay Torres  Delivering Images for Mars Rover Science Planning  IEEE Aerospace 2008 3] Fox, Jason M., Norris, Jeffrey S., Powell, Mark W., Rabe Kenneth J., Shams, Khawaja  Advances in Distributed Operations and Mission Activity Planning for Mars Surface Exploration  AIAA SpaceOps 2006 4] T. Sellis, N. Roussopoulos, and C. Faloutsos  The R+Tree: A dynamic index for multi-dimensional objects   


Tree: A dynamic index for multi-dimensional objects   VLDB 1987 5] Antonin Guttman  R-Trees: A Dynamic Index Structure for Spatial Searching  Proc. 1984 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data 6] Scott T. Leutenegger, Jeffrey M. Edgington , Mario A Lopez  STR: A Simple and Efficient Algorithm for RTree Packing  Institute for Computer Applications in Science and Engineering \(ICASE 7] Mars Rovers home page: http://marsrovers.jpl.nasa.gov BIOGRAPHY Thomas Crockett started working at JPL in 2005 after completing his Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science at the University of Arizona, where he discovered an interest in graphics. He joined the Maestro team in 2006 and began developing advanced image browsing capabilities that would be used by the MER Phoenix and MSL missions to view and smoothly navigate around very large images. Recently he has been extending this work to tackle the problem of mapping and spatial browsing of the science data collected by a mission  Mark Powell is a Senior Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA since 2001. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering in 2000 from the University of South Florida, Tampa. His dissertation work was in the area of advanced illumination modeling, color and range image processing applied to robotics and medical imaging and received the award for Outstanding Dissertation from the University of South Florida. At JPL his area of focus is science data visualization and science planning for telerobotics. He supported the 2004 Mars Exploration Rover \(MER Coordinator, facilitating the timely downlink and analysis of science data from the rovers. He received the NASA Software of the Year Award for his work on the Science Activity Planner science visualization and activity planning software used for MER operations.  He also received the Imager of the Year award from Advanced Imaging Magazine for his work on Maestro, the publicly available version of the Science Activity Planner for MER.  Mark has been programming in Java and loving every minute of it since it was first used in web browsers in 1995.  He, his wife Nina, and daughters Gwendolyn and Jacquelyn live in Tujunga, CA  Khawaja Shams joined the Planning Software Systems group at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2005, and he has since been focused on development of OSGI-based web services to enable Maestro's rich client applications. His prior work experience includes employment at Malin Space Science Systems and the Internet Protocol Team at Nokia Mobile Phones. Khawaja earned a Master's degree in Computer Science from Cornell University, and a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science from University of California, San Diego.  Khawaja is currently pursuing a PhD at University of Southern California, where he is advised by Professor Maja J Matari? at the Interaction Lab. Khawaja  s research interests include Human Robot Interaction, Multi-Robot Systems, and ReSTful web applications    7 


7  pre></body></html 


10   The function values needed to interpolate data or otherwise develop prelters are 1\(1 1 0 1 1  1 2  1  1 2  3 s 3 10 and !2  1 2   4 s 6 5  Orthonormal basis elements for the left and right boundaries of a data set are constructed by keeping the right and left half of !1, respectively, and normalizing; that is O1 s 2!1"[0>1] and !U1 s 2!1"[1>0 respectively. Their decomposition lters reect this normalization in all but the entries corresponding to dilated versions of these functions The multiwavelet 1> #2 the GHM scaling vector is illustrated in Figure 11 and satises the equation \(5 trix coecients g2 


0 120 0 s 2 20  g1  3 s 2 20 9 20 3 10 9 s 2 20  g0 s 2 2 9 20 0 9 s 2 20  g1  3 s 2 20 1 20 310 s 2 20   Only truncated and normalized versions of the symmetric #1 are needed at the boundaries O1 s 


2#1"[0>1] and #U1 s 2#1"[1>0 on the left and right, respectively 1 #2 Figure 11: The GHM multiwavelet Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 2.2 Approximation-Order-4 Basis The groundwork for this basis was laid in [2 although the scaling vector was not explicitly constructed in that paper. The scaling vector  1> !2> !3> !4 approximation order 4. The Y0 space that it generates also includes the spline space S03\(Z one may notice that !2 and !3 are quadratic and cubic polynomials, respectively, restricted to [0> 1 and normalized 1 2 3 4 Figure 12: An approximation-order-4 scaling vector The scaling vector satises the dilation equation \(3 ing vector. However, the four 4  4 matrix coecients are too large to provide here, and are available instead from the author?s website www.wku.edu/?bruce.kessler, as are the function values needed to interpolate data or otherwise develop prelters As before, orthonormal basis elements for the left and right boundaries of a data set are constructed by keeping the right and left half of !1 respectively, and normalizing; that is O1 s 2!1"[0>1] and !U1 s 2!1"[1>0 respectively. Their decomposition lters reect this normalization in all but the entries corresponding to dilated versions of these functions The multiwavelet 1> #2> #3> #4 ated with this scaling vector is illustrated in Fig 


ure 13, with the matrix solutions to the dilation equation \(5 Again, only truncated and normalized versions of the symmetric #1 are needed at the boundaries O1 s 2#1"[0>1] and #U1 s 2#1"[1>0 on the left and right, respectively 1 2 3 4 Figure 13: The multiwavelet associated with the scaling vector in Section 2.2 2.3 Dierentiable Basis with Approximation Order 4 Each of the bases shown in the previous sections include a continuous spline space, but the Y0 space in each case also contains much more than that With each basis, Y0 will also contain functions that look like the left and right halves of the !1 function in that particular scaling vector. Hence, each approximation space, even at the lowest resolution will contain functions that have at least one nondierentiable ?corner?. This may not be desirable Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 especially if the points of interest in the original signal happen to fall on these corners at every resolution \(for example, at the midpoint of the data set basis \(i.e., has no corners A scaling vector was developed by the author in 6] that has approximation order 4, and generates a space that contains the spline space S13\(Z is, the space of piecewise cubic polynomials that are both continuous and dierentiable at the integer knots. This scaling vector 1> !2> !3> !4 is illustrated in Figure 14. As with the basis discussed in Section 2.2, the matrix coecients that satisfy the dilation equation \(3 are available on the author?s website, as are the function values needed to interpolate data or otherwise develop prelters. Left- and right-hand versions of both !1 and 2 can be created to handle bounded data 


1 !2 3 !4 Figure 14: A digerentiable approximation-order-4 scaling vector The multiwavelet 1> #2> #3> #4 ated with this scaling vector is illustrated in Figure 15, with the matrix solutions to the dilation equation \(5 The website also contains the matrices needed for lter construction of the left and right boundary wavelets 1 #2 3 #4 Figure 15: The multiwavelet associated with the scaling vector in Section 2.3 3. Pattern Matching The premise behind using wavelets for pattern matching is that the wavelet decomposition for the pattern for which you are searching and for the pattern added to data sampled from a polynomial of degree less than the approximation order of your scaling vector will be equal. For example, the wavelet decompositions for both data sets shown in Figure 16 will be identical when using either of the bases discussed in Sections 2.2 and 2.3. It is necessary that the pattern not be in the lowest-resolution approximation space, so that it will not have a wavelet decomposition with only 0 coecients. This problem is rare, but if it occurs, it is remedied by either continuing the decomposition to an even lowerresolution space, or by using a dierent scaling vector of lower approximation order In most cases, the pattern will not be overlaid upon perfectly polynomial data, and so, the wavelet decompositions will not match exactly. However, if the pattern is prominent enough in the signal so that the root mean square error \(UPVH new decomposition {gl} when compared to the decomposition {gl } of the original pattern, as dened Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 by UPVH vuuuut QX l=1 gl  gl Q 


is suciently small, then the pattern will still be detected Figure 16: Pattern data \(top data obscured by cubic polynomial data bottom When using a single scaling function and wavelet are used in applications, each successively smoother approximation of the data stretches the support of the basis functions, eectively drawing more data from outside the region where the pattern actually occurs. By using the scaling vectors and multiwavelets mentioned in Section 2, we are able to analyze data on a bounded region, and ignore data outside of that region 3.1 When to Use Wavelets Wavelet decompositions can be used to nd patterns in any type of data, but there are no advantages to using them for exact pattern matching. For example, if searching for the word ?the? in a text le or in packet data, we have to search for the exact ASCII values 116, 104, and 101 in succession Changing those values, even by a constant amount changes the word. Also, to apply the wavelet bases mentioned in Section 2, we need 2q + 1 data values for some integer q A 1 for the DGM and the approximation-order-4 basis, and 2q+2 data values for some integer q A 1 for the basis in Section 2.3 so we would have to pad the target pattern with spaces. This type of search can be conducted much more eciently using other search methods, such as Bloom lters, etc However, for quantitative data like packet trac dependent upon time, multiwavelets have the potential to spot patterns that are not immediately noticable to the human eye, such as in the bottom graph of Figure 16. The following section gives an example of how multiwavelets can be used to detect a ?low and slow? pattern caused by data exltration 3.2 Trac Analysis Example Suppose that we have a corrupted computer and we are aware through previous experience that this particular piece of malevolent code tends to sneak? data out under the ?TCP? protocol in the following pattern a single packet of size 256 bytes, followed approximately 1 second later by another packet of size 512 bytes one second later, four packets of size 256 bytes are sent with a quarter second gap between 


the packets, and one quarter-second later, three packets of size 512 bytes are sent, followed one-quarter second later by one packet of size 256 bytes The accumulated bytes sent with respect to time in seconds are shown in Figure 17 Total Bytes Seconds Figure 17: Accumulated bytes for the example pattern The packets described above have been inserted into a set of network trac packet collected from the author?s laptop over roughly 4 minutes of usage starting at w = 240 seconds. The total accumulated outgoing bytes are illustrated in Figure 18. To apply the basis looking for this specic pattern, we Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 accumulate the bytes on quarter-second intervals and generate a wavelet decomposition for a sliding 4-second window, which is compared to the original pattern?s decomposition with the UPVH. The UPVH for the dierent starting times are shown in Figure 19. Note the low value of the UPVH at w = 240 seconds, indicating a close match to our target pattern at that time Total Bytes Seconds Figure 18: Accumulated outgoing bytes of a sample usage period plus the packets in our pattern UPVH Seconds Figure 19: UPVH values \(less than 50 blocks of data with digerent starting times Note the low value of the UPVH at w = 240 seconds, indicating a close match to our target pattern at that time In fairness, this method of nding patterns has many of the same weaknesses found in other signature-matching approaches. The pattern has to be known ahead of time, which means that this detection scheme would still be vulnerable to rst-time attacks. Also, a completely innocuous data ow occurring with very similiar timing and quantities as our pattern will still cause a low UPVH value, possibly causing a false-positive alert. We do claim 


however, that we have a greater capacity for nding patterns in quantiable amounts that are obscured by standard network trac. Also, we can adjust the sensitivity of the search without changing the signature for which we are searching, by adjusting the threshold of the UPVH?s for which an alert is issued. Thus, statistical techniques and adaptive learning can be used to help develop optimal threshold levels for a particular pattern 4. Conclusion Wavelet analysis holds an as-of-yet untapped potential for analyzing usage patterns in network trac ows, due to their ability to lter out data up to a given approximation order. Neither simple character searches nor Fourier analysis has this capability. Also, while Fourier analysis generally gives only frequency information within an analysis window, wavelet analysis gives some amount of both frequency information and the location of that frequency activity. The additional information comes at no additional computational costs, since the bases are generally applied by convolving matrix lters over the data \(repeated matrix multiplication over sliding blocks of data tiwavelet bases introduced in this document should prove to be particularly useful in pattern-matching applications, due to their short support \(that is, non-zero only over a small interval the inclusion of splines in the approximation spaces instead of just polynomials, and the ability to use them on time series with left and right boundaries The author is currently working with computer scientists at the CyberDefense Lab \(CDL at Western Kentucky University to develop software that will utilize these bases in network security, intrusion-detection, and data-extrusion applications. Once developed, we will study the eectiveness of this type of analysis in detecting malicious behavior as compared to the more commonly used techniques, with the hope of improving detection capabilities while maintaining a low false-positive rate. The software will initially be tested in the CDL?s sandbox while running attacks from its attack library with various background usage scripts being implemented, but will eventually move to less controlled network environments Acknowledments: This work supported in part by the NACMAST consortium under contract 


EWAGSI-07-SC-0003 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References 1] C. K. Chui and Q. T. Jiang, ?Multivariate Balanced Vector-Valued Renable Functions?, in: V. W. Haussmann, K. Jetter, M Reimer, and J. Sto¨ckler \(Eds velopment in Multivariate Approximation, vol 145, Birkha¨user Verlag, Basel \(2003 102 2] G. Donovan, J. Geronimo, and D. Hardin Intertwining Multiresolution Analyses and the Construction of Piecewise Polynomial Wavelets?, SIAM J. Math. Anal. 27\(6 1996 1791?1815 3] J. Geronimo, D. Hardin, and P. Massopust Fractal Functions and Wavelet Expansions Based on Several Scaling Functions?, J. Approx. Theory 78:3 \(1994 4] D. Hardin and B. Kessler, ?Orthogonal Macroelement Scaling Vectors and Wavelets in 1-D?, Arab. J. Sci. Eng. Sect. C \(Theme Issue: Wavelet and Fractal Methods in Science and Engineering: Part 1 2003 5] D. Hardin and D. Roach, ?Multiwavelet Prelters I: Orthogonal Prelters Preserving Approximation Order s  2?, IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II: Analog Digital Signal Proces 45\(8 1998 6] B. Kessler, ?An Orthogonal Scaling Vector Generating a Space of F1 Cubic Splines Using Macroelements?, J. Concrete Appl. Math Special Issue on Wavelets and Applications 4\(4 2006 7] J. Lebrun and M. Vetterli, ?Balanced Multiwavelet Theory and Design?, IEEE Trans. Signal Process. 46\(4 1998 8] J. Lebrun and M. Vetterli, ?High Order Balanced Multiwavelets?, in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech, Signal Processing ICASSP May 1998 1532 9] J. Lian, ?Armlets and Balanced Multiwavelets Flipping Filter Construction?, IEEE Trans Signal Process. 53\(5 2005 10] I. W. Selesnick, ?Balanced GHM-like Multiscaling Functions?, IEEE Signal Process. Lett 6\(5 1999 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207–216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Int’l Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Int’l Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





