html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Managing on  Purpose: A Practitioner?s Goal for a Recalcitrant Bank Bryan Frew Bryan Frew &amp; Associates, Sydney. Australia bryan@thefrews.net   Abstract Business Process Management \(BPM management discipline, can only deliver value once its principles and practices are effectively integrated into an organization  s business operating model This paper analyses the application and evolution of a holistic model of the BPM management system in a large Australian bank. The model was applied to operationalize the principles and practices of BPM within a prevailing culture of reactive management The contributions of this paper are to: \(1 describe extensions to the popular BPM implementation models; \(2 organizational change management issue and an unconventional approach to addressing this issue and \(3 the  expert  engagement model employed between the BPM support unit and the business 1. Introduction The definition of BPM is important to the context of this paper. However the definition is more important for organizations hoping to derive benefits from its implementation. There are many meanings assigned to the acronym BPM. The problem is aggravated by the marketing departments of large software vendors putting the latest spin on their products. [1 Until Gartner published their Research Note in August 2006 [1], the popular definition and approach to BPM was via the implementation of improvement projects. The popularity of the Six Sigma methodology has helped to perpetuate this ?myth later dispelled in the Gartner Research note: ?BPM is not a project. Process improvement is a continuous outcome from the ongoing management of the business process? [1 BPM is not a project nor is it a technology [1 BPM is a management discipline that provides governance in a business process environment, with the goal of improving agility and operational performance.?[1]. This is the definition used in this paper BPM is an important advance in management science. Combined with the emerging technology of Service Oriented Architecture \(SOA processes are the systems that support it.? [2 There is currently no standard approach or methodology for the adoption and implementation of BPM.  Process management is still considered an art Process management must shift from an art to an engineering approach.? [1 This practitioner paper is based on the implementation of BPM in a large Australian bank using a holistic approach based on a BPM implementation framework or model Organization change management was identified as a critical component of the deployment of BPM The adopted BPM implementation framework model management \(people implementation. The magnitude of the change management component was amplified by the prevailing culture at the Bank 


prevailing culture at the Bank This paper describes how each phase of the BPM model was applied in a large Bank. For each phase of the model the paper reviews: the objectives and benefits; the organizational impact; the deliverables and the change management implications Based on this introduction the research questions in this project were  How effective and practical are the popular holistic BPM models in guiding the deployment and implementation of BPM  What are the critical issues regarding organization culture and change management and how are these best addressed  How should the BPM support unit engage with the business in order to be successful The contributions of this paper are  An examination of the popular holistic models of BPM based on a practitioner?s use of these models to implement BPM practice  Extensions to the BPM model to ensure that the fundamental principles, practices and objectives of BPM are preserved  An organizational change management strategy and engagement model Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE  A description of each phase of the BPM lifecycle with the associated learning experience of the practitioner  The application of reflective practice to review progress and adjust the approach as required 2. BPM Implementation Frameworks Organizations looking to adopt BPM tend to rely on BPM frameworks or models to guide their implementation. The most popular models are extremely similar in nature. One was probably derived from the other. Which came first is not known The first model is referenced in the Gartner Research note [1]. The second is published by Oracle Corporation [3] and is shown in Figure 1 This model was the starting point for the implementation of BPM at the Bank   The Oracle Lifecycle starts with process modeling. Simulation follows \(if appropriate the theoretical performance of the model. The notation used to document these models is based on the BPMN and BPEL notations. This phase is also known as the design phase The next phase is called the implementation phase. Here the process is deployed and executed via a workflow engine \(following orchestration to the respective web services monitoring phase utilizing a series of process performance monitoring dashboards The Oracle Model [3] is focused on processes at or near the execution layer. This is typical of many of the BPMS \(application software suite the major vendors including the IBM Websphere Tibco and PegaSystems product offerings There are two fundamental omissions in this model. They were soon discovered during implementation of BPM at the Bank: \(1 of a Strategy Phase and \(2 Ownership and Accountability \(the people-related components It is critical that BPM is strategy driven. The fundamental principle of BPM is that ?one cannot 


fundamental principle of BPM is that ?one cannot manage outcomes.? [6] One can only manage the underlying processes that deliver the outcomes [5 Processes are therefore to be designed to realize the strategy once the strategy and objectives have been defined and linked to their corresponding processes The consequences of omitting the strategy phase are significant 1. The absence of higher-level processes \(value chain or other business function model provide context for these ?operating? processes means that processes are designed in isolation The target processes may be optimized to the detriment of the end-to-end processes. \(This is often a criticism of the Six Sigma approach; ?a mental model bias in Six Sigma to avoid tackling large cross-functional processes  2. The obvious issue of not aligning strategy to the underlying core-processes. ?A visionary strategy that is not linked to excellent operational and governance processes cannot be implemented 4 2.1 Extensions to the BPM Lifecycle Model The BPM Lifecycle was extended to overcome these omissions as illustrated in Figure 2 below Governance,  Ownership and Accountability Deploy Execute BPM Lifecycle Model Simulate Monitor Optimise Establish Align Analyse Strategy Design Control Implementation Figure 1: The Oracle BPM Lifecycle Figure 2: The Extended BPM Lifecycle Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2  The BPM Lifecycle is thus transformed into a closed-loop management system consisting of four major phases  Strategy  Design  Implementation  Control As a closed-loop system it is less important where you start the cycle. It is more important to understand each phase of the lifecycle and its importance in relation to the other phases It may be prudent to start in the Control Phase where the process metrics are exposed through Management Dashboards. This helps to ?crystallize the processes and staff can be guided to observe the impact of management decisions on process outcomes The underlying perspective provided by this model is of an enterprise framework anchored to its processes 2.2 The role of the BPM Lifecycle framework The BPM Lifecycle [4] provides a holistic framework and has multiple applications Describes the function and benefits of BPM from 


Describes the function and benefits of BPM from a business management perspective Illustrates the importance of defining key performance indicators in the strategy phase to ensure that the data are exposed at the Implementation Phase by the IT Infrastructure Provides an example of a closed-loop processbased management model  In the Bank the BPM Lifecycle has provided a useful framework to describe the operation and benefits of BPM to all organization levels The BPM Lifecycle plays a significant part during presentations in illustrating the difference between reactive and proactive management via the key benefits derived from each phase 3. Project and Organizational Background This paper is based on the experiences of the Executive Manager, Group Business Process Management \(Group BPM Financial Services company. As the name implies Group BPM operates across the Group and as such interacts with all business units including the Enterprise Information Technology \(EIT unit The role of the Executive Manager, Group BPM could be regarded as a subset of the role of Organizational Architect described by Sauer and Willcocks: [5 Organizational architects sustain a dialogue between visionaries and technologists as they define and design the right combination of structures processes, capabilities and technologies ? one that has a greater chance of being responsive to the organization?s goals This is the objective of Group BPM with the ultimate goal of providing an environment to support the BPM-related aspirations of the Group. This objective establishes a context for this paper 3.1 A brief history of BPM at the Bank It is appropriate to cover a brief history of process management at the Bank The focus on business processes was reignited at the Bank in 2002 with a program established to ensure compliance with the then new Financial Services Reform Act \(2001 requirement to access related process documentation This was assumed to be relatively simple as the Bank had done a considerable amount of work on documenting the processes several months prior However upon investigation is was discovered that the documentation had disappeared and the program team had no choice but to start again.  The executive made a decision to acquire a suitable application platform to host a process repository and provide a system-based tool to standardize process documentation. A cross-functional team was established and a consulting firm retained to assist in the acquisition Several months later the successful platform was installed and commissioned at the Bank A small centralized team \(four people created to administer the repository, co-ordinate training and provide support across the Group for business process modeling 3.2 Vision for Business Process Management In 2002 a major transformation program was launched at the Bank.  A Lean Six Sigma business area was created within the program and this became the Bank?s common approach to process improvement. The Lean Six Sigma initiative played an important part in promoting process-thinking 


an important part in promoting process-thinking across the Group. Lessons learned from the application of Lean Six Sigma also played an Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 important part in formulating the strategy for the deployment of BPM The vision for BPM was developed in 2003 and described BPM as a management discipline \(versus a project or technology to align the elements of strategy, business processes and Information Technology \(IT across the Group to drive business performance and manage \(operational 3.3 The Challenges of Deploying BPM in a large Financial Services organization BPM practitioners universally decry the apparent inability of the ?business? to understand and acknowledge the benefits of adopting a formal approach to managing the organization?s critical business processes. There is much in the literature as to the possible reasons why Andrew Spanyi [6] nominates at least three possible reasons Leaders don?t care. Leaders can?t focus. Leaders don?t know how It was the statement ?Leaders don?t know how that provided the needed insight. Perhaps they didn?t want to know and wanted to maintain the status quo Many similarities were observed between the behavior of managers at the Bank and the behavior of major account sales people with whom the author had previously worked. Two categories of sales people were observed: \(1 their social skills and \(2 analytical skills. The category that sold intuitively \(in the experience of the author developing strategy and analyzing market forces they simply wanted to get out, meet people and sell This behavior and the parallels with executives in the Bank was later confirmed by the work of Donald Schon, ?.. the field of management is split into two camps, each of which holds a different view of the nature of professional knowledge.? [9]. Schon differentiates between ?management as a science and ?management as an art The author labeled these categories as reactive and proactive management and regarded the transition from reactive to proactive as essential to the success of BPM deployment 3.4 Reactive versus Proactive Management From the above the core organizational change management issue become changing the culture from reactive management to proactive management managing on purpose The author?s hypothesis is that a reactive culture evolves over a long period of time until it becomes the dominant culture. A reactive culture focuses on outcomes \(especially financial outcomes core competency of a reactive culture is problem solving A proactive culture on the other hand develops a deep understanding of their business. They study industry dynamics and develop objectives and strategies to maximize their strengths and minimize their weaknesses. They understand the levers that drive performance \(and manage risk an agile operating model that can adapt rapidly to change. In other words they manage on purpose A proactive management culture depends on a disciplined approach and is considered by those who prefer a reactive style of management as laborious 


and complex The challenge faced is to transform those who manage reactively to manage on purpose 4. Methodology This paper is based on the direct experience of the author, over a five-year period, in solving a particular business problem; ?How to implement and deploy the principles and practices of BPM in a large financial institution?. The critical issue was one of organizational change management, changing behavior from reactive management to proactive management From a BPM point of view the main objective of the project was to develop a holistic model that could be used as the framework for implementation. The model would need to  Serve as an instrument to communicate the operation of a BPM-driven organization and its benefits  Provide a road-map to guide implementation; and  Serve as an aid to organizational change management There were three important shifts in thinking that occurred during the project 1. A major shift in thinking occurred when we realized that the prevailing holistic models [1][3 were flawed. They were perpetuating the reactive style of management and leading to modeling practices focused on localized optimization 2. It was further apparent that rational argument had little impact on persuading people of the benefits of BPM. [7 3. Finally it was realized that the ?expert engagement model practiced by the Lean Six Sigma area was not working. The business was Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 not effectively engaged in ?their? Lean Six Sigma projects. There was little sense of ownership After completion of the project/s the improvement in business efficiency and effectiveness was often not sustained Of the three, making changes to the BPM Lifecycle was the easiest to achieve. The changes were obvious. Insert a Strategy phase between the Optimize stage and the Modeling stage. The model was ?complete? and represented a closed-loop management system  Establish the organization?s objectives and strategy and Align them to their enabling processes. \(At the same time develop the Key Performance Indicators and Key Risk Indicators  Design the processes to realize the strategy. Run Simulation to validate design and metrics  Implement the process; deploy via Standard Operating Procedures \(SOPs workflow engine  Monitor, Analyze and Optimize the processes using management performance dashboards  If the Objectives are not achieved review the strategy and process-design and modify either \(or both It proved more complicated to overcome the problem that ?rational argument was not effective in driving change? until we stumbled on the work Stephen Denning was doing with Business Narrative 7 We attended Stephen?s workshop, read several books and spent hours crafting business narratives Although we didn?t conduct a formal study to 


Although we didn?t conduct a formal study to measure the impact of the stories we did get results We were getting the message through. We could tell from the animated discussion that followed the delivery of a story A ?coaching? engagement model combined with lessons in reflective practice was proposed as an alternative to the ?expert? engagement model. The coaching engagement model is designed to be supportive and not confrontational. Reflective Practice aimed at encouraging adult learning was a logical addition. At the time of writing this paper the coaching? engagement model is still in the process of being developed and was not yet in widespread use In summary the research methodology was based on Action Learning; Reflective Practice; broad and in-depth reading of past and current literature participation in BPM Forums and Blogs and consultation with both academics and private consulting firms 5. The BPM Lifecycle in Practice Implementation of the BPM Lifecycle was supported by an integrated suite of application software as described in section 3.1. Each phase of the lifecycle was represented by models stored in the BPM repository This section reviews each phase of the BPM Lifecycle. For each phase there is a brief description of  The phase  Objectives and benefits of the phase  Phase deliverables  Organizational impact; and  Change management implications 5.1 The Strategy Phase The Strategy Phase represents the beginning of the \(extended Balanced Scorecard models described by Kaplan and Norton [5] were created in this Phase Three model types were used. The first model, the Strategy Map, provided a graphical representation of the four strategic perspectives; financial; customer process and organization capability The second model type was an Objective Model This model linked the objectives defined in each of the strategic perspectives to their respective underlying processes. The model was used to define the Key Performance Indicators \(KPIs defined within in the model The third model was the Balanced Scorecard Model which defined the cause-and-effect relationships between the objectives from each perspective The goal of the Strategy Phase was to facilitate the development of the defined objectives and strategy of the area of the business being considered and align and link this ?strategy? to the underlying enabling processes The deliverables from this phase included 1. A visual representation of the business objectives and strategy 2. A normalized set of objectives with clearly defined metrics 3. The customer value proposition defined within the market segments 4. The underlying enabling business processes Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 5. The organizational capabilities that must be developed or refined in order to realize the strategy and support the processes 


strategy and support the processes The key benefit of this phase was the link between strategy and the processes that would deliver the strategy The linking of strategy to process had been ignored at the Bank in the past. Objectives and strategy were carefully developed and refined but in isolation from their enabling processes Once linked to strategy the critical processes could be the focus of management attention. Without this phase there was a danger that developing corporate objectives and strategy was a useless exercise as the output tended to get lost and ignored over time and the benefits of the strategy process were shared by a few senior managers The process of developing a Strategy Map and the other related models was regarded as a lot of effort by the ?reactive managers?. Their tendency was to get on with it? ? ?Give me my targets and let me worry about the rest!? Reactive managers needed to be coached in the benefits of this phase and also the value provided at the completion of this phase ? a clearly defined strategy ?document? that could be used to focus the efforts of the staff in their business area 5.2 The Design Phase A variety of models were used in this phase. They tended to be a combination of models that provided alternating macro views \(value chain views \(dynamic flow models It should be noted that within the standard BPM implementation models modeling in this phase is limited to the execution layers of process. The macro or contextual views are not included There was a tendency during the Business Process Reengineering phase of the early 1990s to model the entire organization. The approach today is based on the concept of a ?wiki? where the process models are developed over a period of time and added to the repository as required then validated and amended by the stakeholders and integrated into the whole via higher-level models A central repository is critical for this ?wikibased? approach to work effectively The objective of the design phase was to document or design the processes that underpin the execution of the strategy There were multiple benefits associated with the ability to view the process in various forms, from both an end-to-end perspective and at a detailed level Different views of the process were considered Characteristics of the process were reviewed as they were documented ? for example, the purpose of the process; the triggers, the business rules and so on The dynamic flow models could be used in simulation mode \(discrete event simulation further insight into the behavior of the process and to test the effectiveness of the defined process metrics The deliverables from this phase were a ?useful set of semantically correct models approved by those responsible for the processes, the business unit leader or the process owner. Having the processes stored in a trusted central repository ensured that all staff had access to the processes In an organization dominated by a culture of reactive management there is rarely a repository of comprehensive process-related documentation. The impact of not having such documentation stored in a trusted central repository is waste The process documentation tends to be in ?hard copy? form and is generally discarded after the completion of the project. The whole process is 


completion of the project. The whole process is repeated six to nine months later when a new project is initiated The impact and cost of not having the organization?s critical processes is very difficult to measure. But the result is a lack of shared knowledge on how the business works and constant re-work to document processes when a new project is initiated On the positive side comprehensive processrelated documentation provides a common definition of process across the business area and is invaluable in facilitating and understanding of the business leading to the proactive management of the business processes The biggest issue faced in this phase was \(and remains the organization. This included mandating the use of the standard modeling tool \(and modeling notation and discouraging the use of drawing tools such as Microsoft Visio and PowerPoint. This was the biggest challenge as staff found it more time consuming to use formal modeling tools where they were constrained by a particular notation There was a tendency to view processes as having one dimension ? the process steps in a flowchart This was a byproduct of using process flowcharting methods. Training in business modeling versus process modeling was required but no formal training was offered The key change management challenge was to instill a culture of process thinking in the organization. The goal was to get to the stage where staff used process models to describe how their Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 business worked instead of using an organization chart  5.3 The Implementation Phase Processes that have been documented, designed or re-engineered are deployed for execution in the Implementation phase. The intent is that the processes are executed as they have been documented. However this is rarely the case where the processes are not automated. These processes are called shadow processes and the practice is very difficult to eliminate Processes can be manually deployed using Standard Operating Procedures \(SOPs governed by the execution of application software eg a Loan Processing system or they can be automated using workflow technology If the processes have been designed to align with the organization?s objectives and strategies then this is the moment of truth. Effectively designed and documented processes provide the foundation for continuous improvement providing their execution is standardized In the case of the Bank there was little standardization of workflow engines and workflow deployment. The integration of process design and process implementation only occurred in a few areas of the business. The application of workflow technology was generally an outcome of individual projects Ideally the deliverables from this phase are robust, efficient processes ? the realization of the organization?s objectives and strategy. However in reality process execution was disconnected from process design In addition to process deployment the process execution environment must effectively expose the 


execution environment must effectively expose the process metrics that are designed in the Strategy Phase and utilized in the Control Phase The key organizational change required to bridge the gap between process design and process execution was closer collaboration between the business and the technology units. The business needed to understand the IT infrastructure required to execute business processes. This required business analysts that had a technical capability On the Technology side, the Enterprise architects needed to work more closely with the business or ideally within the business 5.4 The Control Phase The control phase consists of three sub-phases monitor, analyze and optimize. The control phase requires fairly sophisticated technology to extract the metrics from the process. This phase is also more commonly known as Business Activity Monitoring BAM The monitoring of process performance is extremely important. Once the process is monitored by a suitable tool then it is possible to easily apply and sustain SPC methods to analyze process performance It is essential to establish the degree of stability in a process. Once the process is stable \(under control one can then apply statistical methods to analyse and communicate the behavior of the process. Once the process is stable it is possible to predict the behavior of a process within its control limits \(process capability adjustments to the process structure in order to control the degree of variation exhibited by the process.[10 The objectives of the Control Phase were to monitor the performance, analyze the process behavior \(variation and common causes of variation by applying SPC methods. [10 The key benefit was being able to predict the output of the process within the tolerance of its control limits. A secondary benefit was to illustrate the impact of management intervention on the process performance The deliverables included detailed information about the performance of the process based on the execution of the process itself. The metrics were not theoretically derived but were extracted directly during process execution Management dashboards provided the information to the staff who ?worked on? and worked in? the processes to support them in executing their tasks and serving the end customers Having facts to guide management decisions had an important impact on the organization. The tendency to blame individuals for poor performance diminished. Instead there was a focus on the process How did the process ?allow? this to occur?? [11 This attitude was actively promoted by the BPM support unit There were many more benefits. The link between process performance and achieving business outcomes become clear with a greater emphasis on process management The use of Statistical Process Control is traditionally limited to manufacturing organizations Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 However the penetration of Six Sigma has meant that more organizations are being exposed to its practice In a culture of reactive management training staff 


not to make decisions based on a single data point was critical. They needed to accept the process as it was, ensure it was under control before they started to change the process structures. It was critical that they understood the difference between common and special causes of process variation.[11 6. Discussion and Lessons Learned The extended BPM Lifecycle \(represented by Figure 2 the principles and practices of BPM at the Bank was a logical systematic process. This was not the case The initial focus was process modeling and the development of a business architecture without reference to any implementation framework. This situation was aggravated by a major Sarbanes-Oxley compliance initiative. It was much later that we decided to adopt a BPM framework The framework adopted was based on the standard? BPM framework. The issues of governance and ownership and the disconnect between strategy and their corresponding processes were known. These issues and their impact were discussed and the ?solution? of the extended BPM Lifecycle evolved However the BPM Lifecycle, as a framework for the deployment of BPM is now well understood. It can be effectively used by the Bank \(and other organizations The first research question: ?How effective and practical are the popular holistic BPM models in guiding the deployment and implementation of BPM can now be answered. Without the addition of the Strategy Phase we were at significant risk of promoting the practices of reactive management by not considering processes in a global and strategic context The issue of organizational change management addressed by the extended BPM Lifecycle focused on changing the culture from reactive management to proactive management. This was \(and still is critical issue. The use of the BPM framework to draw attention to this behavior and combined with business narrative were interventions that achieved some success Business narrative was used to overcome the tendency to use rational argument as the only method to encourage change. However Stephen Denning [7 describes the use of different story structures to support the entire deployment lifecycle.  The use of additional story types in this way has promise and is to be explored later The nature of engagement between the BPM support unit and the business received a lot of attention. It became clear that an ?expert? engagement model was not effective. Although it did produce results these results were not sustained and the business never really ?owned? their business processes An engagement model based on executive coaching and reflective practice showed more promise and was welcomed by the business units. It was a less confronting model based on collaboration and the attitude that the BPM unit was part of the business not a separate area An important issue is the provision of work-place training of BPM staff in executive coaching and reflective practice. This will be critical to the success of the ?coaching? engagement model. The most appropriate method is probably to use coaching and reflective practice to train the BPM coaches. This is an area that needs further research and attention The Strategy Phase was a significant addition to 


The Strategy Phase was a significant addition to the lifecycle. However the business initially regarded the use of models to document strategy as ?a lot of effort?. This reaction was no surprise in the context of reactive management. Reactive managers tend not to be comfortable with analysis Once the sense of ?effort? was overcome they tended to enjoy the process and found it very stimulating and useful. They also had a sense of ownership of their strategy as they have helped to formulate it. They understood a great deal more about how their business worked than they did before participating in the process In the Modeling Phase we learned that it is extremely important to ensure that the users have a positive experience in using a more sophisticated process modeling tool. Training in the use of the tool as well as training in modeling business processes is required. This is equally true for both business and technical staff The models need to be simple and staff need to be encouraged to provide high level models such as value chains to provide a context for the dynamic flow models The key lesson learned is that the processes must be useful to the business if they are to be maintained The intent is to make the process documentation indispensible to the managers as an aid to managing their business. This is achieved by the additional information recorded with the objects that make up the models \(object attributes document the processes must have the ability to maintain attributes that are used to describe the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 process and provide details on each aspect of the process In the Implementation Phase simply having application software that is capable of automating the business processes is not enough. Business representatives need to understand the capability of technology to deploy and automate processes Technology staff need understand business sufficiently to provide them with an awareness of the possibilities that can be derived from process automation and the emerging technology of SOA Finally in the Control Phase implementing a process and business monitoring tool is a complex undertaking. There is a very steep learning curve involved in all aspects from installation configuration, testing and training staff in the use and analysis of the tool It is critical to clearly communicate how each of the Key Performance Indicators \(KPIs calculated and how they should be interpreted and used. The users must trust what they see so it is important to have a transparent validation process in place that can be used to demonstrate the accuracy of the measurements and results. Be prepared for rapid acceptance and understanding from the business and requests for advanced features. This behavior may reflect the penchant of reactive managers to solve problems There are many areas for further research. It would be interesting to profile managers using Kolb?s Learning Style Inventory [12]. This would provide further insight into the characteristics of reactive versus proactive managers and provide alternatives for intervention strategies. It is possible that a balance of reactive management and proactive management is likely to be more effective than a single management style 


style 7. Conclusion This paper has illustrated the use of a holistic framework, the BPM Lifecycle and its use in the deployment of business process management \(as a management discipline financial services organization The paper demonstrates that the commonly used BPM models omit two key elements: \(1 Phase and \(2 Governance Ownership and Accountability. Without the link to strategy organizations will tend to focus on local process optimization of process to the detriment of the performance of the end-to-end processes A visionary, competitive strategy that is not linked to operational processes cannot be implemented [4 Effective process management is not possible without appropriate governance and ownership Suitably qualified, experienced and trained staff are required for the role of Process Owner. Their authority to modify or approve modifications must be derived from corporate policy - the formal delegated authority to modify a process The paper argues that the introduction of BPM is further complicated in an organization dominated by reactive-style? managers. Converting these managers to ?proactive-style? managers is a major organizational change management imperative Furthermore these managers aren?t persuaded by rational argument. More effective approaches such as the use of business narrative must be used to initiate and accelerate the required change Finally an ?expert? engagement model is not effective for deploying BPM. Business executives and their staff require coaching in the application of BPM principles and practices assisted by training in Reflective Practice to internalize the learning The discipline of BPM is extending rapidly assisted by technology advances. The integration of business rules engines into process modeling tools holds the promise of ?agile processes? and redefines the role of risk managers. [13 The extended BPM lifecycle is not specific to the financial services industry but could be applied to other industries. It provides a very high level framework. The underlying elements can be adapted to include evolving aspects of BPM including the definition, testing and deployment of business rules and the documentation and management of technology related elements such as web services The journey at the Bank is not complete by any means. It is merely the ?end of the beginning?. The major aggravating factor is scale. There are a large number of people, business units and a complex technology platform and an ever changing market environment However the modified and extended BPM Lifecycle has proved to be a ?useful model? to support the introduction and deployment of business process management at the Bank 8. References 1] Melenovsky, Michael James; ?Business Process Management as a Discipline?, Gartner Research note RA3_01112007, August 2006  2] Smith, Howard and Fingar, Peter;, ?Business Process Management. The Third Wave?, Megahn-Kiffeer Press, August 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


9 3] Oracle Data Sheet, ?Oracle Business Process Management Suite?, Oracle Corporation, 2008  4] Kaplan, Robert and Norton, David; ?The Execution Premium. Linking Strategy to Operations for Competitive Advantage?. Harvard Business School Publishing Corporation, 2008  5] Sauer, C and Willcocks, L.P. \(2002 Evolution of the Organizational Architect?, Spring: MIT Sloan Management Review, pp. 41-49  6] Andrew Spanyi, ?More for Less. The Power of Process Management?, Meghan-Kiffer Press, Tampa Florida, 2006  7] Denning, Stephen, ?The Springboard: How Storytelling Ignites Action in Knowledge-Era Organizations?, Butterworth-Heinemann, 2000  8] Roberts. Kaplan and David P. Norton, ?Strategy Map: converting intangible assets into tangible outcomes Harvard Business Press, 2004  9] Schon, D.A.,? The Reflective Practitioner?, JosseyBass Inc. San Francisco. 1983  10] Wheeler, Donald and Chambers, David Understanding Statistical Process Control?, SPC Press 1992  11] Deming, W Edwards, ?Out of the Crisis?, MIT CAES, 1982  12] Kolb, D. A. \(1976a Boston, MA: Hay Group, Hay Resources Direct  13] IDS-Scheer Data Sheet. ARIS Business Rules Designer. \(2008  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


pp.6840  6848, 2008 10] S.K. Lee, G. Mogi, J.W. Kim  Prioritizing the weights of hydrogen energy technologies in the sector of the hydrogen economy by using a fuzzy AHP approach  Proc. of the 3rd Korea-USA Joint Symposium on Hydrogen &amp; Fuel Cell Technologies, pp. 263-272, 2008 11] D.Y. Chang  Applications of the extent analysis method on fuzzy AHP  European Journal of Operational Research, vol. 95, pp.649-655 1996 12] S.K. Lee, G. Mogi, J.W. Kim  Multi-criteria decision making for selecting strategic R&amp;D programs of energy technologies: analytic network process approach  Proc. of International conference of Applied Energy 2009, pp 1513-1521, 2009 13] S.K. Lee, G. Mogi, J.W. Kim  A fuzzy AHP/DEA hybrid model for allocating energy R&amp;D resources efficiently: In case of energy technologies against high oil prices  Proc. of 7th International Conference on Sustainable Energy Technologies 2008, pp 2042-2049 2008 14] S.K. Lee, G. Mogi, J.W. Kim  A fuzzy AHP/DEA approach for selecting an efficiency frontier group: Technologies for the UNFCCC   Proc. of Renewable Energy 2008, pp 4, 2008 15] S.K. Lee, G. Mogi, J.W. Kim  Multi-criteria decision making for measuring relative efficiency of greenhouse gas technologies AHP/DEA hybrid model approach  Engineering Letters, vol. 16 pp.493-497, 2008 16] S.K. Lee, G. Mogi, J.W. Kim  Multi-criteria Decision Making Method for Developing Greenhouse Gas Technologies Strategically Considering Scale Efficiency: AHP/DEA CCR-I and BCC-I Integrated model Approach  Trans. of the Korean Hydrogen and New Energy Society, vol. 19, pp. 552-560, 2008  pre></body></html 


Factors in Information Technology Innovation. Information Systems Research, 5\(2 50] Rice, R. E., &amp; Aydin, C. \(1991 Organizational Technology: Network Proximity as a Mechanism for Social Information Processing Administrative Science Quarterly, 36\(2 51] Cheney, F. W. \(1990 among Multiple Raters: An Example of Methods for Nominal Data. Statistics in Medecine, 9, 1103-1115 52] L  ger, P.-M., Babin, G., &amp; Dubois, J.-F. \(2008 Longitudinal Effects of Exposure in Network Diffusion of Enterprise Resource Systems 53] Harte, H. \(2008 Hanks.Com. from http://www.hartehanks.com/Interior.aspx?CategoryID=1241 54] Banal-Esta  ol, A., &amp; Seldeslachts, J. \(2004 Failures. University of Western Ontario and Universitat Aut  noma de Barcelona, mimeo 55] Pearcy, D. H., Parker, D. B., &amp; Giunipero, L. C 2008 Chain Integration: An Exploratory Study of Us-Based Firms 56] Callaway, E. \(2000 Web Enabled for E-Business: Computer Technology Research Corp. Charleston, SC, USA 57] Willis, H. \(2002 Industrial Management and Data Systems, 102\(1 58] M  ller, C. \(2005 Next-Generation Enterprise Systems? Management, 18\(4 483-497 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





