  1 Diagnostic Enhancements for Air Vehicle HUMS to Increase Prognostic System Effectiveness Romano Patrick 206 Matthew J. Smith 206 Bin Zhang  Carl S. Byington 206 George J. Vachtsevanos  Romeo Del Rosario 207  206 Impact Technologies, LLC 200 Canal View Blvd Rochester, NY 14623 Phone: \(585 romano.patrick, matthew.smith carl.byington}@impact-tek.com  Electrical and Computer Engr Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, GA 30332-0250 Phone: \(404 bin.zhang@gatech.edu gjv@ece.gatech.edu 
207 U.S. Army Research Laboratory AMSRD-ARL-SE-RE 2800 Powdermill Rd Adelphi, MD 20783-1197 romeo@arl.army.mil  Abstract 227A major objective of Health and Usage Monitoring Systems \(HUMS\ transition from time based part replacement to pe rforming maintenance actions based on evidence of need. While existing HUMS capability has demonstrated progr ess, the ability to diagnose component faults in their early stages is limited. This is due in part to sensitivity to signal noise, variations in environmental and operating conditions, and underutilization of prognostic techniques. Using the representative example of the fan support bearing in the oil cooler of the UH-60 helicopter, this paper discusses key areas to improve fault detection methods for health monitoring of a damaged helicopter transmission 
component. These include: \(1\ng and data processing tools, \(2\selection and extraction of optimum condition indicators/features, \(3\fusion of data at the sensor and feature levels, and \(4\ncipient fault detection using a Bayesian estimation framework. Results illustrating the effectiveness of these techni ques are presented for fielded UH-60 bearing vibration data and laboratory test results 1 2  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  D IAGNOSTIC E NHANCEMENTS AND H EALTH B ASED 
P ROGNOSTICS 2  3  O IL C OOLER B EARING F AULTS 2  4  A PPROACH 4  5  D IAGNOSTICS AND F USION R ESULTS 6  6  A N A RCHITECTURE FOR THE I NTEGRATION OF 
D IAGNOSTICS AND P ROGNOSTICS 8  C ONCLUSIONS 11  R EFERENCES 11  B IOGRAPHY 12  1  I NTRODUCTION  In recent years, the U.S. Army has witnessed various helicopter component failures that are currently driving the need for improved health monitoring and fault prediction that will be implemented unde r the broader initiative for Condition Based Maintenance \(CBM\of the U.S 1 
 1 978-1-4244-2622-5 09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1608, Version 7, Updated January 6, 2009 Department of Defense, known as CBM+. The fault diagnosis and failure prognos is problem for critical helicopter parts/components has been addressed over the years via a variety of model-based and data-driven approaches. Research in this area has focused primarily on the analysis of vibration data and the derivation of condition indicators, component seeded fault testing and detection/identification of incipient failures. Existing hardware/software health m onitoring systems, such as VM and IM D-HUM S [2 col l ect vi brat i on and ot her pertinent flight regime data, carry out data pre-processing and attempt to detect a fault condition using condition indicators derived via data processing algorithms. These 
technological developments have led to the collection of onaircraft data and off-board fa ilure analysis studies. They form a valuable component of the knowledge base and data warehousing capabilities required to build an effective CBM+ system. However, with prognosis an underdeveloped element of CBM and Prognostic and Health Management \(PHM\systems, attempts at predicting the remaining useful life of failing components have been limited in number and scope. It is desirable to have a systematic methodology that integrates elements of sensing data analysis, condition indicator selection and extraction fault diagnosis and failure prognosis into a single platform that may be ported to Health and Usage Monitoring Systems HUMS\environments and has been validated through laboratory test platforms, use of prerecorded aircraft data corresponding to known opera 
ting conditions, and ultimately, deployment onboard fielde d aircraft To specifically address th e need for improved fault detection and failure prediction methods, the Army Research Laboratory, Impact Technologies, LLC, and the Georgia Institute of Technol ogy are currently working collaboratively to develop, test and evaluate modular software components that provide enhancements to diagnostic systems already in service, as well as add failure prognosis capabilities for critical Army aircraft components This work is being carried out as part of the three-year \223Air Vehicle Diagnostic and Prognostic Improvement Program\224 AVDPIP\and its ultimate goal is to allow the modular software components to complement existing Army HUMS systems so as to provide the Army with tools and an 
 


  2 architecture that support the CBM+ goals of improving readiness, safety, and maintainability of assets. Use of these technologies should warn opera tors and field commanders of impending failure conditions and assist maintainers in optimizing aircraft repair, maintenance and overhaul practices With design of an effective prognostic system as a primary objective, the AVDPIP program is developing what is here referred to as \223health based\224 prognostic algorithms. These algorithms attempt to prognosticate the Remaining Useful Life \(RUL\ponent that has been deemed to be damaged, albeit still functional. The operation of a health based prognostic system will always be preceded by diagnostic operations, and the assessment of remaining life can be performed only after the current health state has been determined and upon establishing the amount of damage present in a degrading component. This is in contrast to performing what we refer to as \223usage based\224 prognostics where the state of the component is not regarded before predicting life remaining. The operation of a usage based prognostic system will typically only take into account the amount of time a component has been operating and the conditions to which it has been subjected throughout that time, thus making at any given instant a worstcase-scenario analysis of the amount of life \223consumed\224 up to that point and determining life remaining from the difference to an amount of life predetermined by design 2  D IAGNOSTIC E NHANCEMENTS AND H EALTH B ASED P ROGNOSTICS  In general, a CBM program calls for transitioning from time based part replacements to performing maintenance upon evidence of need. This requirement is more wholly fulfilled by the joint operation of diagnostic and health based prognostic systems. For the U.S. Army\222s CBM+ plan there is interest in implementing fault detection and PHM algorithms that eliminate use of \223time before overhaul\224 TBO\nitions, which currently drive maintenance and retirement schedules of certain mechanical components in vehicles. Clearly, the first step in reducing dependency on TBO definitions is to implement effective fault detection technologies. It is widely documented how detecting serious faults in a variety of rotorcraft components before they fail completely is possible, most notably utilizing vibration based diagnostics in aircraft HUMS. Arguably, however the ability of some techniques to diagnose component faults in their early stages in vehicle drive systems is limited, and as will be discussed below, this limitation presents an opportunity to implement advanced detection techniques Another means to support the elimination of TBO-based maintenance decisions is the implementation of health based prognostics. However, the task of prognosis is often underrepresented in the field, pa rtly because e ffective health based prognostic systems require more robust and reliable diagnostics of incipient faults than is sometimes available The ability of diagnostic systems to detect early-stage faults is limited to some extent by the sensitivity of data processing, fault detection, root cause classification to signal noise, specific component fault modes, and variations in environmental and operating conditions \(such as loads speeds, flight regimes, etc 3 u s th ere ex ists th e potential to improve vehicle health monitoring algorithms such that they become more insensitive to signal noise and to changes in environmental/operating conditions. Since early detection is a key requirement for the implementation of effective prognostic algorithms, techniques that can mitigate the effects of noise and environmental/operating conditions, as well as perform fault identification, pose themselves as a prerequisite for making prognostic technologies more ubiquitous. This paper reviews a number of these techniques. Some of the enabling technologies include: \(1\ng and data processing tools to extract useful fault information from raw sensor data, \(2\ection and extraction of optimum condition indicators/features, \(3 fusion of data at the sensor and feature levels, and \(4 Bayesian estimation techniques to manage uncertainty and meet strict accuracy, precisi on and reliability performance metrics 3  O IL C OOLER B EARING F AULTS  A representative example of the challenges described above is given by a fan support bearing of the oil cooling subsystem of the H-60 series of helicopters currently in service for the U.S. Army. Th e oil cooler bearings were selected as the component of focus for this study due to their criticality and the potential availability of data collected from a variety of helicopters in service. In addition, these components have been previously studied and their diagnosis has been deemed to be of interest  The transition from time-based \(using TBO definitions\o condition-based maintenance for this bearing is of interest due to the criticality of the component and the relatively high incidence of replacem enabling factor of the safe tr ansition to effective CBM can clearly result from the implem entation of a bearing life prognostic system. However, as mentioned earlier, to be most effective, the operation of such a prognostic system must be preceded by, and integrated with, enhanced diagnostic algorithms capable of detecting a fault in its early stages of development. These diagnostic operations should perform robustly even in the presence of the multiple kinds of disturbances affecting data acquired by HUMS sensors The oil cooler is a core component of the H-60 tail rotor drive train assembly whose primary function is to cool the helicopter transmission lubricant while transmitting power to the tail rotor drive shaft through the oil cooler shaft. It sits in the downdraft of the main rotor wash, and uses a fan to force air through a radiator for efficient cooling. The tail rotor drive train consists of a drive shaft that transfers 
 


  3 torque from the main transmission to the oil cooler drive shaft and then to a series of drive shaft sections and the intermediate gear box before propelling the tail rotor gear box. This arrangement is shown in Figure 1 The Oil Cooling System The components of the oil cooler illustrated in Figure 2, are centered on a splined shaft supported at the front by two shielded cartridge bearings, and in the rear by a viscous damper bearing. The oil cooler fan assembly consists of a multi-bladed rotor housed inside a concentric stator. The shields of the bearings contain the grease supply and protect this latter against contaminants such as dust and debris  Figure 2. H-60 oil cooler components Fault analysis of the oil cooler carries high relevance since a failure to effectively regulat e drive train temperature may eventually lead to expansion and freezing of the drive shaft and catastrophic power loss on the tail rotor. Although there is potential for the heavily-loaded splined oil cooler shaft to develop cracks, the components most prone to failure are the shielded cartridge bearings supporting the cooling fan These are deep-groove, greasepacked ball bearings for standard mobility applications, with an inner bore diameter of approximately 2 inches and 10 balls, and are specified to ABEC-1. A pair of identical bearings \(fore/aft\resent on the fan shaft of the oil cooler assembly Bearings with heavily contam inated grease and exhibiting corrosion on the raceways, balls and cage surfaces have been found in the field in multiple instances \(see, for exampl  part i c ul arl y on t h e front cart r i dge beari ng Grease breakdown and wash-out are also fault modes of concern. Figure 3 illustrates some of these fault modes   Figure 3. Oil cooler bearing failure potential: debris ingestion \(left right Once it was determined that the fore fan support bearing was a failure-prone component susceptible to water-based Figure 1. H-60 drive train assembly From \223Technical Manual, Aviation Unit and Intermediate Maintenance for Army Models UH60A, UH60L, and EH60A Helicopters\224, U.S. Army TM 1-1520-237-23-4, May 29, 1998  
 


  4 corrosion, the Army translat ed the OEM\222s 5-year life specification to a 2000-hour life limit. Nevertheless, it is believed that such a number is overly conservative, since operating temperatures drive out water vapor, and failure is unlikely under the observed corrosion conditions and the support of the back bearing Still, with no substantial backing of this claim, the Army is concerned with the prospect of having to service a multiplicity of platforms as the 2000-hour life limit approaches. Due to the prospects for life extension,, there is great potential benefit in the development of a reliable monitoring and condition assessment system for the oil cooler bearings Bearing Fault Effects and Monitoring The phenomenon of rolling cont act fatigue has been long known to be a leading contribut or to the failure of rolling element bearings. This failure mode is instigated by the cycling loading profile generated by the Hertzian contact forces rotating circumferen tially about the ball/raceway during bearing motion. The resulting sub-surface stress cycles eventually lead to the flaking away of raceway material referred to as \223spalling.\224 Once a spall is present on the bearing raceway, the conti nued stress cycles will result in the loss of additional material and growth of the spall Once a raceway spall reaches a size deemed harmful to the safe, reliable operation of the system, the bearing is said to be failed Previous bearing studies a nd practical usage experience have indicated that the presence of raceway surface corrosion can greatly accelerate the spalling process. The accepted physical explanation for this effect is that the formation of corrosive pitti ng on the raceway provides an ideal location for spall initiation. It is also very likely that the brittling effects of corrosi ve degradation accelerate the rate of spall growth. The combined corrosive/fatigue degradation of roller bearings is a failure mode of great interest in bearing systems that are exposed to environmental conditions such as moisture and humidity that instigate the corrosive process Helicopter drive train and accessory bearings are particularly susceptible to this failure mode, and the H-60 oil cooler fan bearings are no exception. These components can operate in highly corrosive environments, and events like salt water induction or depot washdowns can lead to high levels of corrosive degradation. There is the potential for this corrosion to contribute to the early spalling and eventual failure of the bearing. As mentioned earlier, this component has been deemed a good candidate for the study and development of bearing diagnostic enhancement technologies and health base d prognostics, and the failure mode described above is the focus of this paper The fault modes of the oil cooler bearing described have been shown to be detectable through vibration analysis  The predominant sensing scheme consists of accelerometers mounted on the oil cooler housing. Vibration data for bearing fault detection consists of time series of accelerometer readings. When a spall has initiated, bearing specific frequencies associated with the location of the defect are excited. However for the case of corrosion, it is expected that multiple frequencies, or even wideband excitation, will be present. The amplitude and time duration of the defect frequency are expected to be indications of defect severity. Various features or condition indicators both in the time and frequency domain, are expected to serve as a means for detecti ng these faults, in agreement with standard vibration based bearing health monitoring 4  A PPROACH  As described earlier, to arrive at an architecture that offers reliable fault detection and accurate assessments of the remaining useful life of the components, enhanced diagnostic and prognostic algorithms must be implemented The AVDPIP program is focusing on developing a set of software components that provide diagnostic enhancements and failure prognosis algorithms. The effectiveness of these components will be tested initially on diagnosing and prognosticating damage on oil cooler bearings. Although these developments are currently ongoing, this paper reports on progress made and some preliminary results. The results were derived from two kinds of data: \(1\ples of actual aircraft data provided by the U.S. Army, and \(2\bearing vibration data generated by Impact Technologies through its in-house high-speed bearing test rig A hybrid and systematic approach to sensing, data processing, fault feature extraction, fault diagnosis, and failure prognosis has been utili zed with the two vibration data sets. The system arch itecture contains generic components/algorithms building on model based and data driven methodologies that will ev entually be tr ansferable to other critical helicopter system s/components, as illustrated in Figure 4 While a specific example was used to demonstrate the developments and achievements of the base period of performance of AVDPIP, the algorithms and methodologies for performing enhanced feature extraction and fusion developing and combining da ta-driven and model-based approaches for system health assessments, and managing uncertainty, will be transferable to a wide variety of components and platforms Collection and Assessment of Component Data One of the initial tasks that the AVDPIP team performed was the search for data adequa tely characterizing a system operating at fault. Table 1 lists the different characteristics sought in the data to ensure that the data was adequate and representative. The data liste d can be classified in two types: system configuration and use data \(contained in clear cells of the table\part-specific data \(contained in 
 


  5 colored cells\As it may be expected, it is a challenge to obtain data that meets all the listed characteristics. Different sources of data will meet different requirements in the list This paper places focus on two of the available data sets that meet most of the listed requirements The first data set of interest corresponds to the vibration signals of an oil cooler fan support bearing from an H-60 helicopter in recent service. Th e bearing vibration exhibited abnormal, increasing levels on multiple condition indicators calculated by the VMEP HUM S system. The bearing was eventually replaced \(in June of 2007\ed by the logistics records of the U.S. Army The second data set of focus in this paper corresponds to vibration data collected from a bearing test rig. This data corresponds to an industrial bearing exhibiting a progressing spall. This bearing is being considered as a surrogate for illustrative purposes, since it provides sufficient data to illustrate some of the techniques discussed in the present document Diagnostic Enhancement Algorithms The main goal of the AVDPIP program is not to develop an entirely new diagnostic system, but rather to develop techniques that can be utilized by the Army to improve the performance of their diagnostic systems already in use. The techniques listed below were thus implemented and have been used to obtain the results of the corresponding sections 225 ImpactEnergy\231 Shock Pulse Amplification software utilizing a multi-step signal processing routine prior to feature extraction that increases the visibility of shock-pulse events indicative of specific bearing faults, thus uncovering frequency spectrum peaks that are otherwise hidden in the broadband spectrum, and allowing for detection of faults in their incipient state  Table 1. Data characteristics of interest to characterize oil cooler bearing faults The data in cells with an asterisk also colored\o components identified individually  Background and specifications Operational Maintenance and field records Vibration data General characteristics of oil cooler Installation and operation characteristics loads, speeds lubrication, etc Bearing maintenance practices replacement inspection/tests lubrication cleaning, etc Vibration data specifications frequency, sensor type preprocessing done, units Mechanical configuration of oil cooler and bearings including basic geometry and loads Typical operating environmental conditions and possible variations  Fault/failure incidence rates for bearings and sub-components Data to tie vibration data to records of use/maintenance to assess bearing operating conditions \(e.g helicopter No bearing serial Design data and specifications of bearings materials capacity lubricant, etc Characteristics and locations of sensors accels tachometer and mounting techniques Maintenance actions relating to usage records e.g., events triggering maintenance and correspondence to specific usage records Vibration data for different accelerometer positions, health conditions \(healthy bearings and different faults and operating regimes Bearing models variants used and their differences History of use of individual bearings operating regimes environments etc Usage and logistics data removals repairs, etc and operating conditions of individual components Supporting measurements load, temperature tachometer, etc Figure 4. Overview of the technical approach of the AVDPIP program   Time Present MTTF Prediction X Confid P f X% Precision Hazard Lines Hazard Lines 1.0 
0.5 1.5 2.5 
1 2 
265 Raw data Datadriven CI\222s Fusion Physics-offailure mechanisms Modelbased CI\222s Damage progression mechanisms Diagnostics current health state Prognostics future health state Usage operating conditions 
TSA of Vibration Experience FMECA RCM 
 


  6 225 Use of an Active Band Selection \(ABS\gorithm, which maximizes fault detection by using techniques to identify the best regions of the broadband spectrum to perform fault frequency demodulation \(potential system resonances 225 Feature fusion techniques to combine multiple feature values into a single indicator that maximizes fault class separation, increases fault detection confidence and simplifies threshold metrics 225 Sensor fusion techniques to combine the vibration signatures of multiple sensors to decrease the effects of random noise and increase visibility of subtle signs of fault 225 A methodology to detect as early as possible with specified degree of confidence and prescribed false alarm rate an anomaly or novelty \(incipient failure  5  D IAGNOSTICS AND F USION R ESULTS  The techniques discussed above were applied to two bearing vibration datasets. The first dataset was obtained from an H-60 rotorcraft that experienced an oil cooler related event occurring around the 2006 to 2007 timeframe Unfortunately the available maintenance information did not provide specific indication of the motivation for this action. Since this rotorcraft data example lacks ground truth information as to the nature of the fault and the aircraft data only includes one sensor, results from a second bearing dataset are presented to further demonstrate the techniques reviewed in this paper. Such second dataset was generated on an experimental test stand using a surrogate bearing with data from three accelerometers H-60 Dataset The ImpactEnergy\231 software package was applied to the H-60 dataset. A full feature set was calculated that included statistical time domain metrics and frequency domain energy based quantities. For the purpose of comparison, a set of conventional features were derived using the raw vibration data prior to the data processing operations. One such set is here reported, with other exhibiting comparable results. Figure 5 provides feature trend plots for an inner race fault frequency of both th e conventional broadband and ImpactEnergy conditioned vibration data. Note that all feature values have been normalized on a 0-1 scale. The feature plots clearly demons trate a generally increasing trend of feature values with a larger jump in magnitude experienced in mid 2006. The feature values obtained after the ImpactEnergy processing experience lower levels of variance than those from the conventional domain. This effect is most clearly observed in the earlier, presumed healthier data While the exact location and nature of the event that instigated the vibration signature change is unknown, the inner race fault frequency provided a clearer trend than any of the other component frequenc ies \(outer race, ball pass cage\e to the relatively low frequency resolution caused by the short duration of the time samples available, it is unclear if this fault frequency response is due to a fault condition located on the inner race or merely a general increase in the energy reco rded by the accelerometer  Figure 5. Inner Race Trends for H-60 Vibration Data Surrogate Test Bearing Dataset The dataset obtained from a test rig in house at Impact Technologies provides the opportunity to better demonstrate some of the diagnostic enhancements presented in this paper. The data corresponds to bearing vibration signals for tests with damage progression \(run to failure\a bearing with a naturally occurring spall.  Four blocks of data with varying spall sizes are available for 3 different sensors.  A total of 8 one-second-long vibration snapshots were analyzed for each of the four blocks. The data has ground truth information that can be used to identify baseline incipient fault, and progressed fault data. Also, the presence of multiple accelerometers provides an opportunity to implement sensor fusion techniques The Active Band Selection \(ABS\algorithm was applied to the bearing vibration data. In Figure 6 the feature results for the ABS algorithm are presented for a range of potential carrier frequencies. The analysis identified six potential frequencies to use for the center frequency of the ImpactEnergy demodulation process. System knowledge was used to eliminate four of these that were known to be in regions where noise was likely to distort feature extraction results. The leading candidate of the remaining frequencies 23.5 kHz, was used for all Imp actEnergy feature extraction 
 


  7  Figure 6. ABS Feature Results In this case, the fault was clear ly identified as a spall located on the inner race of the beari ng. Therefore, the inner race fault frequency would be expected to be a key piece of evidence for fault detection. Figure 7 provides the inner race fault feature trends obtai ned for the conventional and ImpactEnergy spectra  Figure 7. Effect of IE Processing on Detection Again, all feature values are normalized on a 0-1 scale While the conventional feature provides good indication of the progressed fault condition, the resulting detection threshold results in several cases of false alarms and missed detection. The feature value trend obtained after the signal processing process provides clear separation of the baseline incipient fault and progressed fault classes. As illustrated in the trend plot, thresholds can be created for this feature that provide fault detection without error as well as a fault severity assessment To further improve the performance of the inner race feature, feature fusion was used to combine the three best performing features into a single health index. Due to the small number of data samples available to refine the fused feature, a simple linear projection was created using principal component analysis \(PCA\s technique of linear algebra reduces data dimensionality while retaining the most critical information The resulting fused feature Figure 8\feature variance for each of the three classes than is observed in the inner race feature alone  Figure 8. Fused Feature Trend Plot Finally, sensor fusion was attempted to further enhance the fault response of the inner race feature. The bearing test rig collects sensor data in three locations. Two of these measurements are taken in close proximity to the test specimen. The third acceleromet er is located far from the test specimen in close proximity to another bearing. It is not expected that this distan t accelerometer would provide useful information about subtle faults present in the test bearing. All features presented so far were derived from the radial sensor near the specimen. To demonstrate sensor fusion, three techniques: beamforming, principal component analysis and the SUMPLE algorithm were applied to the time domain data from the two closest accelerometers The resulting feature trends obtained from data derived from each fusion technique are presented in Figure 9. The inner race feature extracted fro m the radial sensor only is provided for reference purposes   Figure 9. Inner Race Feature Sensor Fusion Results The results show that there was no observed benefit from sensor fusion using any of the three techniques. In this case the information gained from the axial sensor does not provide additional evidence of the fault condition. Note that the beamforming and SUMPLE results display the undesirable effect of a slight increase in feature variance These results demonstrate that the benefit of sensor fusion is 
 


  8 highly dependent on the quality of the information obtained from each individual sensor, a nd if not done carefully can actually decrease the usefulness of the extracted features 6  A N A RCHITECTURE FOR THE I NTEGRATION OF D IAGNOSTICS AND P ROGNOSTICS  Figure 10 depicts an architecture for advanced detection and prognosis. In this architecture, sensor measurements and operational parameters are input in real time. Data is preprocessed to reduce the effect of noise, before computing condition indicators or features indicative of a component\222s health Using the features and a model describing the component\222s degrading state, fault detection and failure prognostic algorithms based on particle filtering are applied [7 Statistical analysis is implemented to evaluate the probability of a fault being present. When the fault is detected with a given confidence level, the prognostic algorithm is activated to predict the remaining useful life RUL\he component. This architecture provides not only a convenient compromise between data-driven and model-based techniques, but also the means to evaluate performance with statistical indices. Moreover, the particle filtering based algorithm provides a means to deal efficiently with nonlinear and non-Gaussian noise. The nonlinear dynamic state model described by \(1\s used 
800 
15 
05 
Probability of Failure                 
 
PF Detection Routine: GAG =246                 
300 400 500 700 100 Interpolation of feature value with noise 
  004  
1 2 Preprocessing Fault Detection                   3 4 0 1 3 4 0 0  
   
100 3.5 4.5 100 0.5 2 5 
 1   1  Features         dbd ctdc td c xt f xt nt xt fxt xt t thxtxtvt 
 
 
3.5 
Interpolation of feature vlaue s napshot with ground truth data Prognostic Model 1  L tftuLt 
100 200 600 900 
212\005\212 
Type I Error = 5%. Type II Error =1.9577 Fisher Discriminant Ratio =12.1834 Operating conditions and inputs Diagnostic Model 
50 150 50 150 4.5 
  
   1 1 2 2 2 1  2 1   1   1 1       10 if 10 01  01 else 0 0 0 1 0 0 dd b dd cc d c TTT b T dd c xt xt fnt xt xt xt xt x t t yt x t vt xx fx xx x 
     1 where f b is a non-linear mapping x d 1 and x d 2 are Boolean states that indicate normal and faulty conditions respectively. The paramter x c is the continuous-valued state that represents the fault dimension w  t  v  t  mean Gaussian noise signals n  t s independent and identically distributed \(i.i.d.\form white noise and 002 is a time-varying model parameter that describes the propagation of the fault dimension under a fatigue stress dependent on the loading profile that is being applied to the specimen under consideration This approach provides a recursively updated estimate of the probability for each fault condition considered in the analysis. These estimated probabilities may activate alarm indicators if they exceed appr opriate thresholds for the probability of detection \(typically 90% or 95%\is is a particularly useful approach when the normal operation of a system is defined through a dyna mic state-space model. It is  Sensor Data 003 
 Features performance Feature Extraction 
 Failure Prognosis Figure 10. Proposed architecture for the integration of diagnostics and prognostics 
  
200 250 200 250 2 4 x 10 3 
002\003 
 


100 500 800 0.01 
200 300 600 900 1000 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.1 
700 
400 
  9 also important to note that this diagnostic framework allows for estimation of each of th e system\222s continuous-valued states as a probability density function \(pdf\The states are computed at the moment of fault detection, and provided as initial conditions to the prognostic routines, thus giving a suitable insight to the inherent uncertainty in the prediction problem When a fault is detected, the prognostic algorithm is activated. Prognosis may be understood as the result of the procedure where long-term \(multi-step\\226 describing the evolution in time of a fault indicator\226 are generated with the purpose of estimating the remaining useful life \(RUL\failing component/subsystem. Several approaches related to prognosis may be found in the literature. Few of them, however, offer appropriate tools for real-time estimation of the RUL as a continuous function of time A two-level procedure has been developed to address the failure prognosis problem. This procedure intends to reduce the uncertainty associated with long-term predictions by using the current state pdf es timate and a nonlinear dynamic state-space model. In the first level p step ahead predictions are generated based on an a priori estimate, adjusting their associated probabilities accord ing to the noise model structure. A second level uses these predictions and the definition of critical thresholds to estimate the RUL pdf also referenced to as the time-to-failure pdf When the prognosis algorithm is implemented, the pdf of fault detection is used as th e initial pdf to run the prognostic algorithm. The model for prognosis is developed using a Paris Law realtionship. For the bearings in focus, a fault is modeled as a quantified surface area of defect, denoted as D such that n DC d t dD D  0 
0 0 
Time \(min Spall Size \(mm 2   Interpolation of spall size groundtruth spall size snapshot with data available 
006  006 3 Results with Surrogate Bearing Data The following results are applied to the surrogate bearing data set only, since the fault size \(ground truth\s available for this data set. As indicated earlier, 32 vibration snapshots are present in this data set, with 16 baseline \(healthy\ata points and eight poi nts from each of two \(spall Hence, 32 feature values are generated. To run failure prognosis, artificial data in-between these data points must be generated. The available vibration data correspond to different service hours. From these points, we interpolate the data according to service tim e in terms of minutes. This way, enough data points can be generated to run the failure prognosis algorithms. Figure 11 shows the ground truth data and times of available vibration snapshots. Interpolation of the ground truth points is used to assign spall sizes to the vibration snapshots. Figure 12 shows the time-based interpolation of feature values. From these two interpolations, we can estimate the expected feature values corresponding to different fault sizes and generate a feature progression curve as shown in Figure 13 Results of Failure Prognosis  Since the data is interpolated in terms of minutes, the RUL expectation and 95% confidence interval are also given in minutes. Long-term predictions are provided after fault is detected and using the current estimate for the state pdf as initial condition. Results are depicted in Figure 14 through Figure 16 Figure 14 shows the minute at which the fault is detected Before this time instant, the prognostic routines are disabled. As soon as the fault is detected, the pdf estimates at that time are used as the initial conditions for the prognostic routines, as shown in Figure 15. When a new measurement comes in, th e prognostic algorithms will provide an estimate of the remaining useful life. Figure 16 shows the result at the 350 th minute The comparison between actual time-to-failure and estimated time-to-failure is shown in Figure 17. The red vertical line is the time at which the system fails, while the black line is the actual time-to-failure. The magenta line is the expected value of the estim ated pdf and the blue line is defined as the lower bound of the 95% \(just-in-time window around the expected valu    Figure 11. Timeline showing ground truth points and interpolated spall sizes for available vibration snapshots 
 2  which states that the rate of defect growth is related to the instantaneous defect area D under a steady operating condition C 0 and n are material dependent coefficients. In discrete time form, we have 
 0     n D t t Dt tC Dt 
 


100 600 100 Just-in-time line 
100 1000 0.1 Interpolation of feature value with noise 
900 
Time \(min Spall Size \(mm 2  Interpolation of spall growth according to feature values 
500 
Expected 
Time \(min Feature Value   
Actual Remaining Life  Figure 17. Results of failure prognosis 
Healthy Failure 
100 1000 0.02 
400 800 
0 0 0 0 0 0 1 
200 300 400 600 700 800 900 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 Interpolation of feature vlaue 
200 300 400 500 600 700 800 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 
200 300 500 700 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 
  10  Figure 12. Interpolation of fault dimension and feature vector  Figure 13. Interpolation of fault dimension according to feature values  Figure 14. Diagnostic result when a fault is detected  Figure 15. Initial prognostic estimation right after the fault is first detected  Figure 16. Failure prognosis at the 350 th minute of bearing operation snapshot with ground truth data 
Remaining Life \(min Current Time \(min  
 


  11 C ONCLUSIONS  This paper shows that enhancements to diagnostic techniques are desirable as well as attainable additions to Health and Usage Monitoring Systems \(HUMS particularly in the case of rotorcraft component monitoring Enhancements like those presented support CBM efforts primarily in two ways: reduce the sensitivity of diagnostic processes to both signal noise and variations in environmental and operating conditions, and improve the performance of detection systems as well as the task of fault identification \(e.g., severity quantification\ towards the instantiation of reliable prognostics Representative examples, motivat ed by the interest of the U.S. Army in transitioning from time-based \(using TBO definitions\o condition-based maintenance for an H-60 drive train bearing, illustrates the potential benefits of pursuing an integrated approach to diagnostics and prognostics, combining technologies for enhanced data preprocessing, advanced diagnostic-support algorithms, fusion at the sensor/feature levels, and an adequate framework for false alarm mitigation and uncertainty management. An architecture for achieving such in tegration is presented, with emphasis on supporting a robust performance of diagnostics operations, even in the presence of such kinds of disturbances as those observed in data acquired by HUMS vibration sensors. The present study also gives relevance to seeded fault\ testing of helicopter drive train components because the technologies disc ussed can integrate knowledge about damage mechanism interactions or physics-of-failure models, as well as make use of multiple-sensor and multiple-feature data sets re presentative of known fault conditions For this reason, the team behind this project is evaluating a potential opportunity to perform a series of tests on rotorcraft drive train bearings with varying fault severities and under multiple, though rea listic, operating conditions Such tests are being planned to provide algorithm/model validations, as well as diagnostic/prognostic performance assessments, in support of providing the U.S. Army with technologies that make detection systems more robust allow for the implementation of prognostics, and extend the useful life of drive train components. Component degradation testing thus remains as future, follow-up work to the research reported in this document A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  This work has been partially supported with a cooperative agreement by the Army Research Laboratory under contract number W911NF-07-2-0075. In addition to the primary authors, we would like to thank government and contractor representatives from organizations supporting the Army Utility \(Blackhawk\Program Manager including Mr. Don Estes, Mr. Carlos Rivera, and Dr. Jon Keller. This work has also benefitted greatly from consultations with other Army Research Laboratory and NASA Glenn researchers such as Dr. Timothy Krantz, Dr. David Lewicki, Dr. Harry Decker Dr. Hiralal Khatri, Mr. Ken Ranney and Mr. Kwok Tom R EFERENCES   Branhof, R.W Grabill, P., Grant, L and Keller J.A 223Application of Automated Rotor Smoothing Using Continuous Vibration Measurements\224. American Helicopter Society 61 st annual forum, Grapevine, Texas June 1\2263, 2005 2 Do ra, R., W r ig h t J., Hess, R., an d Bo yd stu n   B 223Utility of the IMD HUMS in an Operational Setting on the UH60L Blackhawk\224. American Helicopter Society 60 th  annual forum, Baltimore, Maryland, May 7\22610, 2004  Zakrajsek, J.J., Dem p sey, P J., et al. \223Rotorcraft Health Management Issues and Challenges\224. NASA report TM\227 2006-214022. February, 2006   Suggs, D.T., and W a de, D.R 223Vi b rat i on B a sed Maintenance Credits for the UH-60 Oil Cooler Fan Assembly\224. American Helicopter Society, CBM Specialists Meeting, Huntsville, Alabama, February 13 2008   Baker C Marble, S., Morton, B.P., and Sm ith, B.J 223Failure Modes and Prognostic Techniques for H-60 Tail Rotor Drive System Bearings\224. IEEEAC paper #1122 IEEE, 2007  Keller, J.A., Branhof, R., Dunaway, D., and Grabill P 223Examples of Condition Based Maintenance with the Vibration Management Enhancement Program\224 American Helicopter Society 61 st Annual Forum Grapevine, Texas, June 1 \226 3, 2005   Zhang, B Scony ers, C B y i ngt on C S Pat r i c k R  Orchard, M.E., and Vachtsevanos, G.J. \223Anomaly Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of Unanticipated Faults\224. In ternational Conference on Prognostics and Health Management, Denver, Colorado October 6-9, 2008 8 Byin g t o n  C.S., W a tso n  M., Lee, H., an d Ho llin s M 223Sensor-level Fusion to Enhance Health and Usage Monitoring Systems\224. Ameri can Helicopter Society, 64 th  Annual Forum, Montreal, Canada, April 29-May 1, 2008   Engel S.J., Gi l m art i n B J., B ongort K and Hess A 223Prognostics, the Real Issues Involved With Predicting Life Remaining\224. Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, Montana, March 18-25, 2000 
 


  12 B IOGRAPHY  Romano Patrick is a Project Manager at Impact Technologies. He received a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology specializing in model-based machine health diagnostics and prognostics. He also holds an MBA from Georgia Tech and degrees from U Texas, Arlington and U. Panamericana, Mexico. With career focus on interdisciplinary integration of technologies, his recent work involves practicable diagnostics/prognostics design for complex systems, such as rotorcraft drive trains Past experience includes automation and design for a variety of industrial and government sponsors \(DARPA, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, etc.\, graduate professorship and program coordination at U. Panamericana, and some entrepreneurial R&D Matthew J. Smith is a Senior Project Engineer at Impact Technologies. During his tenure with Impact, Matthew has performed multiple efforts pertaining to bearing vibration analysis, diagnostic and prognostic system development, and experimental study of faulted system reponse and fault progression. Previously, as a research assistant at Penn State and the NASA Glenn Research Center, Matthew performed experimental and analytical oil-free bearing analyses Matthew received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from The Pennsylvania State University. His research interests include: prognostic health assessment for bearing and actuator systems grease degradation modeling and fault classifier development Bin Zhang received his Ph.D. degree from Nanyang Technological University, Singapor e in 2007. He received his BE and MSE degrees from Nanjing University of Science and Technology, China, in 1993 and 1999, respectively. He is a senior member of IEEE. From 2005 to present, he has been a Post-Doc with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta GA His current research interests are fault diagnosis and failure prognosis, systems and control, digital signal processing learning control, intelligent sy stems and their applications to robotics, power electronics and various mechanical systems Carl S. Byington is a Professional Engineer and the Director of Systems Engineering at Impact Technologies. He directs R&D in pursuit of advanced, automated systems health management for land-based, shipboard, and airborne machinery for military and comme rcial customers. He is Chairman of the Machinery Diagnostics & Prognostics Committee of ASME and a member of IEEE, AIAA, SAE and AHS. He has a BS degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and an MS in Aeronautical Engineering from George Washington University, and has published over 60 papers, book chapters, magazine and journal articles related to diagnostics and prognostics technologies George Vachtsevanos is Professor Emeritus at the Georgia Institute of Technology and also serves as the Chief Scientist at Impact Technologies, LLC. He directed the Intelligent Control Systems laboratory at Georgia Tech for the past 28 years where faculty and students are conducting research in fault diagnosis/prognosis and fault-tolerant control of engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial processes, neurotechnology and cardiotechnology, and unmanned systems. His research work has been sponsored by government and industry and has published over 250 technical papers in his area of expertise. He is the lead author of a book on "Inte lligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis of Engineering Systems" published by Wiley in 2006. He is the recipient of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Activities aw ard and the ECE Distinguished Professor award Romeo de la Cruz del Rosario, Jr is the Chief of the Electronics Technology Branch at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. He also serves as the Army Technology Objective ATO\ Manager for Prognostics and Diagnostics \(P&D\ for Operational Readiness and C ondition Based Maintenance He received the B.E.E. degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and the M.S.E. and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Since 1991 he has been an engineer at the Harry Diamond Laboratory then U.S Army Research Laboratory working in several areas including high power microwave technology characterization & modeling of heterostructure RF devices and fabrication and failure analysis of electron devices and circuits  
 


 13 Analysis of Model A The analysis of Model A gave varying results owing to the variation in the profiles of the plan view and the sectional side view. The sectional side view is diamond type unlike that of Model B which is convex in shape. Both are however, ideal supersonic airfoils The sectional side view of Model A shows a rise in pressure behind the shock wave. This is because of the oblique shock wave formation around the compression corners. A drop in pressure is noticed at the expansion corner due to the formation of expansion fan at the convex corners The top view of Model A, when analyzed in Fluent gave the following contours. Formation of a high pressure region ahead of the wing profile sh ows the formation of a bow wave. This may induce very high wave drag and may not be a good optimized model    
 


 14 Analyses of Model C Analyses of Model C were done at Mach 1 to avoid divergence in the solution. The following results were obtained. The analyzed cont our clearly shows a high pressure region ahead of the nose This is the detached shock wave that is formed as seen in the shadowgraph. A region of high pressure exists after the detached shock      
 


 15      7  C ONCLUSION  The results from experimental theoretical and software analysis validate the fabricated models to work well over the supersonic regimes. Models A and B have reduced shock strength. This advantage could be explored in the design of a transcontinental supersonic passenger airliner. The models prove to be aerodynamically efficient and have lesser wave drag However, there were a few shortcomings in this approach The fabrication of such an ai rliner at a bigger scale could 
 


 16 prove to be a challenging task. Installation of engines would have to be looked into from a different aspect This work could be extended to study various other complicated supersonic aircraft profiles; the distribution of pressure, shock pattern and shock strength can be studied Unless efforts are continued on this regard, the viability of an efficient supersonic airc raft is likely to languish  R EFERENCES  1  United States Patent - 4828204 , Supersonic  Airplane by Gottfried O. Friebel, Bellevue, Wash  2 United States Patent \226 5518204, High Efficiency Supersonic Aircraft \226 Richard.R.Tracy  3  Jones, R., 1991. \223The Flying Wing Supersonic Transport.\224 Aeronautical Journal March    A b o o k o n Gas Dy nam i c by  R a t h i n a k ri s hna n    A st udy of Detache d S h oc k wave in 2-D  by Morton      Alperin, CALTECH, 1950 6 In trodu ction to fligh t  b y Ja m e s And e rson   Ai rcra ft De si gn  by  J o hn P F i e l d i ng  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The author wishes to express his hearty appreciation to all those people who have been instrumental in successful completion of this work. The author wishes to thank the principal, Dr. J. Shanmugam and management of Velammal Engineering College for their continual support. In particular, the author wishes to mention Mr Vickneshkumar, who has been a source of constant support throughout the project and Mr. Murugan for his kind cooperation and help during the fabrication of the models The author is indebted to Mr. Palani, IIT Madras for his invaluable guidance on FLUENT software and Dr Muruganandam, IIT Madras for his kind permission to conduct the tests in the wind tunnel facility at IIT Last but not the least; the author extends his warm thanks to his father, Mr. Arun Banerjee and his family who have been a great moral support throughout the course of this work       BIOGRAPHY Arijeet Banerjee is a Bachelor of Engineering \(Mechanical Engin eering\ student at Velammal Engineering College, Anna University, Chennai  India. He has completed his senior secondary schooling under the Central Board of Secondary Education. A keen aerospace enthusiast has taken part and won various competitions at both state and national levels. Visit the author at www.arijeetbanerjee.synthasite.com  
 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





