  1 GOES Direct Broadcast Service History and Future Andrew W. Royle and William M. Callicott GOES-R Ground Segment Project Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt, MD 20771 301-286-0813 andrew.w.royle@nasa.gov; william.m.callicott@nasa.gov  Abstract 227The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's \(NOAA ostationary Operational Environmental Satellites \(GOES\ave provided direct broadcast of meteorological data to users since the mid1970s.  For the newest GOES series, GOES-R, GOES Rebroadcast \(GRB\will replace the GOES Variable GVAR\ to continue to make ground-processed sensor data available to the weather operations, research and Earth science communities on a free and open basis 
The GOES-R Series will collect up to 50 times more data than current GOES satellites th rough instruments capable of advanced temporal, spatial, and spectral performance Processed data will be broadcast to the user community with improved latency and enhanced resolution when compared to the current system 12   This paper describes the history of previous direct broadcast implementations for GOES satellites and the concept for the new GOES-R GRB data link.  A dual polarization approach will be used to accommodate the 31 Mbps data rate within a frequency bandwidth constraint of 12MHz using a standard downlink modulation at 1690 MHz \(L-band\B processed instrument data source will be packetized compliant with Consultativ e Committee for Space Data 
Systems \(CCSDS\standard 133.0-B-1 and will utilize lossless data compression to fit within allocated bandwidth Data blocking and accompanying header metadata will be used to minimize risk of loss due to link errors and allow for user verification of data integrity.  To aid user transition, an emulated GVAR \(eGVAR ice will be provided via non-operational GOES-N/P seri es satellite transponders  Rebroadcast using dual circular polarization from geostationary orbit at L-band is a new implementation for NOAA satellite operations.  This paper includes a discussion of the analysis and activities performed to date to reduce the implementation risk of the GOES-R GRB, and the impact of the significantly enhanced direct broadcast capability for current GOES users T ABLE OF 
C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  GOES  D IRECT B ROADCAST H ISTORY 2  3  GRB  C HARACTERISTIC 4  4 IMPACT TO CURRENT USERS 6  5 
 R ISK R EDUCTION A CTIVITIES 7  1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1397, Version 3, Updated January 8, 2009 6 CONCLUSIONS  8  R EFERENCES  8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  8  
B IOGRAPHY  8  1  I NTRODUCTION  The National Oceanic and At mospheric Administration NOAA tes a constellation of Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellites GOES\ The first geostationary meteorological satellite Applications Technology Sate llite \(ATS-1 1966 and provided hemispheric views of clouds in the visible spectrum every 20 minutes. Beginning in 1974 NOAA and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration \(NASA\laboration on the GOES series of satellites.  Since then, GOES satellites have transitioned from spin-stabili 
zed satellites rotating at 100 revolutions per minute to three-axis stabilized designs 1994\ding continuous visible and infrared \(IR coverage of the Western Hemi  The current operational GOES se ries \(GOES-I/M\ and the follow-on GOES-N/P satellites provide visible and IR imagery through two instruments- a five channel imaging radiometer \(Imager\that measures emitted radiation in one visible and 18 infrared \(thermal different atmospheric levels Additionally, solar and space weather data is provided through a suite of solar X-ray and energetic particle sensors, and a magnetomete  Current GOES satellites provide direct broadcast of meteorological data to users through the GOES Variable 
GVAR\ link, a transponded service at L-band rebroadcast through the GOES satellites.  GOES-East stationed at 75\260W longitude, provides coverage to users in both North and South America and parts of Western Europe.  GOES-West, at 135\260W longitude, provides coverage throughout the western parts of North and South America and throughout the Paci fic Ocean and Pacific Rim as far west as New Zealand.  An on-orbit standby GOES satellite is located at 105\260W The next generation of NOAA geostationary satellites known as GOES-R, is currently under development by a joint NOAA and NASA team and is scheduled for initial launch readiness in 2015.  GOES-R series satellites will provide greatly increased temporal and spatial resolution of meteorological data.  A ne w spacecraft bus design and 
 


  2 ground system will support mission operations of the system and generation and distribution of data and products in near-real time to the user community through GOES Rebroadcast \(GRB The GOES-R series will have significantly enhanced instruments over current GOES satellites.  The GOES-R Advanced Baseline Imager \(ABI\rovide 16 spectral bands in the visible, near-IR and IR spectrum, compared to the 5 channels of the current Imager.  The ABI is able to produce data with up to four times greater horizontal resolution \(at nadir, 0.5 km vi sible, 1 km near-IR, and 2 km IR\e same time, the ABI will be able to complete a Full Disk \(hemispheric\age refresh in periods as short as 5 minutes, compared to 26 minutes with the current Imager The ABI provides additional flexibility by allowing additional scan modes to be invoked simultaneously, with Continental United States \(CONUS\ 5 minutes and 1000x1000 km mesoscale scans every   Table 1 summarizes the enhan cements associated with GOES-R direct broadcast in comparison to current GOES Table 1 GOES Direct Broadcast Capabilities  GVAR GOES I-P  GRB GOES-R  Full Disk Image 30 minutes 5 minutes \(Mode 4 15 min \(Mode 3 Other modes Rapid Scan Super Rapid Scan 3000 km x 5000 km CONUS: 5 min Multiple concurrent 1000 km x 1000 km Mesoscale: one every 30 sec Polarization Linear Dual circular polarized Receive Frequency 1685.7 MHz L-band 1690 MHz \(L-band Packetization GVAR Blocks \(0-11 CCSDS 133.0-B-1 Data Compression None Lossless Data Rate 2.11 Mbps 30 Mbps Antenna Coverage Earth coverage to 5\260 Earth coverage to 5\260 Data Sources Imager and Sounder ABI \(16 bands SEISS, EXIS, SUVI MAG Space Weather 100kbps separate link 2 Mbps Lightning Data None 0.5 Mbps  Unlike the GOES-I/M and GOES-N/P series, GOES-R spacecraft do not contain a Sounder.  However, a Geostationary Lightning Mapper \(GLM\will greatly improve storm hazard identification and increase warning lead-time during both day and night, providing continuous monitoring of lightning activity.  Additionally, the satellite will contain a similar, but more powerful, suite of solar ultraviolet imaging and space weather monitoring equipment in comparison to previous GOES satellites 2  GOES  D IRECT B ROADCAST H ISTORY  The GOES ground-based data handling history started with photographic processing and eventually led to digital data transmission over GOES satellite transponders.  The first GOES image transmissions were captured on film recorders that exposed the negative f ilm to photomultiplier light intensities.  Muirhead recorders were modified to rotate in sync with the 100 rpm GOES spin scan data rate.  At the end of a picture scan sequence, the film cartridge was removed from the recorder for developing.   The process operated on a 24x7 basis.  Following development, the images were transported by van to local user sites.  During this period, product latency was measured in hours rather than minutes.  An example of the early Muirh ead images is shown in Figure 1  Figure 1 226  1977 Muirhead image from SMS-2  One novel aspect of this pr ocess was that the Satellite Applications Lab developed a process working with the Satellite Photo Lab where consecutive images could be copied to 16mm film with each frame repeated 3 or 4 times The 16mm frames would contain about six hours of 30 minute GOES satellite images, co mprising a loop that could be displayed. This short film segment formed the predecessor of today\222s widely disseminated digital loops Pre-GVAR Even prior to the first GOES satellite, direct broadcast of weather data to user stations was a capability of NOAA 
 


  3 satellites.  SMS-1, launche d in 1974, provided direct rebroadcast of processed images and weather maps to users through a transponded Weather Facsimile \(WEFAX\analog signal.  Mode A rebroadcast provided 6-bit visible imagery and 8-bit infrared imagery beginning in 1974 and continuing through 1987.  The process of satellite imagery moved from film to digital ingest with new computer technologies in 1983.  Later, a Mode AA was defined and used for research, but never operationally   In 1987 Mode AAA began to broadcast data from the satellite\222s primary instrument, the Vi sible Infrared Spin Scan Radiometer \(VISSR modified to operate as a combined imager and sounder, the VISSR Atmospheric Sounder \(VAS\itted in a repeating sequence of twelve fixed-length equal sized blocks and transmitted in synchronization with the 100 revolutions per mi AAA rem a ined the primary mode of rebroadcast of GOES satellite data until the advent of GVAR cap abilities with the launch of GOES-8 \(GOES-I\n 1994 GVAR Currently, operational GOES satellites provide Level 1b products directly to users through the GVAR format Level 1b data is instrument source data \(Level 0\th radiometric and geometric correction applied to produce parameters in physical units.\ 1b products are based on processed data that have had radiometric and geometric correction applied.  Essentially, the output of each instrument channel collected through a series of scan lines across the Earth scene has been converted to the corresponding input radiance and reconstructed into an 221image\222, which is registered to an Earth-reference grid Level 1b products contain parameters in physical units rather than the raw detector measurements of unprocessed instrument data The structure of GVAR has its basis in the Mode AAA format described above.  Maintaining a similar structure and timing for GVAR helped ease the transition of Mode AAA users to GVAR and minimized the need for receive equipment modifications.  GVAR retains the twelve block structure and header format of AAA, and its timing aligns with the 100 revolutions per minute spin rate of the earlier GOES satellites [5 Over time, the GVAR format has gradually been modified to provide increased capability to users by utilizing spare fields in the format.  GOES-I through L supported GVAR versions 0 and 1.  With GOES-M and N, GVAR v2 modified the imager IR channel order and shifted the spectral response of the water vapor channel.  For GOES-O and P, GVAR v3 adds data fro m a new eighth IR detector part of the replacement of the 8 km sensor with two 4 km units.  Each version of GVAR describes the transmission of the associated satellite, but it also includes descriptions for prior versions GVAR v3 contains data from the IR and visible channels of the GOES Imager and Sounder.  Imager data is contained in Blocks 1-10 of the GVAR transmission, and Sounder data resides in a series of Block 11s.  Additional Block 11 blocks can be used to transmit calibration, telemetry, and other auxiliary data.  Table 2 below describes the allocation of Imager data to GVAR Blocks Table 2 GVAR Channel and Block Allocations Imager Channel GVAR v3 Block Wavelengt h m Meteorological Use 1 3-10 Visible Daytime cloud cover 2 1 3.9 Nighttime cloud cover 3 1 6.75 or 6.5 Water vapor 4 2 10.7 Earth & cloud images; sea surface temp; water vapor 5 GOES-I/N 2 12.0 Cloud cover cloud height 8 km IGFOV 6 GOES-O/P 2 13.3 Cloud cover cloud height 4 km IGFOV N/A 0 N/A Instrument Status Reference Data N/A 11 N/A Soundings and auxiliary data  GVAR is generated from raw instrument data at the Wallops, VA Command and Data Acquisition Station WCDAS Processing System \(SPS GVAR is modulated via a binary phase shift keying scheme and uplinked to the GOES satellite at 2027.7 MHz.  The signal is transponded on-board the satellite and downlinked at 1685.7 MHz via the satellite\222s Earth coverage antenna In GVAR v3, data is transmitted at a 2.11 Mbps rate GVAR data is encoded in the SPS using a pseudo-random noise \(PN\ng method and then passed through a non-return-to-zero space \(NRZ S process to increase the robustness of the data and reduce susceptibility to errors. Error mitigation is further enhanced through the use of a 16-bit cyclic redundancy check block    A 2003 analysis by NOAA\222s Office of Systems Development \(OSD\ndicated that over 150 GVAR sites were in operation ranging from Ne w Zealand in the Far East to Spain and France in Western Europe.  A significant user presence outside of the U.S. al so exists in the Caribbean Canada, and Latin America.  Mobile GVAR capabilities in use by the U.S. Navy and U.S. Air Force account for additional GVAR receive stations  
 


  4 sample of GVAR receive locations in the Western Hemisphere in relation to the GOES constellation  Figure 2 226  Western Hemisphere GVAR Sites  3  GRB  C HARACTERISTICS  Due to the increased data volume driven by increases in spatial and temporal resolution associated with the ABI, a new direct broadcast data format known as GRB is required for the GOES-R series of sp acecraft.  GRB will contain Level 1b data from all GOES-R instruments, providing a common data stream for all GOES users GRB will be generated from processed Level 1b data at WCDAS using a concept of operations similar to that for GVAR today.  While legacy GOES raw data \(i.e. the raw sensor data that is used to produce the rebroadcast data\is on the order of 2.62 Mbps, GOES-R\222s ABI data alone will be approximately 55 Mbps during nominal operations Because of the order of magnitude increases in GOES-R raw data rates, GRB will also require a significant increase over GVAR- from 2.11 Mbps to approximately 30 Mbps In order to accommodate the higher data rate while retaining use of the space-to-Earth meteorological L-band spectrum, two major changes to the GRB link will be implemented: lossless compression will be applied to the data content and dual-polarization will be used to more efficiently utilize the link bandwidth.  The GRB uplink will be transmitted in X-band, at significantly higher frequencies than current GVAR uplink in Sband in order to preserve both L-band and S-band spectrum.  The lossless data compression format for GRB is yet to be determined, and will be finalized during the Ground Segment development GRB Physical Layer Link Characteristics Like GVAR, the GRB downlink will be transmitted in Lband in a 12 MHz bandwidth allocation.  Maintaining Lband usage for GRB broadcast helps to minimize the impact to GRB users\222 receive equipment and antennas.  However in order to maximize the usag e of the bandwidth allocated for the GRB link, GRB will implement a dual polarization approach.  GRB data transm itted to the GOES-R spacecraft for rebroadcast will be linearly polarized at X-band, and GRB data downlinked from the spacecraft will be dual circular polarized L-band Such a design will support up to 31 Mbps of data, which provides sufficient resources for all planned data and a small margin for future growth or additional instrument data Detailed physical layer information on the GRB data link is defined in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations ITAR\ent-to-GOES Rebroadcast Service Interface Requirements Document Characteristics such as modulation and coding are yet to be finalized, and will be coordinated during development of the GRB interface control doc uments between the Space Segment and Ground Segment development efforts.  To provide further details, the GOES-R Product Definition and User\222s Guide will be developed by the GOES-R Ground Segment contractor and will describe the GRB content and format.  The User\222s Guide will contain descriptions of the data link, data stream, field definitions, GRB metadata, and other details necessary for users to recover GRB data from the GRB stream.  This User\222s Guide will be finalized in the GOES-R Ground Segment Critical Design Review timeframe, estimated to be in late  GRB Link Packet Characteristics The GRB content data format will be compliant with the Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems \(CCSDS recommendation 133.0-B-1, \(\223Space Packet Protocol\224 Section 4.1 providing enhanced data reliability.  This recommendation describes a protocol specifically designed for transfer of application data over a space-to-ground or space-to-space communications link The Space Packets described in CCSDS 133.0-B-1 are designed with flexibility to be customizable for individual applications.  The only mandatory structures are a 6 octet header for each Space Packet followed by octets in the Data Zone and an 8 octet secondary header time stamp code.  While the CCSDS recommendation permits up to 65,536 octets in the Space Packet Data Zone, the Data Zone of a GRB Space Packet is constrained to 16,384 octets This constraint limits data corruption in the presence of   The Space Packet header format is also defined in CCSDS 133.0-B-1.  It contains fields that describe the CCSDS Space Packet version number, p acket identification, packet sequence, and packet data length Of special interest in the 
 


  5 GRB link is the 11-bit Application Process Identifier APID\eld contained within the packet identification field.  APIDs provide the logical data path information of packets and are used to indicate packet source,    Idle \(fill packets  broadcast  i n t h e absence of dat a i n a cont i nuous fixed rate broadcast environm ent.  A separate and unique APID will be used for each GRB instrument data type, and may be used to identify individual ABI channels In addition to the mandatory header, the GOES-R GRB format requires a mandatory Cyclical Redundancy Check CRC\end of the Space Packet Data Zone.  This CRC ensure s the integrity of each GRB packet as it is received by the user GRB Data Contents GRB is a real time stream broad cast at a rate consistent with the GOES-R Ground Segment generation of Level 1b products.  The GRB downlink will provide data via a left and right-hand circular polarization \(LHCP/RHCP transmission scheme.  The LHCP portion of the downlink will contain L1b data from the ABI in the 0.64 m visible band and in six IR bands \(3.9, 6.185, 7.34, 11.2, 12.2, and 13.3 m\.  The selection of these bands is designed to provide data aligned with, but not identical to, current GVAR, with the addition of the 7.34 and 12.2 m bands that are not generated by the current GOES Imager instrument.  Allocating these channels within one pole of the dual polarization scheme has the advantage of allowing users needing only the legacy spectral coverage to invest in a simpler and less-costly si ngle polarity receive system  Figure 3 226  Emulated ABI data in  The RHCP downlink portion will contain additional ABI data in the 0.47, 0.865, 1.378, 1.61, 2.25, 6.95, 8.5, 9.6, and 10.35 m bands.  Figure 3 above provides a visualization of the 16-channel images that Level 1b ABI data will provide using the full dual-polarity scheme.  Additionally, the RHCP transmission of GRB will contain GLM lightning event, group, and flash data along with space weather data generated by the GOES-R Solar Ultraviolet Imager \(SUVI Extreme ultraviolet and X-ra y Irradiance Sensor \(EXIS Space Environment In-Situ Suite \(SEISS\and Magnetometer.  The direct broadcast of space weather data via GRB replaces the legacy Multi-use Data Link \(MDL service which broadcasts Solar X-ray Imager \(SXI\data from current GOES.  The inclusion of GLM and Space Weather processed scan level data to the user community significantly increases the timelin ess of such data to weather operational analysts GRB Information Packets In addition to normal data, GRB will transmit an Information Packet every 5 minutes.  GRB Information Packets contain a minimum of the following information o ABI operations mode o ABI coverage scheduling information o Instrument Calibration Data \(e.g., ABI component temperatures, calibration coeffi cients, lunar scans for Level 1b processing o Messages for non-operational \(e.g., diagnostic\nstrument modes o Conversion tables such as radiance to brightness temperature for ABI imaging o Events \(current or planned\hat impact data coverage GRB Information Packets will also contain Instrument Calibration Data needed for L1b processing for all GOES-R instruments.  GRB Information Packets will be identified in the GRB data stream by specific APIDs and will be used to support user operations and generation of higher level products GRB Metadata Metadata for Level 1b products will be appended to the Level 1b products and will include at least the following o Uncorrectable errors propagated from the raw data o Algorithm software version o Instrument serial number o Level 1b product quality metrics The final structure and content for GRB metadata is yet to be determined, but GOES-R metadata is required to comply with common International Organization for Standardization \(ISO\etadata standards and to include metadata attributes that are generated as part of legacy GOES products GRB Operational Usage GRB\222s primary function is to provide direct broadcast of GOES-R Level 1b data to the operational community However, GRB also plays a ke y role as the primary means of transferring GOES-R data between the WCDAS and the NOAA Satellite Operations Facility \(NSOF terrestrial communications link for the transfer of GRB data is planned.  Instead, at NSOF Level 1b data is received via the GRB downlink and processed into higher order 
 


  6 products.  A wide range of Level 2 and higher-level atmospheric, ocean, and land products are generated at NSOF using the Level 1b data provided by GRB GOES-R operators at NSOF will also conduct GRB product monitoring activities using the received Level 1b downlink The status of the GRB link, data and imagery quality instrument radiometric perfo rmance, and all instrument performance quality will be monitored and assessed by the GOES-R Ground Segment on a continuous basis.  The product monitoring system will in clude tools that replicate the capabilities of a typical GRB operational user, while including advanced monitoring capabilities such as automated signal quality monitoring.  The landmarking process used for legacy GOES navigation determination is replaced by autonomous na vigation processes using spacecraft orbit and attitude knowledge.  This knowledge is enhanced by instrument refined pointing knowledge However, the landmarking process  will continue as a product monitoring tool, which can use the Level 1b source data as received from GRB to monitor image navigation and registration \(INR\performan ce.  Unlike current GOES GOES-R series spacecraft will determine its orbit and attitude on-board and provide that information to the instruments to factor into the instrument INR process performed on the ground, resulting in highly accurate INR without the need for continual landmarking In addition to product deliv ery, GRB will provide a capability for satellite operators to perform ranging to the GOES-R satellites.  This range measurement will be input into the satellite orbit determination function.  However due to the tight station-keeping requirements of GOES-R spacecraft, it is expected that GRB ranging will primarily be used as a backup capability and monitoring tool Since GRB is needed for the generation of higher level products, it requires a high operational availability.  A backup GRB data stream is generated by the GOES-R Remote Backup \(RBU\he system is capable of switching autonomously from primary to backup operations within 5 minutes in order to minimize data loss 4 IMPACT TO CURRENT USERS  Equipment Upgrades Current GVAR users will be required to upgrade existing receive hardware and software in order to receive and ingest GRB.  At a minimum, new receive hardware to support the circular polarized signal, and new computer hardware and software upgrades will be required to utilize the improved  e users m a y initially choose to only upgrade equipment to receive LH CP GRB data in order to minimize the cost of the upgrade.  Others, such as the space weather community, may choose to only implement a RHCP receive system to obtai n the data available on that polarization.  Since the dir ect broadcast of space weather data relies on GRB rather than a separate space weatherspecific link \(MDL\those in the space weather community that choose to receive direct broadcast of the data will require a new receive implemen tation regardless of whether one or both polariza tions are received Emulated GVAR In order to help mitigate issu es associated with the GVARGRB transition, GOES-R will be designed to support an emulated GVAR \(eGVAR ce that will be transponded via a non-operational GOES-N/P series spacecraft while a spacecraft with transmission cap ability remains available The GOES-R Ground Segment will provide selected reduced-resolution GOES-R ABI data approximating the legacy Imager spectral covera ge wavelengths and refresh rates to the GOES-N/P Ground System for rebroadcast transmission in GVAR format The eGVAR signal will be generated by GOES-R as an intermediate frequency signal, and sent to the GOES-I/P ground systems for rebroadcast via a non-imaging legacy GOES satellite. eGVAR data will be based on current GVAR products and derived from the ABI 0.64 m visible band and IR bands at, 3.9, 6.19, 11.2, and 13.3 m, which provide cloud cover, water va por, sea surface temperatures and cloud height information.  Since GOES-R does not have a sounder, eGVAR will not contain any sounder data eGVAR data is generated every 30 minutes based on a single ABI Full Disk scan.  Its format will comply with the GVAR v3 format provided by the GOES-O/P spacecraft The intent of eGVAR is to provide a contingency capability to support the needs of current users to transition to the new GRB receive and ingest system s, particularly if a mixed constellation is operational without a GRB-capable on-orbit spare satellite.  Note that the eGVAR service is intended as a temporary risk-reduction measure for legacy GVAR users Since it depends on the availability of a non-imaging but still serviceable GOES-I/P series mission, continuous eGVAR service cannot be guaranteed by NOAA A significant user concern in GVAR-GRB transition is a scenario where GOES-R becomes operational, and later once users have modified th eir antennas N/P series satellite is forced back into operations due to a GOES-R anomaly.  This would force users to either lose data continuity or to maintain multiple sets of antenna receive hardware.  Currently NOAA\222s concept of operations for GOES-R supports a plan to launch into a storage mode after a period of on-orbit checkout.  The requirement for eGVAR would be limited in su ch a scenario, since GOES-R would not become operational until after a successful subsequent launch.  However, the ultimate plan for GOESR transition remains to be coordinated between NOAA and the GOES user community.  Figure 4 below provides a graphical illustration of nominal GRB operations as currently envisioned 
 


  7  Figure 4 226  Planned Concept of Operations for GRB and eGVAR   5  R ISK R EDUCTION A CTIVITIES  Recent work by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology\222s Lincoln Laboratory \(MIT-LL\investigated the potential for using a commercial off-t he-shelf Digital Video Broadcast \(DVB\ to receive and demodulate the received GRB data.  In the MIT-LL research, a commercial DVB-S2 receiver designed for r eceipt of satellite television broadcasts was used to demonstrate the feasibility of a dualpolarized L-band receiver for GRB.  The implementation was shown to have potential for a relatively low-cost upgrade package for existing GVAR users, although further research is planned to explore the impact of moving towards a more non-standard, GRB-like implementation \(such as using CCSDS data content packetization in conjunction with the DVB transport protocol  MIT-LL is also in the pro cess of characterizing the performance of dual circular polarized downlink performance in L-band \(at 1.544 GHz\ance and availability of the GRB downlink in rain conditions presents a concern, and no previous studies have been identified that charact erize a cross-polarization approach in the 1.6 GHz range.  This study combines the search and rescue \(SAR\ink signal from the current GOES-West operational satellite with custom developed MIT-LL hardware and software designed to emulate a dual circular polarized downlink.  Testing occurred at the Wallops, VA Command and Data Acquisition Station \(WCDAS demonstrated that, in all but th e heaviest of rain cases, the effects of dispersion of the cross-polarized signal should not have a significant impact on the availability of the GRB downlink.  One caveat is the testing occurred with approximately a 15 degree elevation angle to the GOESWest satellite from WCDAS.  GRB users at lower elevation angles may encounter greater degradation than measured in this study, and additional effort will be needed to fully characterize the acceptability of the planned GRB implementation for low-elevation angl  GRB Simulator As part of GOES-R system development activities, the GOES-R Ground Segment will provide a GRB simulator capability to enable the testing of user GRB ingest and handling systems.  The GRB simulator will be stand-alone and transportable, and will contain both data simulation and operator-selectable diagnostic features.  These will include scenario and test pattern definition and user configuration settings.  The GRB simulator will be capable of outputting test data in a realistic manner \(i.e., incrementing date/time and header information\for up to five days without operator intervention.  The simulator will also have the ability to inject errors into the simulated GRB data stream and log test results and simulator events.  Use of the simulators by the 
 


  8 user community will be scheduled through the GOES-R Ground Segment Project on an as-available basis 6 CONCLUSIONS  NOAA has provided a direct satellite transmission of geostationary meteorological data on a free and open basis for over 30 years.  The newest iteration of this service GRB, will be provided by the GOES-R series of satellites GRB with dual circular polarization will provide significantly more data to the user than today\222s GVAR.  The rebroadcast enhancements ar e necessary to accommodate the increased spatial, temporal, and spectral resolution of the GOES-R series instrument suite.  GRB offers significant improvement over current direct broadcast meteorological data, and promises to improve operational weather data use in forecasting throughout the Western Hemisphere However, implementing GRB within the user community will require modernization of terminal receiver equipment and software.  While eGVAR will ease the transition to GRB, users will need to upgrad e hardware and software to take advantage of the improved reliability provided by the CCSDS packet standards and additional data collected by the new instruments.  Up-front planning for GRB by the user community will help ensure users are prepared to take advantage of the significant benefits provided by GOES-R series data through GRB R EFERENCES   G. Davis, \223History of the NOAA satellite program 224 J Applied Remote Sensing, v. 1, 25 January 2007, pp. 1-18   223GOES-NO/P/Q \226 The Next Generation,\224 NASA Publication NP-2001-7-324-GSFC   GOES-R  Seri es C oncept of Operat i ons \(C ONOPS R-CONOPS-0008, ver. 2.3, February 2008 4 Geo s tatio n ary Op eratio n al En v i ro n m en tal Satellite GOES\ide \(preliminary\website http://san.hufs.ac.kr/~gwlee/readme.goes   R J Kom a jda 223NOAA Technical Report NESDIS 82 An Introduction to the GOES I-M Imager and Sounder Instruments and the GVAR Retransmission Format,\224 October 1994  GOES Operations Ground Equipm ent \(OGE Specification, DRL 504-02, Part 1, Revision 1, October 2005 7 an n  an d D. McGin n i s, \223NESDIS OSD GOES GVAR Site List,\224 September 24, 2003   GOES-R Ground Segm ent Project C ont ract Dat a  Requirements List, G417-R-GSCDRL-0146, ver. 1.0 May 2008 9] CCSDS 133.0-B-1: Blue Book 223Space Packet Protocol,\224 Issue 1, September 2003  T. Schm i t 223The AB I \(Advanced B a sel i n e Im ager h e GOES-R Series,\224 Fifth GOES Us ers\222 Conference, January 23, 2008  J.  M odel and R W ezal i s 223Low C o st DVB S2 GR B  Receiver Performance,\224 MIT Lincoln Laboratory SemiAnnual Review, February 22, 2008  J.  M odel J.O. Tay l or, and R W ezal i s 223C rossPolarization Effects and the dual polarization GOES-R GRB link, Wallops Island Testing,\224 MIT Lincoln Laboratory Semi-Annual Review, February 22, 2008 A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The GOES-R Program is a joint effort by NOAA and NASA under development at G oddard Space Flight Center The authors would like to thank John Bristow, Ed Harvie Richard Reynolds, Jim Gurka, and Vanessa Griffin for taking the time to review and comment on this paper Opinions, interpretations, conclusions, and recommendations are those of the authors and are not necessarily endorsed by the United States Government or reflect official GOES-R NOAA, or NASA positions on the topics discussed B IOGRAPHY  Andrew Royle is a systems engineer with Integrity Applications Incorporated and currently supports the GOES-R Ground Segment Project Office at Goddard Space Flight Center. He previously served in the U.S. Air Force as an acquisitions officer at the Space and Missile Systems Center in Los Angeles, CA There, he led the digital processing subsystem risk reduction effort for the TSAT Program. He has also provided communications and software systems engineering support to U.S. Army and intelligence community activities.  Andy holds a BS degree from the United States Air Force Academy and a Master\222s degree in Public Management from the University of Maryland, College Park, where he specialized in Defense Department acquisition policy and international security  
 


  9 Bill Callicott is a systems engineer with SGT, Inc. and currently supports the GOES-R Ground Segment Project Office at Goddard Space Flight Center.  Bill has been involved with NOAA satellite operations since TIROS-I in 1960 After 34 years with NOAA Satellite Service, Bill retired in 1994 and has supported various satellite programs since then.  Bill has been involved in GOES-R requirements development and planning since 2001 
 


  10  
 


 Figure 5. Integrated architecture of mashups and KMS  can improve and simplify the creation as well as the use of widgets for the user, which is important concerning the user participation within the mashup concept The widgets as additional components exist in parallel to the knowledge services of the KMS. Thus the user can use the specific knowledge services and create own mashup applications with Web services and data. The knowledge services themselves could be provided as widgets. Through this process, every tool can be used flexibly. The combination of knowledge services and the created widgets is done in the personalisation services layer respectively the mashup logic. In case all knowledge services are provided as widgets, this layer only consists of the mashup logic Otherwise the layer has to be extended with personalisation services of the KMS. In the end, the access and output layer provides user profiles which regulate access to the actual KMS and the created mashups. The shared knowledge platform helps to diffuse the created mashups. Moreover, the user has the possibility to modify mashups and widgets, so that in the course of time an evolution of the initial mashups occurs  4. Conclusion  The use of Web 2.0 technologies for corporate knowledge management is currently discussed intensely. In this context wikis, blogs and social bookmarking are often mentioned [41]. However, we have shown that mashups also offer interesting possibilities for knowledge management systems We first analysed mashups as an architecture for KMS. Because of the found similarities and differences, an integration of mashups into a classical KMS architecture was examined afterwards. Through this integrated solution, one can benefit from the special features of mashups as well as of KMS Summarising this paper, it can be said that mashups can be applied as an architecture for KMS. Especially the flexible bonding of new data and services by the user himself increases the usability of such systems and supports knowledge intensive processes. The task for future research will be a closer investigation of mashups in concrete knowledge management scenarios. Two general scenarios are possible. In the first scenario, mashups can be used as a KMS in security uncritical scenarios. In the second scenario for a secure handling of data, an integration of mashup functionalities into a KMS has to be examined. Here especially the interaction between the integration services, the knowledge services and the widgets has to be investigated. For the future, the increasing implementation of mashups in corporate applications can be expected, so that the importance of mashups for KMS will be further rising    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 5. References  1] Gartner Group, ?Gartner?s Top 10 Strategic Technologies for Organizations in 2008?, http://seekingalpha.com/article 63601-gartners-top-10-strategic-technologies-for-organizatio ns-in-2008, 2008, retrieved 2008-06-12  


 2] V. Sambamurthy, and M. Subramani, ?Information technologies and knowledge management?, MIS Quarterly Vol. 29, No. 1, 2005, pp. 1-7  3] T. H. Davenport, D. W. De Long, and M. C. Beers Sucessful knowledge management projects?, in the Knowledge Management Yearbook 1999-2000, 2000 pp. 98-107  4] E. Oren, A. Haller, M. Hauswirth, B.  Heitmann S. Decker, and C. Mesnage, ?A Flexible Integration Framework for Semantic Web 2.0 Applications?, in IEEE Software, Vol. 24; No. 5, 2007, pp. 64-71  5] J. Meza, and Q. Zhu, ?Mix, Match, Rediscover: A Mashup Experiment of Knowledge Organization in an Enterprise Environment?, in International Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. 4, Issue 1, 2008, pp. 65-76  6] T. O?Reilly, ?What Is Web 2.0 http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/oreilly/tim/news/2005/09/3 0/what-is-web-20.html, 2005, retrieved 2008-06-12  7] R. Guo, B. B. Zhu, M. Feng, A. Pan, and B. Zhou Compoweb: a component-oriented web architecture?, in Proceeding of the 17th international Conference on World Wide Web, Beijing, China, 2008, pp. 545-554  8] K. E. Kendall, and A. Schmidt, ?Mashups: The Art of Creating New Applications by Combining Two or More Web Sites?, in Decision Line, Vol.  03/07, 2007, pp. 15-16  9] A. Cho, ?An introduction to Mashups for health librariens?, in Journal of the Canadian Health Libraries Association, No. 28,  2007, pp 19-22  10] M. A. Ca  as, J. J. Hierro, V. Hoyer1, T. Janner, D Lizcano, M. Reyes, C. Schroth, and J. Soriano, ?Enterprise Mashup Putting a face on the next generation global SOA in Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Web Information Systems Engineering, 2007  11] G. Gruman, ?Enterprise Mashups?, in InfoWorld Vol. 28, No. 31, 2006, pp. 18-20  12] O. D  az, S. P  rez, and I. Paz, ?Providing Personalized Mashups Within the Context of Existing Web Applications In Lecture Notes in Computer Science, No. 4831, 2007 pp. 493-502  13] D. Linthicum, ?Make mashups secure http://www.infoworld.com/article/07/08/06/32FEmashsec_1 html, 2007, retrieved 2008-06-12  14] S. Kulkarni, ?Enterprise Mashup?, in Proceedings of IndicThreads.com Conference On Java Technology, 2007  15] A. Dornan, ?Enterprise Mashups: Mashed Or HalfBaked??, http://www.networkcomputing.com/immersion soa-ws/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=201804242, 2007 retrieved 2008-06-12  16] P. J. Murray, ?Web 2.0 and social technologies: what might they offer for the future of health informatics?? In the National Health Information System in New Zealand. Health Care and Informatics Review Online, June 2008 http://hcro.enigma.co.nz/website/index.cfm?fuseaction=articl edisplay&amp;FeatureID=010608, retrieved 2008-08-25  17] N. Kulathuramaiyer, ?Mashups: Emerging Application Development Paradigm for a Digital Journal?, Journal of 


Development Paradigm for a Digital Journal?, Journal of Universal Computer Science, Vol. 13, No. 4, 2007 pp. 531-542  18] Serena Software, ?Business mashups - Build and deploy applications without the need for professional developers Whitepaper, http://www.zdnet.co.uk/i/z5/ads/whitpapers Serena/2008_q1/Serena%20business-mashups-Q12008.pdf 2007, retrieved 2008-06-12  19] Proto Software, ?Mashups - Understanding Mashup Building Platforms for Business Applications http://www.zdnet.de/itmanager/whitepapers/0,39026294,880 11773p-39002281q,00.htm, 2007  20] H. Markquis, ?The Rise of Shadow IT http://www.cioupdate.com/reports/article.php/11050_363305 6_1, 2006, retrieved 2008-06-10  21] K. Vikram, and M. Steiner, ?Mashup Component Isolation via Server-Side Analysis and Instrumentation?, in Proceedings of W2SP 2007 \(Web 2.0 Security and Privacy Workshop  22] IBM, ?IBM Mashup Starter Kit?, http://www.Alp haworks.ibm.com/tech/ibmmsk, retrieved 2008-08-25  23] E. Ort, S. Brydon, and M Basler, ?Mashup Styles, Part 2: Client-Side Mashups?, http://java.sun.com/developer technicalArticles/J2EE/mashup_2/, 2007, retrieved 2008-06-12  24] E. Ort, S. Brydon, and M Basler, ?Mashup Styles, Part 1: Server-Side Mashups?, http://java.sun.com/developer technicalArticles/J2EE/mashup_2/, 2007, retrieved 2008-06-12  25] A. Jhingran, ?Enterprise Information Mashups Integrating Information, Simply?, in Proceedings of the 32nd international conference on Very large data bases, 2006  26] V. Hoyer, K. Stanoevska-Slabeva, T. Janner and C. Schroth, ?Enterprise Mashups: Design Principles towards the Long Tail of User Needs?, in Proceedings of 2008 IEEE Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 International Conference on Services Computing, Hawaii 2008  27] C. Britton, ?IT architectures and middleware: strategies for building large, integrated systems?, Addison-Wesley Professional, Boston, 2000  28] L. Richardson, and S. Ruby, ?RESTful Web Services O'Reilly Media, Beijing, 2007  29] J. Snell, ?Resource-oriented vs. activity-oriented Web services?, in Lecture Notes in Computer Science, No. 4749 2007, pp. 13-26  30] R. Ennals, and D. Gay, ?User-Friendly Functional Programming for Web Mashups?, in Proceedings of the ICFP 07 conference, 2007, pp. 223-234  31] M. Alavi, and D. E. Leidner, ?Review: Knowledge Management and Knowledge Management Systems Conceptual Foundations and Research Issues?, in Management Information Systems Quartly, Vol. 25, Part 1 2001, pp. 109-136  32] U. Frank, ?Knowledge Management Systems: Essential 


32] U. Frank, ?Knowledge Management Systems: Essential Requirements and Generic Design Patterns?, In Proceedings of the international Symposium on Information Systems and Engineering, ISE'2001, Las Vegas 2001, pp. 114-121  33] A. Chua, ?Knowledge management system architecture a bridge between KM consultants and technologists?, in International journal of information management, Vol. 24 No. 1, 2004, pp. 87-98  34] M. Lindvall, I. Rus, and S. Sinha, ?Software systems support for knowledge management?, in Journal of knowledge management, Vol. 7, No. 5, 2003, pp. 137-150  35] K. Alwert, and I. Hoffmann, ?Knowledge Management Tools?, In: K. Mertins, P. Heisig, and J. Vorbeck \(eds Knowledge Management - Concepts and Best Practices 2. edition, Berlin, 2003, pp. 114-150  36] R. Maier, ?Knowledge Management Systems Information and Communication Technologies for Knowledge Management?, Springer, Berlin, 2004  37] P. L. Ackerman, ?Individual differences in skill learning: an integration of psychometric and information processing perspectives?, in Psychological bulletin, Vol. 102 No. 1, 1987, pp. 3-27  38] K. Viljanen, J. Tuominen, and E. Hyvonen, ? Publishing and Using Ontologies as Mash-Up Services?, in Proceedings of the 5th European Semantic Web Conference 2008 \(ESWC 2008  39] R. van der Spek, and A. Spijkervet, ?Knowledge Management: Dealing intelligently With Knowledge?, in Jay Liebowitz, Lyle Chester \(Ed Its Integrative Elements: and its integrative elements, CRCPress, New York, 1997  40] Galup, S. D. Dattero, R. Hicks, R. C., ?Knowledge Management Systems: An Architecture for Active and Passive Knowledge?, in Information Resources Management Journal, Vol. 15; Part 1, 2002, pp. 22-27  41] L. Damianos, J. Griffith, and D. Cuomo, ?Onomi: Social Bookmarking on a Corporate Intranet?, In Proceedings of the WWW 2006 Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop, 2006  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


 15 increased, and this needs to be considered for the maximum number of nodes in the network. Generally, latency will be largest for the T scheme, so when the range gets larger and larger as it may in some aeronautical networks, this could constitute a problem. In terms of latency, in general, the F scheme is best and then the TF schemes The TF schemes require fewer frequency channels than the F scheme, and most TF schemes employ single carrier transmission. Thus although the F scheme has its own advantages, TF schemes may be good alternatives to the F scheme, especially for the long range aeronautical networks considering characteristics such as flexibility, resource efficiency, etc. Moreover, if n needs to be changed, TF schemes are more convenient because they can change the number of time slots, or if possible, can change the number of frequency channels, or even change both In practice, for both commercial and military applications additional issues arise, such as power constraints, spatial isolation with directional antennas, adjacent channel interference. Among other things, such as the use of spread spectrum, these are areas for future work 9  C ONCLUSIONS  In this paper, we analyzed time, frequency, and multiple time-frequency schemes applie d to the non-redundant uni and bi- directional wireless relay networks, and conducted a straightforward comparison of several duplexing multiplexing/MA schemes in terms of resource allocation constraints, required data rate per transmission to obtain a desired average throughput, required transmit power per link, and relative range. Although commonly employed pure time division techniques appear adequate in some cases, such as short range networks, our results indicate that appropriately designed time-frequency schemes are preferable in terms of data ra te and/or SNR, especially for long range aeronautical networ ks. In addition, we can obtain the conclusion that pure frequency division schemes attain the largest range for a given data rate and performance. We also discussed the capacity and cost of the network, with results that use of frequency division or certain time-frequency divisi on schemes are superior For future work, we can ex tend the analysis of relay network from point-to-point links to point-to-multipoint link, such as in redundant relay network or ad-hoc network   We al so m a y consi d er usi ng spread spect rum t o  separate the user transmissions R EFERENCES   J. G. Proakis Digital Communications 5 th ed., McGraw-Hill New York, NY, 2008   L. W Couch Digital and Analog Communication Systems 7 th  ed., Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2007    A. Mehrotra GSM System Engineering Artech House, Boston MA, 1997    D. W. Matolak, \223Duplexing, Mu ltiplexing, and Multiple Access A Comparative Analysis For Mesh Networks,\224 Proc  MILCOM 2008   J. D. Cam p E. W  Knightly  223 T he IEEE 802.11s Extended Service Set Mesh Networking Standard,\224 IEEE Comm. Mag  vol. 46, no. 8, pp. 120-125, August 2008   F. Li, Y. Wang, \223Routing in Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks: A Survey,\224 IEEE Vehicular Tech. Mag vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 12-22 June 2007   P. Gupta P R Kumar, \223The Capacity of Wireless Networks,\224 IEEE Trans. Information Theory vol. 46, pp. 388-404, March 2000   F. Xue, P. R. Kumar, \223The Number of Neighbors Needed for Connectivity of Wireless Networks,\224 Wireless Networks \(ACM Journal vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 169-181, March 2004    C Comaniciu, H. V. Poor 223On Energy-Efficient Cross-Layer Design: Joint Power Control and Routing for Ad Hoc Networks,\224 EURASIP Journ. Wireless Comm. & Networking  Article ID 60706, Volume 2007   M. Van der Schaar, S Shankar, \223Cross-Layer Wireless Multimedia Transmission: Challenges, Principles, and New Paradigms,\224 IEEE Wireless Comm. Mag vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 5058, Aug. 2005   K. Stamatiou, J G. Proakis, \223Assessing the Impact of Physical Layer Techniques on Ad Hoc Network Performance,\224 Physical Communication Journal \(Elsevier vol. 1, pp. 84-91, 2008   G. Ferrari, S. A. Malvassori O. K. Tonguz, \223On Physical LayerOriented Routing with Power Control in Ad Hoc Wireless Networks,\224 Proc. IET Communications vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 306319, 2008   A. Oty a kmaz, R. Schoenen, S Dreier, B. H. Walke, \223Parallel Operation of Half- and Full-Duplex FDD in Future Multi-Hop Mobile Radio Networks,\224 Proc. 14 th European Wireless Conf  Prague, Czech Republic, 22-25 June 2008   P  W  C. Chan, et. al., \223 T he Evolution Path of 4G Networks FDD or TDD?\224 IEEE Comm. Mag vol. 44, no. 12, pp. 42-50 December 2006    L. Schiavone, \223Airborne Networking\227Approaches and Challenges,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22204 Monterey, CA, Oct. 31 Nov. 3, 2004  


 16   D J. Van Hook, M. O. Y eager, J. D. Laird, \223Automated Topology Control for Wideband Di rectional Links in Airborne Military Networks,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22205 Atlantic City, NJ, 1720 October 2005   Grie ssle r  J B Ca in  R. Hanks, \223Modeling Architecture for DTDMA Channel Access Protocol for Mobile Network Nodes using Directional Antennas,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22207 Orlando, FL 29-31 October 2007   K. Karras, T. Ky ritsis, M. A Amirfeiz, S. Baiotti, \223Aeronautical Mobile Ad Hoc Networks,\224 Proc. 14 th European Wireless Conference Prague, Czech Republic, 22-25 June 2008    C. Rokitansky M Ehammer, T Graupl, M. Schnell, S. Brandes S. Gligorevic, C. Rihacek, M. Sajatovic, \223B-AMC\227A System for Future Broadband Aeronautical Multicarrier Communications in the L Band,\224 Proc. IEEE Digital Avionics Systems Conf Dallas, TX, 21-25 October 2007   S  Adams B Cain K Olds P. Griessler, \223A Comparison of FDD and TDD/TDMA Architectures for Airborne Backbone Network Traffic,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22208 San Diego, CA, 17-19 November 2008   L. K a nt, et. al 223 N ED A T\227A Toolset to Design and Analyze Future Force Networks,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22208 San Diego, CA 17-19 November 2008    L Kant et al., \223Network Science Based Approaches to Design and Analyze MANETs for Military Applications,\224 Proc MILCOM \22208 San Diego, CA, 17-19 November 2008   Information Theory for Mob ile Ad Hoc Networks \(ITMANET DARPA IPTO program http://www.darpa.mil/ipto/pr ograms/itmanet/itmanet.asp  December 2008   J. Andrews, et. al., \223Rethinki ng Information Theory for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks,\224 IEEE Comm. Mag vol. 46, no. 12, pp. 94101, December 2008   J. Sy dir, R. Taori, \223An Evolved Cellular System Architecture Incorporating Relay Stations,\224 IEEE Comm. Mag pp. 115-121 June 2009   J R Povey  H Holma A Toskala 223Hy b rid FDD/TDDCDMA for third generation cellular systems,\224 IEE Colloquium on CDMA Techniques and Apps. for 3G Mobile Sys pp. 2/12/6, May 1997  S. W. Peters, R. W Heat h, \223The Future of WiMAX: Multihop Relaying with IEEE 802.16j.\224 IEEE Communications Magazine pp. 104-111, Jan. 2009   J. Yang, J. Boy d D. Lane y, J. Schlenzig, \223Next Generation Half-Duplex Common Data Link,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22207  Orlando, FL, 29-31 October 2007  B IOGRAPHY  Qian Zhang received the B.S degree from Shandong University China in 2006, and the M.S. degree from Ohio University, U.S. in 2008 both in electrical engineering. Her M.S. thesis topic was wireless nearground channel characterization in several unlicensed bands. During her master\222s degree, she intern ed at Alcatel-Lucent Inc. in summer 2007. Since September 2008, she has been a Ph.D candidate in electrical engineering at Ohio University.  She interned at the National Institute of Standards and Technology \(NIST\ in summer 2009 and was awarded a NIST grant for the 2009-2010 academic year. Her research interests are radio channel modeling, relay and ad hoc networks David W. Matolak  S-\22282, M-\22283, SM-\22200\ received the B.S. degree from The Pennsylvania State University University Park, in 1983, the M.S. degree from The University of Massachusetts, Amherst, in 1987, and the Ph.D. degree from The University of Virginia Charlottesville, in 1995, all in electrical engineering. He was with the Rural Electrification Administration Washington, D.C., from 1983 to 1985, and worked on specialized rural telecommunication systems. From 1985 to 1986, he was with the UMass LAMMDA Laboratory, where he worked on the full-wave analysis, design, fabrication and testing of planar microwave transmission lines and antennas. From 1986 to 1989 he was with AT&T Bell Laboratories Microwave R adio Systems Development Department, where he worked on the analytical and empirical characterization of nonlinearities and their effect on QAM transmission. In 1990, he joined the University of Virginia's Communication Systems Laboratory, where worked on analysis of trellis coding and equalization for TDMA mobile radio systems. From 1994 to 1996, he was with Lockheed Martin Tactical Communication Systems where he was Lead System Engineer on development of a wireless local loop synchronous code division multiple access communication system. From 1996 to 1998, he was with the MITRE Corp., where he worked on the analysis and modeling of various digital radio communication systems. He was with Lockheed Martin Global Telecommunications from 1998 to 1999 and worked on mobile satellite communication system analysis and design Since September 1999, he has been with the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Ohio University, Athens. His research interests are communication over fading channels, radio channel modeling, multicarrier \(MC\ transmission, and mobile ad hoc networks. Dr. Matolak is a member of Eta Kappa Nu and Sigma Xi. He has served on numerous IEEE Conference Technical Program committees and was also Chair of the Geo Mobile Radio Standards group in the Telecommunications Industries Association\222s \(TIA\222s 


 17 Satellite Communications Division  


engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial processes, neurotechnology and cardiotechnology, and unmanned systems. His research work has been sponsored by government and industry and has published over 250 technical papers in his area of expertise. He is the lead author of a book on "Intelligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis of Engineering Systems" published by Wiley in 2006. He is the recipient of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Activities award and the ECE Distinguished Professor award Romeo de la Cruz del Rosario, Jr. is the Chief of the Electronics Technology Branch at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. He also serves as the Army Technology Objective ATO P&amp;D Operational Readiness and Condition Based Maintenance He received the B.E.E. degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and the M.S.E. and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Since 1991 he has been an engineer at the Harry Diamond Laboratory then U.S Army Research Laboratory working in several areas including high power microwave technology characterization &amp; modeling of heterostructure RF devices and fabrication and failure analysis of electron devices and circuits  pre></body></html 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





