 INTERORGANIZATIONAL GOVERNANCE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY  Anne-Marie Croteau John Molson School of Business Concordia University anne-marie.croteau@concordia.ca  François Bergeron Télé-universit Université du Québec à Montréal bergeron.francois@teluq.uqam.ca   Abstract This study aims at better understanding how information technology \(IT\ governance supports organizations in their business exchanges with other organizations. Its main objective is to define the 
various modes of IT governance contributing to successful interorganizational relationships Borrowing from the network governance area, three major constructs structure, processes, and participants are considered to study these modes The maturity state of the interorganizational relationships is also taken into account to better explain the level of success of each observed relation Through pilot cases, we want to provide both practitioners and academics with an enriched understanding of the challenges related to the governance of IT during interorganizational 
relationships   1. Context  The globalization of markets brings organizations to remodel their business relationships. Rapid changes in business environment, international pressures, and a plea for increased effectiveness call for more interorganizational relationships Organizations are pressured to lower production costs, reduce time to market, and build closer relationships with clients. However, they face difficulty in finding qualified personnel and must 
deal with the constant arrival of more effective software, new technology, and competitors in the market. Market uncertainties are easier to control when organizations combine their competencies and their know-how to face competition in order to keep or gain the lead in their markets. The recent advances in IT have largely contributed to an increase of interorganizational relationships by offering an essential ingredient to these new organizational forms 1, 2 Ex a m ples of IT application s th a t s u pport interorganizational relationships are: EDI, extranets 
B2B \(business-to business\ electronic commerce, as well as other IT applications that facilitate the collaborative commerce among partners, including collaborative planning, forecasting, and replenishment \(CPFR\, advanced planning and scheduling \(APS\nd product lifecycle management PLM\stems T a s k an d f u n c tio n  interdependence needs a lot of coordination among companies conducting electronic exchanges However, few organizations, if any, share the same 
business strategy, business processes, IT infrastructure and architecture, and/or structure of their IT department. All these aspects create challenges for business partners and incite them to put in place governance mechanisms that would help them in successfully conducting exchanges among independent businesses, despite a lack of commonalities This phenomenon is also observed within large organizations with several business units where each 
of them has its own mission, strategy, structure processes and IT infrastructure and architecture. The challenge for such organizations is to create an interunit governance of IT that is developed in a similar way to the interorganizational governance of IT In this paper, we first present two short illustrations of interorganizational governance of IT to reveal the complexities of real life situations companies are facing when dealing with the governance of IT among independent business units 
We then present a theoretical background and a research model that could help understand and identify the main variables related to successful interorganizational governance of IT. Following a methodology section, we discuss the applicability of the research model to the two short cases, to conclude with the limitations and contributions  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


 1.1. AIRLINER  In 2005, a major Canadian airline carrier, hereto referred to as AIRLINER, underwent a restructuring of its various independent and for-profit business units in order to provide more autonomy and selfgovernment to each unit. AIRLINER was facing several internal organizational issues that required them to refocus energies and processes to match their business values. One of the primary goals was to increase effectiveness and value of the IT function and thus a governance and policy remodeling was in order. The governance of IT within each business unit was such that each independent business unit had a say and a voice in the direction and strategy of IT It mimicked the overall corporate governance formula and decision-making involved all levels of management and amongst executives in order to achieve consensus The ultimate goal at AIRLINER was to create a more decentralized IT governance model, providing each business unit the opportunity to achieve corporate goals using processes and people that suited them best. The expectation was that business units would collaborate without interference at the corporate level. Thus the foundation for networkbased interorganizational governance of IT was laid each business unit who had weakly-structured relationships with other units had to increase their cooperation with each other regarding their IT activities One individual was newly appointed as the CIO of one of the business units located in a different country. It was expected of him that he would provide direction to the other business units, as well as assist the organization in the overall directing of the reorganization, given his previous success in implementing IT governance. It was hoped that he and his team would be able to bring the best practices for the whole organization. It was the management s plan that new ideas brought about by this new CIO would result in a positive outcome in this restructuration Unfortunately, there was no formal announcement made to reinforce the leading role of the new comer there were no formal processes put in place to facilitate the collaboration amongst all units; and the distance between the business units added to the complexity since they were spread across North America and Europe. But most importantly, the new CIO was left without organizational support, and therefore acted independently without consulting other members in the network It resulted that each business unit decided to target their immediate IT goals and ignore the requirements of other units, as well as those outlined by the organizational strategy. It seems that the need to develop the guiding principles of the interorganizational \(or inter-unit\overnance of IT was overlooked and resulted in a failure  1.2. MANU vs. TAKEOVER  In 2007, a large Canadian industrial manufacturer hereto referred to as MANU, was acquired by a foreign organization in a friendly takeover deal that required a complete restructuring of the new entity and new governance policies to be formed. The acquiring firm, hereto referred to as TAKEOVER intended to create a hybrid entity that would maximize the benefits of both TAKEOVER and MANU s policies. From an IT perspective, the goal was to adopt the IT governance of the acquiring firm though still allow for the mature processes in MANU to facilitate policy- and decision-making; thus, a hybrid governance structure would be formed ultimately allowing for the spinoff of all assets into the new entity. These best practices IT policies would hopefully allow for smoother adoption of the new governance modes TAKEOVER intended to centralize the IT decision-making since it was the acquiring firm MANU had to adjust to the overall reality of TAKEOVER. Therefore, the new structure was supposed to use the majority of the aspects from TAKEOVER s structures and processes. That was accomplished by bringing over MANU s people and talent. However, MANU s governance structure was fundamentally distributed and decentralized and was considered to be more mature than TAKEOVER s The implementation of these best practices  policies ultimately decreased the overall process maturity. The best practices became average practices whereby processes from both MANU and TAKEOVER were considered. While MANU may have had stronger and more robust processes TAKEOVER would still implement their current policies in many cases and thus implement conflicting processes resulting in sub-optimal results Despite the situation, the acquisition was ultimately successful  2. Theoretical background  There is a lack of research that specifically looks at how these organizations define their interorganizational governance of IT. Thus, the proliferation of interorganizational collaborations and the importance for organizations to be successful in these relationships, coupled with the lack of research Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


 on IT governance in interorganizational contexts, are the main rationale supporting the need for proposing a framework useful to analyze such situations. The following sub-sections cover the main areas used to better understand this phenomenon. IT governance and interorganizational relationships are first explained. Interorganizational relationships and interorganizational governance are then respectively defined and depicted, followed by an introduction to the various states of maturity found in interorganizational relationships. Finally successful interorganizational relationships are explained  2.1. IT governance  IT governance has gone through several iterating definitions in academic literature; no term has been more skewed, stretched and distort n t i l t h e  mid 1990 s, most information systems were targeted toward in-house use. IT governance has often been applied from an internal perspective [7h ile  structural, process, and relational capabilities are an integral part of effective IT governan I T  governance specifies the decision rights and accountability framework to encourage desirable behavior in the use of IT T h e s a m e au t h ors proposed six archetypes of governance for making these decisions related to IT principles, architecture infrastructure, applications, and investment. These archetypes are business monarchy, IT monarchy feudal, federal, IT duopoly, and anarchy, whereby the role and level of the participants within the hierarchy define each archetype. This is close to Sambamurthy and Zmud s view of IT governance [7   w h o d e fi ne d  IT governance as the patterns of authority regarding IT infrastructure, IT use, and IT project management For the IT Governance Institut g o v e rn an ce  represents the set of responsibilities and practices exercised by senior management of the enterprise designed to establish and communicate strategic direction, insure realization of goals and objective mitigate risk, and verify that assigned resources are used in an effective and efficient manner However these archetypes and views of IT governance have been determined within firms and not in an interorganizational context. The outcomes of IT governance are the achievement of strategic goals the production of relevant and pertinent information for business, the availability, timeliness, accuracy completeness and efficiency of business-critical inform T g o v e rn an ce h a s been demonstrated to correlate significantly to firm performan  mu lti bus in e s s fir m s  IT governance helps create synergies obtainable through shared yet not identical IT infrastructures, IT strategy making processes, IT vendor management processes and IT human resource management processes. The lack of commonalities and the uniqueness of each component make the governance of IT in this context extremely challenging  2.2. Interorganizational relationships  Interorganizational relationships are comprised of transactions, flows, and linkages that occur over a relatively long period of time between at least two organizations [17i x v a ri ou s  f o r m s of interorganizational relationships exist: joint venture network, consortia, alliance, trade association, and interlock directorate [20, 21 T h es e f o r m s  v a r y  depending upon the degree to which the organizations are tightly linked. Interorganizational relationships also require the coordination of task and function interdependence c h in terdepen d e n ce suggests that each participant could be independent of the others, or that each one could be dependent on the preceding one, depending on how the interorganizational relationships are set  2.3. Interorganizational governance  Three basic perspectives of interorganizational governance are well known: market, hierarchy, and network. Market governance is episodic, rather than enduring, formed only for the purpose of transferring goods and resources, and terminates at the end of the transfer. It is mainly studied trough transaction cost economics. Hierarchy governance lasts longer than market governance and is supported by legitimate authority to resolve disputes that occur between participants. Network governance is a hybrid form of the previous forms of interorganizational governance and is based on the relational exchange theory This form of governance looks over repeated and enduring interfirm exchanges, but still lacks the legitimate authority to resolve disputes [23Different terms and definitions exist for network governance, as indicated by Jones, Hesterly, and Borgatti, 1997  T h e y prov ide an in clusiv e  definition of network governance which involves a select, persistent, and structured set of autonomous firms  g a g e d in creati n g produ cts or s e rv ices based on implicit and open-ended contracts to adapt to environment contingences and to coordinate and safeguard exchanges. These contracts are socially  not legally binding p. 914\tuality and interdependence favor effective interactions and create a tool for future cooperation  Because industries are increasingly using the network governance perspectiv is re s e arch Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


 could be based on this particular one. The mechanisms that sustain the network governance not only include structure and processes normally associated with the market or hierarchy perspectives 23, 25 t als o in cl u d e t h e participan t s 1, 28  Structures, processes, and participants serve to influence and shape the various forms of governance in interorganizational relationships  2.4 State of maturity of interorganizational relationships  The notion of maturity has been applied within the IT field by Ross \(2003 w h o rev eal s t h at th e  evolution of IT governance arrangements goes through four main phases, namely the silo application architecture, standardized technology architecture rationalized data architecture, and modular architecture. The maturity of interorganizational relationships happens in a dynamic and interactive manner over various states [2, 22, 30n  exhaustive review integrating previous findings [27 33dicates th at s i x s t ates ex i s t in t h e  development of interorganizational relationships These states, tested with cross-cultural case studies data are: searching, starting, development maintenance, termination, and dorma   2.5 Successful interorganizational relationships  Organizations create successful relationships with others when they gain access to new resource, reach some economies of scale, share risks and costs, or gain access to a foreign market. They also succeed when they develop a new product or service through collaboration, learn from the others, gain some speed or flexibility to market, or neutralize or block the competition a t el y  th is cou l d be ref l ected in improved sales, growth, market share of specific products or services, or profitability among participating organizations   3. Research model  We define the interorganizational governance of IT as the authority and accountability frameworks put in place to encourage the efficient and effective use of IT when sustaining electronic exchanges among business partners. Figure 1 illustrates how a gestalt of the interorganizational governance of IT is dependent upon the mix of structure, process, participant, and state   Figure 1  Gestalts of interorganizational governance of information technology  The research model presented in Figure 2 illustrates the general research question: How does the interorganizational governance of IT contribute to the success of electronic exchanges conducted between business partners? More explicitly, we want to investigate the following specific research questions: 1\at are the various gestalts of IT governance found in interorganizational relationships when taking into account structure, processes participants, and states? and 2\w do these gestalts contribute to successful interorganizational relationships   Figure 2  Proposed Research Model  To answer these questions, six constructs could be used. The first three constructs are based on the network governance theory proposed by Winkler 2006 T h ey are th e s t r u ctu re, t h e proces s e s  a n d  the network participants Structure is a key force in shaping and implementing the agendas between organizations determining who has the power to act, and what resources are exploited [1, 38 r es pon ds to th e ways in which interorganizational work is divided  Participant P r o c e s s Structure State State S t a t e  Structure Process State Success of interorganizational relationships Participant Gestalts Interorganizational governance of IT Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


 among the partnering organizations by assigning specific roles to these organizations and the ways in which coordination is achieved among these roles 39 Processes correspond to formal and informal tools put in place to realize interorganizational relationships by empowering communication between participants and to influence the interfirm agen Participants in interorganizational relationships are individuals, groups and organizations having the power and know-how to influence and endorse the interorganizational relationships agen  The fourth construct is the maturity state of the interorganizational relationships, which corresponds to a situation or set of conditions at a point in time, in which an interorganizational relationship exis The fifth construct is the gestalts of interorganizational governance of IT. A gestalt is a cluster built from the four previous constructs that collectively defines a meaningful and coherent slice of organizational reality  T h e pers pectiv e adopted in this research is based on an internal congruence conceptualization, whereby a gestalt is a set of relationships. The gestalt emerges from a refined, integrated and more complex situation than an archetype. Adopting this perspective implies that instead of looking at a few variables or at linear associations among such variables we should be trying to find frequently recurring clusters of attributes or gestalts 40, p. 5   The last construct is the success of interorganizational relationships Success is defined by the summation of advantages and disadvantages for interorganizational relationships participants Barringer and Harrison \(2000 ide an  exhaustive list of both advantages and disadvantages for organizations to enter into interorganizational relationships  4. Methodology  Because this research is exploratory and in its early stage, a pilot case approach was used to validate the proposed research constructs and model following Yin s recommendations [41  T w o p ilo t cases were used to improve both substantive and methodological issues. As indicated by Yin, studies can include several pilot cases. The main criteria for selecting the cases were convenience and access The researchers met with the former CIO of AIRLINER and the former Director of IT governance at MANU to validate their views on this research Each semi-structured interview lasted one hour. The model was first explained where each construct was defined for validation purposes and then see if each component made sense by itself and also when combined together to create the proposed model. By referring to past experiences in implementing an interorganizational governance of IT, it was possible to validate that indeed each construct and the model help in explaining why the implementation of interorganizational governance of IT may succeed or not  5. Discussion  Going back to both illustrations of attempts in implementing an interorganizational governance of IT, each proposed component has played a role at one point in time. In the case of AIRLINER, the arrival of the new CIO who found it more efficient to avoid the network instead of being part of it indicates that the participant construct is an important factor to consider when studying this phenomenon. Another aspect is that the structure of the relationships was not mature enough and led to no improvement in the process maturity, as processes evolved independently within each unit. Because of this lack of mature processes, each business unit decided to attack their immediate goals and ignore the requirements of other units, as well as those outlined by the organizational strategy. There was an attempt to increase the maturity of the structure using experienced individuals, but mature processes were missing The arrival of a new CIO with unclear roles and responsibilities, a lack of top management commitment and follow-up, coupled with a weak CIO accountability led to a weak interorganizational governance of IT. This unmanaged environment does not allow the researchers to identify a gestalt and to link it to success; at most does it allow them to say that a weak governance environment is linked to a very low success of IT interorganizational governance In the case of MANU, the maturity of both IT governances was different, where MANU had a more mature one than TAKEOVER. However the structure and process of TAKEOVER were chosen over MANU since TAKEOVER was the acquirer and requested MANU to adjust to its structure and processes despite the fact that MANU had the best ones. The role of the participants in designing the governance policies was crucial again. The acquisition was ultimately successful, though there was an overall drop in the process maturity and the structure maturity; the former being unintentional, the latter by design Because the acquisition by TAKEOVER happened less than six months ago when the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


 interview was conducted, there was not enough information to identify a gestalt. However, the approach taken so far seems to facilitate the implementation of the governance of IT amongst business units  6. Limitations and Contributions  These two pilot cases represent only one first step in a multiple-case study research. It carries however some limitations. First, the units of analysis chosen might not represent pure interorganizational situations. For instance, in the first case, the business relationship between AIRLINER and the other business unit might not represent fully independent organizations. The same observation can be made regarding TAKEOVER where IT governance was studied in a context of the integration of a large manufacturer to a much larger international one The next step could be to select independent businesses using specific business-to-business technology such as an extended value chain supported by an ERP linking an independent supplier to an independent buyer Second, as suggested by De Haes and Van Grembergen \(2006 it w o u l d be appro priate to  interview more than one business representative by organization and to draw information from each IT governance level \(strategic, managerial and operational\This would allow a richer understanding of the business and the interorganizational governance of IT Third, the researchers experienced some difficulties in drawing gestalts due to the high structural and managerial complexities of very large businesses. To alleviate this problem, we need to be more specific in the selection of the business units and the type of interorganizational IT links. A larger sample size is also needed The next phase of this study is to conduct multiple case-studies in order to test the model. We expect to find out patterns reflecting the gestalts of governance and their contribution to successful interorganizational relationships The proposed research framework should help both practitioners and academics to better understand the phenomena of interorganizational governance of IT and how to address each of its specific components This on-going research offers various potential contributions. First, the IT governance of interorganizational relationships has not been very well studied so far. Moreover, the maturity state adds a dynamic approach to the usual and more static investigation on IT governance. This research is among the first to link these emerging modes of interorganizational IT gove rnance to the success of interorganizational relationships. Comparing the emerging modes will allow determining the ones that are likely to best support the multi-partners exchanges, and those that are less successful to do so taking into account the various states in the development of process The two illustrations provided at the beginning and the discussion that followed indicate that a deeper understanding of interorganizational governance of IT is needed. We expect that discovering new modes of interorganizational IT governance will provide guidelines for an efficient and effective use of IT for successful interorganizational relationships  7. References 1 i n k ler I Network Governance between Individual and Collective Goals: Qualitative Evidence from Six Networks  Journal of Leadership and Organizational Studies 12:3\ 2006, pp. 119-133 2 Ba tonda G a nd P e rry C   Approaches to Relationship Development Processes in Inter-Firm Networks  European Journal of Marketing 37:10 2003, pp. 1457-1517 3 Chi, L a nd H o ls a pple  C. W  Understanding Computer-Mediated Interorganizational Collaboration A Model and Framework  Journal of Knowledge Management 9:1\2005, pp. 53-75 4 T u rba n, E., K i ng D V i e h la n d D a nd L e e  J    Electronic Commerce 2008: A Managerial Perspective Prentice Hall, 2008, 1008 p 5 T hom ps on J   Organizations in Action McGraw Hill New York, NY, 1967, 192 p  Rau  K G   Effective Governance of IT: Design Objectives, Roles, and Relationships  Information Systems Management 21:4\, 2004, pp. 35-42 7 Sa m b am urth y  V., a nd Zm ud, R   Arrangements for Information Technology Governance: A Theory of Multiple Contingencies  MIS Quarterly 23:2\ 1999 pp. 261-290 8 B r ow n, C V  Examining the Emergence of Hybrid IS Governance Solutions: Evidence from a Single Case Site  Information Systems Research 8:1 1997, pp. 69-94 9 Brow n, C. V  a nd Ma g ill, S. L   Alignment of the IS Functions with the Enterprise: Toward a Model of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


 Antecedents  MIS Quarterly 18:4\1994, pp. 371403 10  Boy n ton, A  C., J a c obs G  C., a nd Zm ud, R. W   Whose Responsibility Is IT Management  Sloan Management Review 33:4\, 1992, pp. 32-38 11 P e terso n  R Crafting Information Technology Governance Information Systems Management  21:4\ll 2004, pp. 1-16 12 W e ill, P  a n d Ross J. W   A Matrixed Approach to Designing IT Governance  Sloan Management Review 46:2\, 2005, pp. 26-34 13  G ove rna nc e Institute 20 03 Board Briefing on IT Governance 2nd Edition, 66 p 14 C obiT   IT Governance Global Status Report USA 2006, 48 p 15  L e v i n a N., an d R o ss J. W   From the Vendor s Perspective: Exploring the Value Proposition in Information Technology Outsourcing  MIS Quarterly 27:3\, 2003, pp. 331-364 1 a n r i v erd i   H  Performance Effects of Information Technology Synergies in Multibusiness Firms  MIS Quarterly 30:1\, 2006, pp. 57-77 1 Hargu e m  S   Bergero n  F   and F r ay et  J M   La gouvernance des TI dans un contexte interorganisationnel: Développement d un cadre d analyse  Administrative Sciences Association of Canada Conference IS division, Banff, Alberta, 2006 pp. 238-251 1 Hargu e m  S   Bergero n  F   and F r ay et  J M   La gouvernance des TI à l re du e-business  Compterendus de la Conférence eCommerce et Gouvernance de l Internet, ECIG 2007 Sousse, Tunisie, 19-20 octobre 2007, pp. 1-19 1 C Determinants of Interorganizational Relationships: Integration and Future Directions The Academy of Management Review 15:2\, 1990, pp 241-265 20  B a r r i ng e r B  R  a nd H a r r i son, J   Walking a Tightrope: Creating Value through Interorganizational Relationships  Journal of Management 26:3\, 2000 pp. 367-403 21  Poul in D   Mo ntre ui l, B a n d G a uv in S L'entreprise réseau. Bâtir aujourd'hui l'organisation de demain  Publi-Relais, Montréal, 1994, 335 p 22  B a r t hon  P. a n d J e ps e n  B   How Time Affects Transaction Costs and Relational Governance in the Distribution Channel: A Review and Research Propositions  Management Research 20:6\, 1997 pp. 14-29 23  Mi randa S M an d Kav a n, C. B Moments of Governance in IS Outsourcing: Conceptualizing Effects of Contracts on Value Capture and Creation  Journal of Information Technology 20:3\2005, pp 152-169 2 P o do l n y  J M  and  P a ge K L  Network Forms of Organization  Annual Review of Sociology 24 1998, pp. 57-76 25  Za he e r A  a nd Ve nk a t ra m a n, N   Relational Governance as an Interorganizational Strategy: An Empirical Test of the Role of Trust in Economic Exchange  Strategic Management Journal 16:6 1995, pp. 373-392 26 Jone s, C., He ste r l y  W  S., a nd Borg a tti, S. P   A General Theory of Network Governance: Exchange Conditions and Social Mechanisms  The Academy of Management Review 22:4\, 1997, pp. 911-945 2 d e  J  Inter-organisational Governance in Marketing Channels  Journal of Marketing 58:1 1994, pp. 71-85 28  H e lfe t G a nd Vith, K   Relationships Marketing Teams: Improving the Utilization of Customer Relationship Potentials through a High Team Design Quality  Industrial Marketing Management 28:5 1999, pp. 553-564 2 ss  J W   Creating a Strategic IT Architecture Competency: Learning in Stages MIS Quarterly Executive 2:1\2003, pp. 31-43 30  L o w nde s  V., a nd Sk e l c h e r C   The Dynamics of Multi-Organizational Partnerships: An Analysis of Changing Modes of Governance  Public Administration 76:2\ 1998, 313-333 31  R i ng P. S., a nd Va n de Ve n   A  H   Structuring Cooperative Relationships Between Organizations  Strategic Management Journal 13:7\992, pp. 483498 32 Crote a u A M P.-M. L  g e r, a nd L  Ca s s iv i The Role of Life Cycle Concepts in the Assessment of Interorganizational Alignment Industrial Management & Data Systems 108, 2\, 2008, pp. 145161 33  W ils on, D  T   An Integrated Model of Buyer-Seller Relationships  Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science 23:4\1995, pp. 335-345 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


 3 t er  R  M   Collaborative Advantage: The Art of Alliance  Harvard Business Review July-August 1994, pp. 96-108 35 L a rso n   A   Network Dyads in Entrepreneurial Settings: A Study of the Governance of Exchange Relationships  Administrative Science Quarterly  37:1\, 1992, pp. 76-104 36 D w y e r F. R., Sc hurr, P. H a n d O h S Developing Buyer-Seller Relationships  Journal of Marketing 51:2\, 1987, pp. 11-27 37 Ford  D The Development of Buyer-Seller Relationships in the Industrial Markets  Journal of Marketing 5:6\ 1980, pp. 339-354 3 Hu xh am  C  an d  V a n g en  S   Leadership in the Shaping and Implementation of Collaboration Agendas: How Things Happen in a \(Not Quite Joined-Up World  Academy of Management Journal  43:6\, 2000, pp. 1159-1175 39 Kum a r, K., a nd V a n Disse l H. G  Sustainable Collaboration: Managing conflict and cooperation in interorganizational Systems  MIS Quarterly 20:3 1996, pp. 279-300 40 r D Toward A New Contingency Approach the Search for Organizational Gestalts  Journal of Management Studies 18:1\1981, pp. 1-26 4   R.K  Case Study Research, Design and Methods 2 nd ed.\ge Publications, Beverly Hills, CA, 1994 171 p 42  D e H a e s S., a nd Va n G r em be rge n W  Information Technology Governance Best Practices in Belgian Organisations  Proceedings of the 39 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2006 pp. 1-8  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


Medium and Low. To determine these levels, the probability for each threat likelihood level is expressed as follows: 1.0 for High, 0.5 for Medium, 0.1 for Low. Regarding the threat impact the following values are assigned: 100 for High, 50 for Medium, and 10 for Low. Now it is possible to multiply the threat probability with the impact values. The risk scale to interpret the results is given below  High \( &gt;50 to 100  Medium \( &gt;10 to 50  Low \(1 to 10 By now we know the individual risk for every threatened asset in case a threat occurs. These asset bound risk levels are required in the subsequent control recommendation step as countermeasures could be required individually for each asset. To gain a single risk level for a threat, the highest risk level over all assets is assigned. In the traditional process it is important to de?ne the meaning of a speci?c risk level and the actions senior management must take. While this is a valuable approach, it is not clear which assets caused the risk level and where to apply countermeasures. AURUM on the contrary offers a more detailed and ?ne grained approach as introduced in the following section  Traceability: The GSTool does not incorporate probabilities for threat occurrences and thus no risk level can be calculated. Instead, the IT Grundschutz Manual approach de?nes lists of relevant threats and required countermeasures according to a typical of?ce environment. By answering control questions a variance analysis between the recommended countermeasures in the IT Grundschutz catalogues and those already implemented can be conducted CRISAM offers neither threat catalogues nor related probabilities. The risk management view in CRISAM displays the variance of the achieved ?nance ratings which are derived by answering the control questions for each resource with the policy de?ned target rating In AURUM the risk is calculated by multiplying the determined impact level with the derived probability for each resource. In contrast to the other tools we present a ?nal risk level to the user which takes the impact and probability into account  Standard Compliant Controls: Regarding control recommendations, the GSTool offers a comprehensive set of threats and corresponding controls, taken from the IT Grundschutz Manual, to mitigate those. For each resource a set of recommended controls is provided. To support the implementation process a responsible person for implementation, a schedule, priority and costs can be stored. For each control question in the CRISAM tool the user can create one or more measures to implement the control. These measures include information on the responsible person for implementation, a schedule, priority and costs. No explicit information on the origin of the control questions is given. Contrasting the other candidates, our solution recommends controls to mitigate vulnerabilities. All controls are derived and explicitly Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 linked to established best-practice guidelines and information security standards. This makes it, e.g., possible to speci?c information security standard as target IX. CONTROL RECOMMENDATIONS Up to this point the overall risk of a threat, or a risk level for each threatened asset, can be calculated. Initially, we sort threats by their risk level, which provides the organization  s decision makers with a thorough overview of current risks In addition, for each threat the organization  s assets at risk and their properties can be queried, which gives the rationals for the calculated risk levels. As mentioned in Section IV also vulnerabilities which render threats possible can be inspected. At this point management knows which risks are not 


spected. At this point management knows which risks are not acceptable for the organization and therefore, measures have to be taken. In this step of the process, controls which could mitigate or eliminate the identi?ed risks, as appropriate to the organization  s operations, should be provided [6]. To support this recommendation step, we consolidate the security model For each vulnerability, appropriate controls are modeled, taken from best practice standards such as the IT Grundschutz Manual. Offering these controls equips the decision makers with effective countermeasures to lower the risk level and thereby protect their business. In contrast to the traditional process, this solution provides a thorough knowledge base about countermeasures and thus 1 that effective solutions are simply forgotten, and 3 effective controls in compliance with best-practice standards While this is already a valuable approach, further improvement can be achieved by a model based test for existing countermeasures and excluding those from the recommendation set Implementation instructions are modeled for each control as axioms, which can be used to test if implementations already exist  Concrete Recommendations: The GSTool provides control recommendations in natural language taken from the IT Grundschutz Manual. These recommendations are mostly highly detailed, but require an expert to draw the appropriate conclusions for the own organization under inspection CRISAM does not incorporate control recommendations users have to de?ne them on their own in accordance to the given control questions. The control questions sometimes include hints for control implementations on a very high level Our solution provides control recommendations to close vulnerabilities for each resource. The controls are given in natural language to enhance understanding and furthermore, as formal implementation descriptions on a conceptual level. The knowledge base also contains concrete implementation instances, which can be automatically recommended. Another advantage is that those controls automatically as control recommendations X. CONTROL EVALUATION AND COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS After identifying all potential controls, they are evaluated and a Cost/Bene?t analysis is carried out. Cost/Bene?t analysis is an integral part of risk evaluation because investments into security must precisely target a company  s speci?c business needs in line with economic demands. Despite the importance of this step, NIST SP 800-30 gives only a shallow overview This step involves the de?nition of the resource- and bene?t categories. The careful speci?cation of these categories is of vital importance as these categories should re?ect the corporate strategy and security policy of the company. The criteria are company speci?c and individually customizable and they can range from monetary quantities \(e.g., minimizing the reduction of monetary loss, monetary costs values \(e.g., user acceptance, implementation hours, loss of reputation cost and bene?t in monetary terms but includes non-?nancial objectives. All potential controls identi?ed in the previous step are rated against the chosen criteria, where the security ontology already provides a selection of objectives \(such as con?dentiality, integrity, and availability controls and their ratings in each category as input, all Paretoef?cient combinations of safeguards are determined \(i.e., there is no other solution with equally good or better values in all K objectives and a strictly better value in at least one objective where the binary variables xi ? {0, 1} indicate whether or not a safeguard i is selected \(xi = 1 if so, and xi = 0 otherwise have to be feasible with respect to two sets of constraints. The rst set relates to limited resources \(e.g., development costs 


rst set relates to limited resources \(e.g., development costs or maintenance costs maximum  or at least a minimum  number of safeguards from given subsets \(e.g., from a certain type of safeguards such as ?rewalls  Effectiveness Rating: The GSTool offers controls taken from the IT Grundschutz Manual. Effectiveness of those controls is not directly given but sometimes information on the effectiveness can be found in natural language in the IT Grundschutz Manual descriptions. Control effectiveness has no in?uence in this approach, only if all controls are implemented the resource is regarded as protected In CRISAM the user manually de?nes controls and connects them to control questions. During the creation process he can also de?ne the expected bene?t in natural language as well as provide numbers for expected savings. Obviously, only an expert has the necessary knowledge to conduct this step but still there is a risk of forgetting necessary controls, wrong connections, unrealistic ?gures, input data errors, etc Focusing on effectiveness, our solution provides effectiveness ratings for all control implementations Those are assigned once by experts in the knowledge base and can be adjusted or extended by users. This approach allows for focusing on highly effective controls Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 rst and provides data for the subsequent cost/bene?t analysis  Granularity: The GSTool does not support cost/bene?t analysis. This step has to be conducted externally. In CRISAM it is possible to manually de?ne ?gures for expected bene?ts and costs for controls. We consider cost/bene?t analysis as an integral part of risk management. As security does not directly generate business value and does not directly improve the net pro?t, investing in security can only prevent negative events or reduce related adverse effects. Traditional cost/bene?t analysis methods do not consider this relation and are ill-suited for the evaluation of security investments, because they fail to properly take into consideration the many important non?nancial criteria. AURUM does not aggregate multiple objectives to a single indicator, but leaves them separated and, furthermore, focuses on the selection of whole portfolios of controls. Thus, it can be guaranteed that all portfolio solutions are not only feasible but also are potentially  good  ones from an objective point of view The ability to consider multiple objectives is of high importance, as an investments adequacy and ef?ciency for a company is determined by different parameters Therefore, the evaluation of a number of objectives must be possible and should be accomplished without a priori weighting of objectives and without breaking them down to a common scale XI. CONTROL SELECTION Decision makers are often overwhelmed with the high number of solution alternatives and are often not aware if their investments into security are appropriate or effective at all. Therefore, AURUM provides an intuitive interface that offers the decision maker information on the speci?c selection problem while the system ensures that the ?nal solution will be an ef?cient one. The decision makers learn about the consequences of their decisions and get information on the gap \(in each category solutions. The decision maker requires support in making a nal determination of the solution that best ?ts his/her notions out of the possibly hundreds \(or even thousands ef?cient alternative portfolios identi?ed in the ?rst phase We are using a search based procedure, which start from an ef?cient portfolio and allows the decision maker to iteratively 


 move  in solution space towards more attractive alternatives until no  better  portfolio can be found. AURUM is based on interactive modi?cations of lower and upper bounds for one or more objectives. To this end, the decision support system \(DSS  ying  bars \(cf. Fig 3 such as costs or availability such as  euro  in the case of costs or  points  in the case of availability For each objective \(cf. Fig. 4 tion on what can be achieved by \(i the dark marks on the left side representing the solution space with all ef?cient portfolios may visually grow together to vertical bars ii the decision maker has made decisions in his/her interactive exploration of the solution space \(this subset from the solution space is represented by the right bar Fig. 3. Status of the DSS at the beginning Fig. 4. Subwindow details Two movable horizontal lines with small arrows at one side represent lower and upper bounds and are intended to restrict the set of remaining solutions in a step-by-step manner \(e.g by raising the minimum bound in one of the objectives for expanding it \(e.g., by once again relaxing some bounds according to the decision makers  preferences. In all of these cases, the system provides immediate feedback about the consequences of such choices in terms of the remaining alternatives. Let us illustrate this by reducing the maximum allowance for resource A \(cf. Fig. 5 Because this setting has primarily ?ltered those solutions that come with a relatively high value in  Resource Category A  and, on average, a somewhat higher need for resource C but still values in  Bene?t Category A  the options in the other objectives have been reduced as well and the position Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 and size of the ?ying bars have changed accordingly. Raising the minimum value for Bene?t A \(e.g., functionality the set of remaining alternatives even further, since many alternatives with low resource values \(e.g., price cf. Fig. 6 Fig. 5. Status of the DSS after the ?rst setting Fig. 6. Status of the DSS after two settings In further iterations, the decision maker continues playing with minimum and maximum bounds and by doing so can learn about the consequences of his/her decisions and, thus gain a much better  feeling  for the problem in terms of what can be achieved in some objectives at what  price  in terms of opportunity costs in other objectives. After several cycles of restricting and once again expanding the opportunity set, the decision maker will ?nally end up with a solution alternative that offers an individually satisfying compromise between the relevant objectives. Note that he does not need to explicitly specify weights for objectives nor to specify the form of his/her preference function or to state how much one solution is better than another during any stage of the whole procedure. Instead, ample information on the speci?c selection problem is provided to him and the system ensures that the nal solution will be an optimal \(i.e., Pareto-ef?cient with no other feasible solution available that is  better  from an objective point of view  Interactive Selection: Whereas the GSTool provides control recommendations in natural language, CRISAM does not incorporate control recommendations. Both tools do not interactively support the decision maker during this phase. We use our knowledge base that contains concrete implementation instances as a basis and provide decision makers with a stepwise and repeatable methodology that gives them plenty of information on the selection problem at hand. This approach provides them with the opportunity to thoroughly explore the set 


them with the opportunity to thoroughly explore the set of Pareto ef?cient solution alternatives until they ?nd the individually most attractive security investment portfolio while the system at the same time guarantees that only feasible Finally, the method allows the decision makers to learn more about the characteristics of the speci?c decision problem and maybe even about their own preferences XII. CONCLUSIONS Companies consider security as one of the most important issues on their agenda, because the increasing number of security breaches poses a major threat to the reliable execution of corporate strategies and may have negative effects on business value. Risk management ensures the consideration of all possible threats and vulnerabilities, as well as the valuable assets. Existing approaches such as best-practice guidelines information security standards, or domain experts but also risk management approaches that are highly accepted within the community come with shortcomings This paper presented a methodology for supporting the entire NIST SP 800-30 risk management process and provides compared to existing solutions the following bene?ts: \(1 ontological information security knowledge base ensures that the information security knowledge is provided in a consistent and comprehensive way to the risk manager, \(2 the organization  s resources within our ontological framework ensures that resources are modeled in a consistent way, \(3 the incorporation of existing best-practice guidelines and information security standards ensures that only widely accepted information security knowledge is used for threat/vulnerability identi?cation and control recommendations, \(4 Bayesian threat likelihood determination ensures that the threat likelihood determination is based on a more objective level compared to existing approaches, \(5 tomatically calculated after resources have been rated initially Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 6 automatically, \(7 decision makers \(e.g., the risk manager scenarios and, thus, to learn about the characteristics of the underlying problem, while the system guarantees that only ef?cient solution can be selected, and \(8 multiple objectives and providing a gap analysis we support decision makers in getting a much better  feeling  for the problem in terms of what can be achieved in some objectives at what  price  in terms of opportunity costs in other objectives We compared AURUM with common risk management tools namely CRISAM and the GSTool, in terms of usability, time exposure for conducting the entire risk management process completeness of the threat/vulnerability identi?cation and the control recommendations, and the granularity of control implementation suggestions XIII. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was supported by grants of the Austrian Government  s FIT-IT Research Initiative on Trust in IT Systems under the contract 813701 and was performed at the Research Center Secure Business Austria funded by the Federal Ministry of Economics and Labor of the Republic of Austria \(BMWA and the City of Vienna REFERENCES 1] H. Cavusoglu, B. Mishra, and S. Raghunathan  The effect of internet security breach announcements on market value: Capital market reactions for breached ?rms and internet security developers  International Journal of Electronic Commerce, vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 69  104, Fall 2004 2] L. Gordon, M. Loeb, W. Lucyshyn, and R. Richardson  CSI/FBI Computer Crime and Security Survey  September 2006 3] Computer Economics, Inc  2005 malware report: Executive summary  January 2006. [Online]. Available http://www.computereconomics.com/article.cfm?id=1090 4] M. Bishop  What is computer security  IEEE Sec. Priv. Mag., vol. 1 


4] M. Bishop  What is computer security  IEEE Sec. Priv. Mag., vol. 1 no. 1, pp. 67  69, Jan.-Feb. 2003 5] B. Farquhar  One approach to risk assessment  Computers and Security, vol. 10, no. 10, pp. 21  23, February 1991 6] G. Stoneburner, A. Goguen, and A. Feringa  Risk management guide for information technology systems  National Institute of Standards and Technology \(NIST Publication 800-30, July 2002 7] R. Fredriksen, M. Kristiansen, B. A. Gran, K. Stolen, T. A. Opperud and T. Dimitrakos  The coras framework for a model-based risk management process  in SAFECOMP  02: Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Computer Safety, Reliability and Security London, UK: Springer-Verlag, 2002, pp. 94  105 8] C. Alberts, A. Dorofee, J. Stevens, and C. Woody  Introduction to the OCTAVE approach  Carnegie Mellon - Software Engineering Institute Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890, Tech. Rep., August 2003 9] DCSSI  Expression des Besoins et Identi?cation des Objectifs de Scurit EBIOS  General Secretariat of National Defence Central Information Systems Security Division \(DCSSI 2004 10] ISO/IEC  ISO/IEC 27005:2007, Information technology - Security techniques - Information security risk management  November 2007 11] BSI  IT Grundschutz Manual  2004. [Online]. Available http://www.bsi.de/english/gshb/manual/download/index.html 12] M. Vitale  The growing risks of information systems success  MIS Quarterly, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 327  334, December 1986 13] K. Bandyopadhyay and P. Mykytyn  A framework for integrated risk management in information technology  Management Decision, vol. 37 no. 5/6, pp. 437  444, 1999 14] C. Jung, I. Han, and B. Suh  Risk analysis for electronic commerce using case-based reasoning  International Journal of Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance &amp; Management, vol. 8, pp. 61  73, 1999 15] W. Baker and L. Wallace  Is information security under control?: Investigating quality in information security management  IEEE Security and Privacy, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 36  44, 2007 16] R. Baskerville  Information systems security design methods: Implications for information systems development  ACM Computing Surveys vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 375  414, December 1993 17] ISO/IEC  ISO/IEC 27001:2005, Information technology - Security techniques - Information security management systems - Requirements  2005 18] W. Baker, L. Rees, and P. Tippett  Necessary measures: metric-driven information security risk assessment and decision making  Communications of the ACM, vol. 50, no. 10, pp. 101  106, 2007 19] S. Frosdick  The techniques of risk analysis are insuf?cient in themselves  Disaster Prevention and Management, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 165  177, 1997 20] A. Ekelhart, S. Fenz, M. Klemen, and E. Weippl  Security Ontologies Improving Quantitative Risk Analysis  in 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS  07 IEEE Computer Society, Jan 2007, pp. 156  162 21] A. Ekelhart, S. Fenz, G. Goluch, and E. Weippl  Ontological Mapping of Common Criteria  s Security Assurance Requirements  in New Approaches for Security, Privacy and Trust in Complex Environments Proceedings of the IFIP TC 11 22nd International Information Security Conference, IFIPSEC2007, May 14-16, ser. IFIP International Federation for Information Processing, H. Venter, M. Eloff, L. Labuschagne J. Eloff, and R. von Solms, Eds., vol. 232/2007. Sandton, South Africa International Federation for Information Processing, May 2007, pp. 85  95, 978-0-387-72366-2 22] A. Ekelhart, S. Fenz, T. Neubauer, and E. Weippl  Formal threat descriptions for enhancing governmental risk assessment  in Proceedings of the First International Conference on Theory and Practice of Electronic Governance. ACM Press, 2007 23] T. Neubauer, A. Ekelhart, and S. Fenz  Interactive Selection of ISO 27001 Controls under Multiple Objectives  in Proceedings of the IFIP TC 11 23rd International Information Security Conference, IFIPSec 2008, vol. 278/2008. Boston: Springer, July 2008, pp. 477  492 


2008, vol. 278/2008. Boston: Springer, July 2008, pp. 477  492 24] T. Neubauer, C. Stummer, and E. Weippl  Workshop-based Multiobjective Security Safeguard Selection  in Proceedings of the First International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security ARES IEEE Computer Society, 2006, pp. 366  373 25] T. Neubauer and C. Stummer  Interactive Decision Support for multiobjective COTS Selection  in Proceedings of the 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, no. 01, 2007 26    Extending Business Process Management to Determine Ef?cient IT Investments  in Proceedings of the 2007 ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, 2007, pp. 1250  1256 27] W3C  OWL - web ontology language  http://www.w3.org/TR/owlfeatures/, February 2004 28] J. Burtles, Principles and Practice of Business Continuity: Tools and Techniques. Rothstein Associates Inc., 2007 29] T. R. Peltier, Information Security Risk Analysis, 2nd ed. Auerbach Publications, 2005 30] S. Kairab and L. Kelly, A Practical Guide to Security Assessments Boston, MA, USA: Auerbach Publications, 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


well as from practitioners, is available, IL strategy including DWH/BI strategy IL strategies are addressed at all, either actual artifacts/documents are proposed without an integrating meta model/methodology, or the strategy making process is described without proposing specific and consistent result templates/structures Since it consumes a significant amount of resources and may constitute significant potentials for business, IL needs strategy. IL strategy must not be limited to hardware/software selection and architectural considerations, but should address the entire business scope of sourcing services, integrating acquired and self-made services into customer-oriented IL solutions, and delivering such solutions to create customer value Our survey of the state of IL strategy in practice reveals that IL sourcing, IL delivery and IL portfolio strategies are regarded as important strategy components. The larger companies are, the more international their focus is, and the more their IL is organized according to the CC model, the more components of a supply-chain oriented explicit IL strategy they are likely to have deployed The IIM model provides a suitable conceptual foundation for structuring such strategy components and also provides best practices from IT management which often can be easily adapted to IL. Regarding IL product/service development and maintenance certain functional oriented strategy sub-components are differentiated in our framework. These strategy components are adapted from an established data management functional framework in order to reflect IL specifics. While traditional, more technically oriented sub-components such as system and data architecture are covered in most companies, business oriented components like change management and project/business requirements management are covered less frequently. Additional research is necessary to develop appropriate solution components based on existing fragments and experiences Based on a more complete comprehension of IL strategy and its components, the strategy development and update process needs to be addressed in future research as well. Instead of developing and updating business strategies, IT strategies and IL strategies in independent processes, dependencies and cycles need to be addressed. A comprehensive understanding of IL strategy and respective processes may also serve as a foundation for establishing maturity models, reference models and best practices  References 1] Arnott, D. and G. Pervan, Eight key issues for the decision support systems discipline. Decision Support Systems 44\(3  2] Baum  l, U., Strategic Agility through Situational Method Construction. Proceedings of the European Academy of Management Annual Conference 2005, 2005  3] Burton, B., et al., Activity Cycle Overview: Business Intelligence and Information Management. Gartner Research G00138711, 2006  4] Chan, J.O., Optimizing Data Warehousing Strategies Communications of the IIMA, 5\(1  5] Earl, M., Management Strategies for Information Technology, Prentice Hall, New York et al., 1989  6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





