Managing on Purpose: A Practitioner s Goal for a Recalcitrant Bank Bryan Frew Bryan Frew & Associates, Sydney. Australia bryan@thefrews.net   Abstract  Business Process Management \(BPM\as a management discipline, can only deliver value once its principles and practices are effectively integrated into an organizationês business operating model This paper analyses the application and evolution of a holistic model of the BPM management system in a large Australian bank. The model was applied to 
operationalize the principles and practices of BPM within a prevailing culture of reactive management The contributions of this paper are to: \(1 describe extensions to the popular BPM implementation models; \(2\entify a critical organizational change management issue and an unconventional approach to addressing this issue and \(3\opose an alternative engagement model to the èexpertê engagement model employed between the BPM support unit and the business 1. Introduction  The definition of BPM is important to the context of this paper. However the definition is more important for organizations hoping to derive benefits from its implementation. There are many meanings 
assigned to the acronym BPM. The problem is aggravated by the marketing departments of large software vendors putting the latest spin on their products  Until Gartner published their Research Note in August e popu lar def i n i tion a n d approach  to BPM was via the implementation of improvement projects The popularity of the Six Sigma methodology has helped to perpetuate this myth  later dispelled in the Gartner Research note BPM is not a project. Process improvement is a continuous 
outcome from the ongoing management of the business process 1 BPM is not a project nor is it a technology  BPM is a management discipline that provides governance in a business process environment, with the goal of improving agility and operational performance 1 T h is is th e d e f i n itio n u s ed i n th i s  paper BPM is an important advance in management science. Combined with the emerging technology of Service Oriented Architecture \(SOA processes are\e heart of a new business architecture and 
the systems that support it 2 There is currently no standard approach or methodology for the adoption and implementation of BPM.  Process management is still considered an art  Process management must shift from an art to an engineering approach   This practitioner paper is based on the implementation of BPM in a large Australian bank using a holistic approach based on a BPM implementation framework or model Organization change management was identified 
as a critical component of the deployment of BPM The adopted BPM implementation framework model\was extended to address the change management \(people\aspects of BPM implementation. The magnitude of the change management component was amplified by the prevailing culture at the Bank This paper describes how each phase of the BPM model was applied in a large Bank. For each phase of the model the paper reviews: the objectives and benefits; the organizational impact; the deliverables and the change management implications 
Based on this introduction the research questions in this project were   How effective and practical are the popular holistic BPM models in guiding the deployment and implementation of BPM   What are the critical issues regarding organization culture and change management and how are these best addressed   How should the BPM support unit engage with the business in order to be successful The contributions of this paper are   An examination of the popular holistic models of BPM based on a practitioner 
s use of these models to implement BPM practice   Extensions to the BPM model to ensure that the fundamental principles, practices and objectives of BPM are preserved   An organizational change management strategy and engagement model Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


  A description of each phase of the BPM lifecycle with the associated learning\ based on the experience of the practitioner   The application of reflective practice to review progress and adjust the approach as required 2. BPM Implementation Frameworks Organizations looking to adopt BPM tend to rely on BPM frameworks or models to guide their implementation. The most popular models are extremely similar in nature. One was probably derived from the other. Which came first is not known The first model is referenced in the Gartner Research note h e s econ d is p u blis h e d b y Oracle  Corporation [3 a n d is sho w n i n Fi gur e 1   This model was the starting point for the implementation of BPM at the Bank   The Oracle Lifecycle starts with process modeling. Simulation follows \(if appropriate\ test the theoretical performance of the model. The notation used to document these models is based on the BPMN and BPEL notations. This phase is also known as the design phase  The next phase is called the implementation phase Here the process is deployed and executed via a workflow engine \(following orchestration to the respective web services\e final phase is the monitoring phase utilizing a series of process performance monitoring dashboards The Oracle Model is f o cus e d on proces s e s at or near the execution layer. This is typical of many of the BPMS \(application software suite\es by the major vendors including the IBM Websphere Tibco and PegaSystems product offerings There are two fundamental omissions in this model. They were soon discovered during implementation of BPM at the Bank: \(1\e absence of a Strategy Phase and \(2\ements of Governance Ownership and Accountability \(the people-related components It is critical that BPM is strategy driven. The fundamental principle of BPM is that one cannot manage outcomes  e can o n l y  m a n a g e t h e  underlying processes that deliver the outcome Processes are therefore to be designed to realize the strategy once the strategy and objectives have been defined and linked to their corresponding processes The consequences of omitting the strategy phase are significant 1  The absence of higher-level processes \(value chain or other business function model provide context for these operating processes means that processes are designed in isolation The target processes may be optimized to the detriment of the end-to-end processes. \(This is often a criticism of the Six Sigma approach a mental model bias in Six Sigma to avoid tackling large cross-functional processes   2  The obvious issue of not aligning strategy to the underlying core-processes A visionary strategy that is not linked to excellent operational and governance processes cannot be implemented    2.1 Extensions to the BPM Lifecycle Model The BPM Lifecycle was extended to overcome these omissions as illustrated in Figure 2 below Governance Ownership and Accountability  Deploy Execute BPM Lifecycle  Model Simulate Monitor Optimise Establish Align Analyse Strategy Design Control Implementation Figure 1 The Oracle BPM Lifecycle Figure 2 The Extended BPM Lifecycle Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


  The BPM Lifecycle is thus transformed into a closed-loop management system consisting of four major phases   Strategy   Design   Implementation   Control As a closed-loop system it is less important where you start the cycle. It is more important to understand each phase of the lifecycle and its importance in relation to the other phases It may be prudent to start in the Control Phase where the process metrics are exposed through Management Dashboards. This helps to crystallize  the processes and staff can be guided to observe the impact of management decisions on process outcomes The underlying perspective provided by this model is of an enterprise framework anchored to its processes  2.2 The role of the BPM Lifecycle framework The BPM Lifecy r ov ides a h o lis ti c  framework and has multiple applications  Describes the function and benefits of BPM from a business management perspective  Illustrates the importance of defining key performance indicators in the strategy phase to ensure that the data are exposed at the Implementation Phase by the IT Infrastructure  Provides an example of a closed-loop processbased management model  In the Bank the BPM Lifecycle has provided a useful framework to describe the operation and benefits of BPM to all organization levels The BPM Lifecycle plays a significant part during presentations in illustrating the difference between reactive and proactive management via the key benefits derived from each phase 3. Project and Organizational Background This paper is based on the experiences of the Executive Manager, Group Business Process Management \(Group BPM\ in a large Australian Financial Services company. As the name implies Group BPM operates across the Group and as such interacts with all business units including the Enterprise Information Technology \(EIT\business unit The role of the Executive Manager, Group BPM could be regarded as a subset of the role of Organizational Architect described by Sauer and Willcocks Organizational architects sustain a dialogue between visionaries and technologists as they define and design the right combination of structures processes, capabilities and technologies one that has a greater chance of being responsive to the organization s goals  This is the objective of Group BPM with the ultimate goal of providing an environment to support the BPM-related aspirations of the Group. This objective establishes a context for this paper 3.1 A brief history of BPM at the Bank It is appropriate to cover a brief history of process management at the Bank The focus on business processes was reignited at the Bank in 2002 with a program established to ensure compliance with the then new Financial Services Reform Act \(2001\ There was a requirement to access related process documentation This was assumed to be relatively simple as the Bank had done a considerable amount of work on documenting the processes several months prior However upon investigation is was discovered that the documentation had disappeared and the program team had no choice but to start again.  The executive made a decision to acquire a suitable application platform to host a process repository and provide a system-based tool to standardize process documentation. A cross-functional team was established and a consulting firm retained to assist in the acquisition Several months later the successful platform was installed and commissioned at the Bank A small centralized team \(four people\was created to administer the repository, co-ordinate training and provide support across the Group for business process modeling 3.2 Vision for Business Process Management In 2002 a major transformation program was launched at the Bank.  A Lean Six Sigma business area was created within the program and this became the Bank s common approach to process improvement. The Lean Six Sigma initiative played an important part in promoting process-thinking across the Group. Lessons learned from the application of Lean Six Sigma also played an Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


important part in formulating the strategy for the deployment of BPM The vision for BPM was developed in 2003 and described BPM as a management discipline versus a project or technology\ with the key objective being to align the elements of strategy, business processes and Information Technology \(IT\frastructure across the Group to drive business performance and manage \(operational\ risk 3.3 The Challenges of Deploying BPM in a large Financial Services organization BPM practitioners universally decry the apparent inability of the business to understand and acknowledge the benefits of adopting a formal approach to managing the organization s critical business processes. There is much in the literature as to the possible reasons why Andrew Spanyi o m i nates at leas t t h ree  possible reasons Leaders don t care. Leaders can t focus. Leaders don t know how  It was the statement Leaders don t know how  that provided the needed insight. Perhaps they didn t want to know and wanted to maintain the status quo Many similarities were observed between the behavior of managers at the Bank and the behavior of major account sales people with whom the author had previously worked. Two categories of sales people were observed: \(1\hose who sold intuitively using their social skills and \(2\ose who sold using their analytical skills. The category that sold intuitively \(in the experience of the author\were not interested in developing strategy and analyzing market forces they simply wanted to get out, meet people and sell This behavior and the parallels with executives in the Bank was later confirmed by the work of Donald Schon the field of management is split into two camps, each of which holds a different view of the nature of professional knowledge  c h o n  differentiates between management as a science  and management as an art  The author labeled these categories as reactive and proactive management and regarded the transition from reactive to proactive as essential to the success of BPM deployment 3.4 Reactive versus Proactive Management From the above the core organizational change management issue become changing the culture from reactive management to proactive management managing on purpose The author s hypothesis is that a reactive culture evolves over a long period of time until it becomes the dominant culture. A reactive culture focuses on outcomes \(especially financial outcomes\nd the core competency of a reactive culture is problem solving A proactive culture on the other hand develops a deep understanding of their business. They study industry dynamics and develop objectives and strategies to maximize their strengths and minimize their weaknesses. They understand the levers that drive performance \(and manage risk\hey develop an agile operating model that can adapt rapidly to change. In other words they manage on purpose  A proactive management culture depends on a disciplined approach and is considered by those who prefer a reactive style of management as laborious and complex The challenge faced is to transform those who manage reactively to manage on purpose 4. Methodology This paper is based on the direct experience of the author, over a five-year period, in solving a particular business problem How to implement and deploy the principles and practices of BPM in a large financial institution The critical issue was one of organizational change management, changing behavior from reactive management to proactive management From a BPM point of view the main objective of the project was to develop a holistic model that could be used as the framework for implementation. The model would need to   Serve as an instrument to communicate the operation of a BPM-driven organization and its benefits   Provide a road-map to guide implementation; and   Serve as an aid to organizational change management There were three important shifts in thinking that occurred during the project 1  A major shift in thinking occurred when we realized that the prevailin g holistic m  were flawed. They were perpetuating the reactive style of management and leading to modeling practices focused on localized optimization 2  It was further apparent that rational argument had little impact on persuading people of the benefits of BPM. [7  3  Finally it was realized that the expert  engagement model practiced by the Lean Six Sigma area was not working. The business was Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


not effectively engaged in their Lean Six Sigma projects. There was little sense of ownership After completion of the project/s the improvement in business efficiency and effectiveness was often not sustained Of the three, making changes to the BPM Lifecycle was the easiest to achieve. The changes were obvious. Insert a Strategy phase between the Optimize stage and the Modeling stage. The model was complete and represented a closed-loop management system   Establish the organization s objectives and strategy and Align them to their enabling processes. \(At the same time develop the Key Performance Indicators and Key Risk Indicators   Design the processes to realize the strategy. Run Simulation to validate design and metrics   Implement the process; deploy via Standard Operating Procedures \(SOPs\ or Execute via a workflow engine   Monitor Analyze and Optimize the processes using management performance dashboards   If the Objectives are not achieved review the strategy and process-design and modify either \(or both\ as required It proved more complicated to overcome the problem that rational argument was not effective in driving change until we stumbled on the work Stephen Denning was doing with Business Narrative   We attended Stephen s workshop, read several books and spent hours crafting business narratives Although we didn t conduct a formal study to measure the impact of the stories we did get results We were getting the message through. We could tell from the animated discussion that followed the delivery of a story A coaching engagement model combined with lessons in reflective practice was proposed as an alternative to the expert engagement model. The coaching engagement model is designed to be supportive and not confrontational. Reflective Practice aimed at encouraging adult learning was a logical addition. At the time of writing this paper the coaching engagement model is still in the process of being developed and was not yet in widespread use In summary the research methodology was based on Action Learning; Reflective Practice; broad and in-depth reading of past and current literature participation in BPM Forums and Blogs and consultation with both academics and private consulting firms 5. The BPM Lifecycle in Practice Implementation of the BPM Lifecycle was supported by an integrated suite of application software as described in section 3.1. Each phase of the lifecycle was represented by models stored in the BPM repository This section reviews each phase of the BPM Lifecycle. For each phase there is a brief description of   The phase   Objectives and benefits of the phase   Phase deliverables   Organizational impact; and   Change management implications 5.1 The Strategy Phase The Strategy Phase represents the beginning of the \(extended\ifecycle. Strategy Maps and Balanced Scorecard models described by Kaplan and Norton e re created in t h i s P h as e Three model types were used. The first model, the Strategy Map, provided a graphical representation of the four strategic perspectives; financial; customer process and organization capability The second model type was an Objective Model This model linked the objectives defined in each of the strategic perspectives to their respective underlying processes. The model was used to define the Key Performance Indicators \(KPIs\ which were defined within in the model The third model was the Balanced Scorecard Model which defined the cause-and-effect relationships between the objectives from each perspective The goal of the Strategy Phase was to facilitate the development of the defined objectives and strategy of the area of the business being considered and align and link this strategy to the underlying enabling processes The deliverables from this phase included 1  A visual representation of the business objectives and strategy 2  A normalized set of objectives with clearly defined metrics 3  The customer value proposition defined within the market segments 4  The underlying enabling business processes Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


5  The organizational capabilities that must be developed or refined in order to realize the strategy and support the processes The key benefit of this phase was the link between strategy and the processes that would deliver the strategy The linking of strategy to process had been ignored at the Bank in the past. Objectives and strategy were carefully developed and refined but in isolation from their enabling processes Once linked to strategy the critical processes could be the focus of management attention. Without this phase there was a danger that developing corporate objectives and strategy was a useless exercise as the output tended to get lost and ignored over time and the benefits of the strategy process were shared by a few senior managers The process of developing a Strategy Map and the other related models was regarded as a lot of effort by the reactive managers Their tendency was to get on with it   Give me my targets and let me worry about the rest Reactive managers needed to be coached in the benefits of this phase and also the value provided at the completion of this phase a clearly defined strategy document that could be used to focus the efforts of the staff in their business area 5.2 The Design Phase A variety of models were used in this phase. They tended to be a combination of models that provided alternating macro views \(value chain\ and micro views \(dynamic flow models It should be noted that within the standard BPM implementation models modeling in this phase is limited to the execution layers of process. The macro or contextual views are not included There was a tendency during the Business Process Reengineering phase of the early 1990s to model the entire organization. The approach today is based on the concept of a wiki where the process models are developed over a period of time and added to the repository as required then validated and amended by the stakeholders and integrated into the whole via higher-level models A central repository is critical for this wikibased approach to work effectively The objective of the design phase was to document or design the processes that underpin the execution of the strategy There were multiple benefits associated with the ability to view the process in various forms, from both an end-to-end perspective and at a detailed level Different views of the process were considered Characteristics of the process were reviewed as they were documented for example, the purpose of the process; the triggers, the business rules and so on The dynamic flow models could be used in simulation mode \(discrete event simulation\ to gain further insight into the behavior of the process and to test the effectiveness of the defined process metrics  The deliverables from this phase were a useful  set of semantically correct models approved by those responsible for the processes, the business unit leader or the process owner. Having the processes stored in a trusted central repository ensured that all staff had access to the processes In an organization dominated by a culture of reactive management there is rarely a repository of comprehensive process-related documentation. The impact of not having such documentation stored in a trusted central repository is waste The process documentation tends to be in hard copy form and is generally discarded after the completion of the project. The whole process is repeated six to nine months later when a new project is initiated The impact and cost of not having the organization s critical processes is very difficult to measure. But the result is a lack of shared knowledge on how the business works and constant re-work to document processes when a new project is initiated On the positive side comprehensive processrelated documentation provides a common definition of process across the business area and is invaluable in facilitating and understanding of the business leading to the proactive management of the business processes The biggest issue faced in this phase was \(and remains\ develop appropriate modeling skills in the organization. This included mandating the use of the standard modeling tool \(and modeling notation and discouraging the use of drawing tools such as Microsoft Visio and PowerPoint. This was the biggest challenge as staff found it more time consuming to use formal modeling tools where they were constrained by a particular notation There was a tendency to view processes as having one dimension the process steps in a flowchart This was a byproduct of using process flowcharting methods. Training in business modeling versus process modeling was required but no formal training was offered The key change management challenge was to instill a culture of process thinking in the organization. The goal was to get to the stage where staff used process models to describe how their Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


business worked instead of using an organization chart  5.3 The Implementation Phase Processes that have been documented, designed or re-engineered are deployed for execution in the Implementation phase. The intent is that the processes are executed as they have been documented. However this is rarely the case where the processes are not automated. These processes are called shadow processes and the practice is very difficult to eliminate Processes can be manually deployed using Standard Operating Procedures \(SOPs\ey can be governed by the execution of application software eg a Loan Processing system or they can be automated using workflow technology If the processes have been designed to align with the organization s objectives and strategies then this is the moment of truth. Effectively designed and documented processes provide the foundation for continuous improvement providing their execution is standardized In the case of the Bank there was little standardization of workflow engines and workflow deployment. The integration of process design and process implementation only occurred in a few areas of the business. The application of workflow technology was generally an outcome of individual projects Ideally the deliverables from this phase are robust, efficient processes the realization of the organization s objectives and strategy. However in reality process execution was disconnected from process design In addition to process deployment the process execution environment must effectively expose the process metrics that are designed in the Strategy Phase and utilized in the Control Phase The key organizational change required to bridge the gap between process design and process execution was closer collaboration between the business and the technology units. The business needed to understand the IT infrastructure required to execute business processes. This required business analysts that had a technical capability On the Technology side, the Enterprise architects needed to work more closely with the business or ideally within the business 5.4 The Control Phase The control phase consists of three sub-phases monitor, analyze and optimize. The control phase requires fairly sophisticated technology to extract the metrics from the process. This phase is also more commonly known as Business Activity Monitoring BAM The monitoring of process performance is extremely important. Once the process is monitored by a suitable tool then it is possible to easily apply and sustain\ Statistical Process Control \(SPC methods to analyze process performance It is essential to establish the degree of stability in a process. Once the process is stable \(under control one can then apply statistical methods to analyse and communicate the behavior of the process. Once the process is stable it is possible to predict the behavior of a process within its control limits \(process capability\. Only then is it appropriate to make adjustments to the process structure in order to control the degree of variation exhibited by the process  The objectives of the Control Phase were to monitor the performance, analyze the process behavior \(variation\nd identity assignable causes and common causes of variation by applying SPC methods  The key benefit was being able to predict the output of the process within the tolerance of its control limits. A secondary benefit was to illustrate the impact of management intervention on the process performance The deliverables included detailed information about the performance of the process based on the execution of the process itself. The metrics were not theoretically derived but were extracted directly during process execution Management dashboards provided the information to the staff who worked on and worked in the processes to support them in executing their tasks and serving the end customers Having facts to guide management decisions had an important impact on the organization. The tendency to blame individuals for poor performance diminished. Instead there was a focus on the process How did the process allow this to occur 11  This attitude was actively promoted by the BPM support unit There were many more benefits. The link between process performance and achieving business outcomes become clear with a greater emphasis on process management The use of Statistical Process Control is traditionally limited to manufacturing organizations Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


However the penetration of Six Sigma has meant that more organizations are being exposed to its practice In a culture of reactive management training staff not to make decisions based on a single data point was critical. They needed to accept the process as it was, ensure it was under control before they started to change the process structures. It was critical that they understood the difference between common and special causes of process variation  6. Discussion and Lessons Learned The extended BPM Lifecycle \(represented by Figure 2\gives the impression that the deployment of the principles and practices of BPM at the Bank was a logical systematic process. This was not the case The initial focus was process modeling and the development of a business architecture without reference to any implementation framework. This situation was aggravated by a major Sarbanes-Oxley compliance initiative. It was much later that we decided to adopt a BPM framework The framework adopted was based on the standard BPM framework. The issues of governance and ownership and the disconnect between strategy and their corresponding processes were known. These issues and their impact were discussed and the solution of the extended BPM Lifecycle evolved However the BPM Lifecycle, as a framework for the deployment of BPM is now well understood. It can be effectively used by the Bank \(and other organizations\ide their BPM deployment The first research question How effective and practical are the popular holistic BPM models in guiding the deployment and implementation of BPM  can now be answered. Without the addition of the Strategy Phase we were at significant risk of promoting the practices of reactive management by not considering processes in a global and strategic context The issue of organizational change management addressed by the extended BPM Lifecycle focused on changing the culture from reactive management to proactive management. This was \(and still is\e critical issue. The use of the BPM framework to draw attention to this behavior and combined with business narrative were interventions that achieved some success Business narrative was used to overcome the tendency to use rational argument as the only method to encourage change. However Stephen Denning  describes the use of different story structures to support the entire deployment lifecycle.  The use of additional story types in this way has promise and is to be explored later The nature of engagement between the BPM support unit and the business received a lot of attention. It became clear that an expert engagement model was not effective. Although it did produce results these results were not sustained and the business never really owned their business processes An engagement model based on executive coaching and reflective practice showed more promise and was welcomed by the business units. It was a less confronting model based on collaboration and the attitude that the BPM unit was part of the business not a separate area An important issue is the provision of work-place training of BPM staff in executive coaching and reflective practice. This will be critical to the success of the coaching engagement model. The most appropriate method is probably to use coaching and reflective practice to train the BPM coaches. This is an area that needs further research and attention The Strategy Phase was a significant addition to the lifecycle. However the business initially regarded the use of models to document strategy as a lot of effort This reaction was no surprise in the context of reactive management. Reactive managers tend not to be comfortable with analysis Once the sense of effort was overcome they tended to enjoy the process and found it very stimulating and useful. They also had a sense of ownership of their strategy as they have helped to formulate it. They understood a great deal more about how their business worked than they did before participating in the process In the Modeling Phase we learned that it is extremely important to ensure that the users have a positive experience in using a more sophisticated process modeling tool. Training in the use of the tool as well as training in modeling business processes is required. This is equally true for both business and technical staff The models need to be simple and staff need to be encouraged to provide high level models such as value chains to provide a context for the dynamic flow models The key lesson learned is that the processes must be useful to the business if they are to be maintained The intent is to make the process documentation indispensible to the managers as an aid to managing their business. This is achieved by the additional information recorded with the objects that make up the models \(object attributes\he tool used to document the processes must have the ability to maintain attributes that are used to describe the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


process and provide details on each aspect of the process In the Implementation Phase simply having application software that is capable of automating the business processes is not enough. Business representatives need to understand the capability of technology to deploy and automate processes Technology staff need understand business sufficiently to provide them with an awareness of the possibilities that can be derived from process automation and the emerging technology of SOA Finally in the Control Phase implementing a process and business monitoring tool is a complex undertaking. There is a very steep learning curve involved in all aspects from installation configuration, testing and training staff in the use and analysis of the tool It is critical to clearly communicate how each of the Key Performance Indicators \(KPIs\ has been calculated and how they should be interpreted and used. The users must trust what they see so it is important to have a transparent validation process in place that can be used to demonstrate the accuracy of the measurements and results. Be prepared for rapid acceptance and understanding from the business and requests for advanced features. This behavior may reflect the penchant of reactive managers to solve problems There are many areas for further research. It would be interesting to profile managers using Kolb s Learning Style Inventory T h is  w o u l d prov ide further insight into the characteristics of reactive versus proactive managers and provide alternatives for intervention strategies. It is possible that a balance of reactive management and proactive management is likely to be more effective than a single management style 7. Conclusion This paper has illustrated the use of a holistic framework, the BPM Lifecycle and its use in the deployment of business process management \(as a management discipline\in a large Australian financial services organization The paper demonstrates that the commonly used BPM models omit two key elements: \(1 Phase and \(2\e important dimension of Governance Ownership and Accountability. Without the link to strategy organizations will tend to focus on local process optimization of process to the detriment of the performance of the end-to-end processes A visionary, competitive strategy that is not linked to operational processes cannot be implemen Effective process management is not possible without appropriate governance and ownership Suitably qualified, experienced and trained staff are required for the role of Process Owner. Their authority to modify or approve modifications must be derived from corporate policy - the formal delegated authority to modify a process The paper argues that the introduction of BPM is further complicated in an organization dominated by reactive-style managers. Converting these managers to proactive-style managers is a major organizational change management imperative Furthermore these managers aren t persuaded by rational argument. More effective approaches such as the use of business narrative must be used to initiate and accelerate the required change Finally an expert engagement model is not effective for deploying BPM. Business executives and their staff require coaching in the application of BPM principles and practices assisted by training in Reflective Practice to internalize the learning The discipline of BPM is extending rapidly assisted by technology advances. The integration of business rules engines into process modeling tools holds the promise of agile processes and redefines the role of risk managers The extended BPM lifecycle is not specific to the financial services industry but could be applied to other industries. It provides a very high level framework. The underlying elements can be adapted to include evolving aspects of BPM including the definition, testing and deployment of business rules and the documentation and management of technology related elements such as web services The journey at the Bank is not complete by any means. It is merely the end of the beginning The major aggravating factor is scale. There are a large number of people, business units and a complex technology platform and an ever changing market environment However the modified and extended BPM Lifecycle has proved to be a useful model to support the introduction and deployment of business process management at the Bank 8. References  M e len o v sky  M i ch ael J a m e s Business Process Management as a Discipline Gartner Research note RA3_01112007, August 2006  2 Sm ith, H o w a rd a nd Fing a r P e te r Business Process Management. The Third Wave Megahn-Kiffeer Press, August 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


 Oracle D a ta S h eet  Oracle Business Process Management Suite Oracle Corporation, 2008  4 K a pla n R obe rt a nd N o rt on D a v i d The Execution Premium. Linking Strategy to Operations for Competitive Advantage Harvard Business School Publishing Corporation, 2008  5 Sa ue r, C a nd W illc oc k s L  P. \(20 02 The Evolution of the Organizational Architect Spring: MIT Sloan Management Review, pp. 41-49   A n d r ew S p an y i   More for Less. The Power of Process Management Meghan-Kiffer Press, Tampa Florida, 2006  7 D e nni ng Ste p he n The Springboard: How Storytelling Ignites Action in Knowledge-Era Organizations Butterworth-Heinemann, 2000  8 R obe rts  K a p l a n a n d D a v i d P. N o rt on Strategy Map: converting intangible assets into tangible outcomes  Harvard Business Press, 2004  9 S c ho n D  A   The Reflective Practitioner JosseyBass Inc. San Francisco. 1983  1 W h eel er Do n a l d a n d Ch am b e rs Da vi d   Understanding Statistical Process Control SPC Press 1992  11 D e m i ng W Ed w a rds   Out of the Crisis MIT CAES, 1982  12 K o l b D  A  1976a  e a r ning Sty l e Inve ntory   Boston, MA: Hay Group, Hay Resources Direct  13 ID S-Sc he e r D a ta She e t A R IS Bus ine s s Rule s  Designer. \(2008\-Number: FS-ABRD-0408-E  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


  11  M a rc S. A l len Space Operations: Mission Management Technologies, and Current Applications Progress in Astronautics and Aeronautics, American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics, 2007  H.Li ebe, \223M odel i ng at tenuat i on and phase of rad i o  waves in air at frequenc ies below 1000GHz,\224 Radio Science, Vol 16, No 6, pp 1183-1198, 1981 2 J. Ham k i n s and M  K. Si m on, Eds Autonomous Software-Defined Radio Receivers for Deep Space Applications Hoboken NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc 2006 B IOGRAPHY  Sahana Raghunandan is currently pursuing her PhD degree in Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Wireless@VT. Her research interests include software defined radios resource allocation for wireless networks, and hardware and software design of radar systems. She completed her M.Sc studies in electrical engineering at The University of Kansas, Lawrence  Shereef Sayed is pursuing his M.Sc. in Computer Engineering under Dr. Jeff Reed at Wireless@VT. His research interests include models of computation coarse grained configurable computing machines, and embedded platforms. He is also one of the original developers of the OSSIE project and continues to assist in its development Tamal Bose received the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Southern Illinois University in 1988. After faculty positions at the Citadel and the University of Colorado, he joined Utah State University in 2000, where served as the Department Head and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering from 2003-2007 Currently, he is Professor of the Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engin eering at Virginia Tech. He is also the Associate Director of Wireless @ VT The research interests of Dr. Bose include adaptive filtering algorithms, nonlinear effects in digital filters, and multidimensional system theory. He is author of the text Digital Signal and Image Processing, John Wiley, 2004. He is also the author or co-author of over 100 technical papers Dr. Bose served as the Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing from 1992 to 1996. He is currently on the editorial board of the IEICE Transactions on Fundamentals of Electronics, Communications and Computer Sciences, Japan. He also served on the organizing committees of several international conferences Dr. Bose received the 2002 Researcher of the Year award from the College of Engineering at Utah State University and the 2002 Teacher of the Year award from the department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. He received the Researcher of the Year and Service Person of the Year awards at the University of Colorado at Denver He also received two Exemplar y Researcher awards from the Colorado Advanced Software Institute. He is an IEEE EAC program evaluator and a member of the DSP Technical Committee for the IEEE Circuits and Systems society Jeffrey H. Reed is the Willis G. Worcester Professor in the Bradley Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering From June 2000 to June 2002, Dr. Reed served as Director of the Mobile and Portable Radio Research Group MPRG He currently serves as Director of the newly formed umbrella wireless organization Wireless @ Virginia Tech Dr. Reed\222s area of expertise is in software radios, cognitive radio, wireless networks and communications signal processing. His book, Software Radio: A Modern Approach to Radio Design was published by Prentice Hall in May 2002. His latest book, An Introduction to Ultra Wideband Communication Systems was published by Prentice Hall in April 2005 Dr. Reed received the College of Engineering Award for Excellence in Research in 2001 In 2005, Dr. Reed became Fellow to the IEEE for contribu tions to software radio and communications signal processing and for leadership in engineering education   


                                Box 3.1. Basics of Survival Analysis  A comprehensive discussion of this topic in the context of PHM can be found in Ma and Krings \(2008a Survival analysis, also known as failure time analysis, has become a de facto standard for analyzing time-to-event data in biomedical research in the last two decades Survival analysis studies positive random variables for describing times to events in concern, also known as survival time, failure time, or simply time-to-event  Survivor Function and Hazard Function  Survivor function and hazard function are two of the most fundamental definitions in survival analysis. The survivor function S\(t time \(T is lt;&lt;?= ttTPtS 0   Note that S\(t function R\(t instantaneous rate of failure at T=t, conditional upon survival to time t.  It is defined as      lim  0 tS tf t tTttTtPt t  lt The above definitions are for univariate survival analysis; survival analysis has been extended to multivariate systems, or the multivariate survival analysis Hougaard 2000, Ma and Krings 2008c 3.7 and 3.8 for Multivariate Survival Analysis  Fundamental Model of Survival Analysis  


 Cox \(1972 most fundamental model in survival analysis. It is a semi-parametric model that correlates conditional survivor \(hazard vector \(z  Hazard Function ?\(t, z covariate vector z zetzt  0 where ?0 \(t function for continuous failure time T  Conditional Survival Functions \(on z   0   ztSztS where  t duutS 0 00 exp is the baseline survivor function  There are numerous extensions to Cox's model \(e.g Therneau and Grambsch 2000, Martinussen &amp; Scheike 2006 8                             UUUR, survival analysis, competing risks analysis, and multivariate survival analysis can be utilized to assess the effects of UUUR events. This forms the foundation of tactical level modeling in the three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008  3.2. Competing Risks Analysis  Competing risks analysis \(Box 3.2; Ma &amp; Krings 2008b for detailed discussion in the context of PHM and reliability subject of survival analysis. It has a history dating back to 1760 when Daniel Bernoulli studied the risks around the smallpox inoculation. However, modern competing risks analysis draw extensively on survival analysis, which was only initiated in late 1950s but the active research was not conducted until the1970s The application of competing risks analysis in reliability is quite earlier, the most famous model may be the Marshall-Olkin model 


earlier, the most famous model may be the Marshall-Olkin model 1967 controversies around the issues of identifiability, which shadows its value when multiple latent risks are dependent.  Three excellent monographs exist for competing risks analysis \(David &amp Moeschberger 1978, Crowder 2001, Pintilie 2006 perspective of survivability analysis, competing risks analysis can be used for analyzing the effects of unpredictable risks by treating the unpredictable events as censored or the effects of latent risks We use the term latent risks to refer to potential failure risks \(but only one of the risks ultimately causes the system failure survivability analysis; this usage of latent risks is totally consistent with the concept of latent risks in competing risks analysis, where these risks are modeled precisely  3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis                                                      Cont' Box 3.1  Another model that is of nearly comparable status with Cox model is the Accelerated Failure Time model 


Cox model is the Accelerated Failure Time model AFT e.g., Kalbfleisch &amp; Prentice 2002, Lawless 2003  Mean Residual Life \(MRL The mean residual life \(MRL lifetime for a sensor node of "age" t and is defined as   tTtTEtMRL &gt  It can be proved that the following equation holds Klein and Moeschberger 2003             tS dxxS tS dxxftT tMRL tt     where S\(t  Proportional Mean Residual Life Models exp  0 ztmztm T that m\(t|z the covariates, and m0\(t lifetime \(Oakes and Dasu 1990; Chen &amp; Cheng 2005 This model should be particularly useful for PHM Box 3.2. Basics of the Competing Risks Analysis \(CRA  In competing risks analysis \(CRA experiences multiple risks simultaneously, but it may fail from one of the risks only and fail only once. The risk that leads to the failure becomes the cause of the failure Therefore, risk is often used before the failure occurs and the cause is preserved for the afterwards \(Crowder 2001 failure is the defining characteristic of competing risks analysis. It also implies that the system is multivariate from the perspective of risks, but univariate from the perspective of the single failure time and single cause  There are two sets of formulations for CRA in the literature. The first is described with a pair of vectors of random variables the latent \(theoretical David and Moeschberger 1978 used below well as sub-survival functions \(Crowder 2001  There is one and only one cause in the set of k causes for each failure observed.  The elements of C are called risks before failures and causes afterwards. The risks compete for the cause. In reliability analysis, C might be faulty components in a series system and T is the breakdown time of the system; or C might be the failure modes, such as asymmetric vs. symmetric  The sub-distribution function is defined as   tTjCtjF equivalently, the sub-survivor function is defined as   tTjCtjS &gt Obviously jptjFtjS   where   jSjFjCp j represents the marginal distribution of C 


represents the marginal distribution of C  The sub-density function f\(j, t represented by  dttjdStjf The marginal survivor function and marginal density of T can be calculated with kj tjStS 1       1? ==?= kj tjfdttdStf The related conditional probabilities are Pr \(time t |cause j j, t Pr \(cause j | time t j, t t Pr\(time t | cause j caused by j, for example, the survival time distribution of cancer patients in a biomedical experiment. Similarly Pr\(cause j | time t specific age group 9 The latest advances in survival analysis have been centered on multivariate systems. Multivariate survival analysis has two major categories of models: one is multi-state modeling; the other is shared frailty modeling. Multi-state models, although formulated differently in both fields, have been extensively studied in reliability analysis in the context of Markov chain analysis. In contrast, shared frailty modeling seems little known in reliability analysis and PHM. To the best of my knowledge, there is only one reference in the form of monograph, i.e., by Hougaard 2000 analysis in the context of reliability and PHM can be found in Ma &amp; Krings \(2008c 2008d frailty and multi-state modeling, respectively. Given the complexity involved with multivariate survival analysis, any description of actual model is quite involved and hard to fit in a comment box. Box 3.3 only contains a few concepts  The previous univariate survival analysis and, to a lesser extent, the competing risks analysis have several significant limitations. The first limitation is the implicit assumption of single failure or single time-to-event transition. In Figure 2 multiple states and multiple transitions are the norm, rather than the exception. This is a multivariate survival system and multi-state modeling is obviously more appropriate than the univariate or competing risks analysis. Competing risks analysis can only address the multiple risks, but not multiple failures, which further can be dependent with each other. In more general terms, multiple failures with common-events modes represent the typical failure mechanisms in a multivariate system, but both univariate survival analysis and competing risks analysis can help little in modeling the dependences This constitutes the second limitation.  A third limitation is that not all covariates are observable, and some of the unobservable or unobserved may have critical influences on the 'survival' \(or transitions between states nodes. These unobservable covariate factors may create common-risks dependences, and the shared frailty model can capture these kinds of unobservable common-risks While the capability to capture the effects of unobserved or unobservable common-risks is critical for reliability modeling, its criticality to survivability modeling cannot be overemphasized because the quantitative study of this issue does not exist in the existing survivability research Therefore, shared frailty modeling is a critical tool for studying the influences of UUUR events in the tactical level modeling of survivability  Of course, the above limitations discussed equally apply to the traditional reliability theory because traditional reliability theory is based on the binary-state logic \(either failed or operational especially of computer networks, is often characterized by 


especially of computer networks, is often characterized by the multi-state performance degradations before reaching the complete failure. This multi-state nature of reliability has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and the most significant advances have been in the field of multistate reliability modeling \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003                                                 4. STRATEGIC MODELING AND DYNAMIC   Box 3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis  Dependence Mechanisms  Dependence is often the central focus of multivariate survival analysis, and together with censoring, they complicate survival analysis most significantly. Hougaard \(2000 three mechanisms of dependence: \(i ii iii Common events are equivalent to common mode failures in reliability analysis, for example, failure events due to accidents or natural disasters. The common risks mechanism describes the scenario that the individuals are dependent due to some common unobserved risks such as common genes in siblings or a bug in the operating system that may affect all software running on 


operating system that may affect all software running on it. The third mechanism, event-related mechanism refers to the phenomena that the actual event itself changes the risk, such as virus infection of a computer node Shared Frailty Modeling  Shared frailty theory occupies the central focus of multivariate survival analysis. The dominance is not accidental because frailty captures crucial but often directly unobservable \(latent random variables, which are attributable for dependence and variations. To some extent, dependence, variation randomness, and frailty all address some facets of multivariate failure events. The frailty theory provides a unique set of approaches to address the theoretical and practical issues related to those four concepts.  Similar to the fact that censoring is the trademark feature of survival analysis \(both univariate and multivariate frailty theory is the trademark of multivariate survival analysis. These two trademark properties, censoringhandling and frailty modeling, have made multivariate survival analysis a unique and indispensable mathematical tool for biomedical and public health research Multi-State Modeling  Multi-state has been developed concurrently in several fields in the last decade, including survival analysis \(Hougaard 2000 reliability \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003 Commenges 1999 Huzurbazar 2006 multi-state modeling has been adopted to solve the domain specific problems, and the flow graph modeling offers a flexible and powerful approach to analyze multi-state models in general. Multi-State model is often formulated as Markov Process models. The transition probabilities in multi-states modeling are well defined by survivor functions \(Hougaard 2000 multi-state model is to estimate the state transition probabilities from hazards functions. multivariate system. According to Lisnianski and Levitin's \(2003 any systems that can have a finite number of performance rates are multi-state systems. Furthermore a system may consists of components which themselves could be multi-state subsystems 10 4. STRATEGIC LEVEL MODELING AND DYNAMIC HYBRID FAULT MODELS  Hybrid fault models are derived from agreement algorithms Lynch 1997 redundancy management in fault tolerance.  Therefore, the choice of hybrid fault models directly affects reliability analysis and fault tolerance. Despite the close ties between reliability and fault tolerance fields, Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e Ma 2008a with regard to the quantitative relationship between reliability analysis and hybrid fault models. To address the unrealistic assumption, they proposed a new concept  dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF mathematical tools \(survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling we first briefly describe the issues involved and summarize some of their key findings in Box 4.1  Agreement algorithms started out with the introduction of the Byzantine general problem by Pease et al. \(1980 Lamport \(1982 system are abstracted as generals of an army.  Loyal generals \(non-faulty components algorithm e.g., to attack or retreat while traitors \(or bad components others by sending conflicting messages. Because the focus of agreement algorithms is to reach agreement in the presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the 


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


