Security for Pervasive Healthcare 
Oscar Garcia-Morchon  Thomas Falck  Tobias Heer Klaus Wehrle 
latency needs and lots of mobility is expected this paper  we introduce a deployment model for wireless sensor networks for pervasive health care based on the concepts of patient area and medical sensor networks We propose a complete and efficient security framework organized into three layers addressing 
Wireless sensor networks are going to allow for ubiquitous health monitoring improving users well-being making the healthcare system more efficient and helping to quickly react on emergency situations Meeting the strict security needs of ubiquitous medical applications is a big challenge safety and privacy of patient data has to be guaranteed all the way from the sensor nodes to the back-end services the system has to 
fulfill 
Abstract 
In 
I 
Index Terms 
OW AD AYS sensor and wireless communication technologies are rapidly evolving and conquering new application areas in the healthcare domain Wireless medical sensors forms the user's patient area network 
the operational requirements and security needs at the patient area network medical sensor network and back-end levels We specify how these layers are interconnected with each other as well as the needed security and privacy mechanisms that allow for the efficient and practical deployment of secure pervasive healthcare systems based on wireless sensor networks 
Medical Information Systems Medical Sensor Network Patient Area Network Security are becoming smaller and more powerful allowing for ubiquitous usage of a wide range of medical applications such as chronic disease management In the simplest healthcare setting a fixed set of 
WMSs 
WMSs 
N 
INTRODUCTION 
PAN 
allowing for health monitoring and measuring the user's vital signs A gateway can allow the user or medical staff to access gather or process her medical data directly or transmit it to a remote healthcare service The ubiquitous use of enables pervasive health monitoring of users in their daily life improving their well\255 being and quality of medical care yet allowing for cost reduction in the healthcare sector  Pervasive health monitoring in these diverse situations and locations is carried out by different organizations such as surgeries fitness centers hospitals or retirement homes by means of a medical Manuscript rece ived on June 9 2009 O Garcia-Morchon oscar.garcia philip s.com and T Falck thomas falck philip s com are with 
t h 
PANs 
Distributed Sensor Sy stem s at Philips Research Europe  the Netherland s T Heer tob ias heer rwth-aachen.de and 
sensor network allowing authorized parties such as medical staff  family or sport trainers to access to the sensed health information Thus 
D igital Object Identifier  10.41OBI/CST MOBIQUITOUS2009 6962 http://dx doi org/10 410B/ICST MOBIQUITOUS2009 6962 
K 
Wehrle Klaus wehrle rwth-aachen de are with Distributed S ystem s at RWTH Aachen Un iver sity  Germany 
MSN 
PANs 
in the  or the European Directive These concerns become especially challenging due to the resource-constrained nature of the wireless medical sensors the strict latency requirements and the mobility and scalability requirements of systems involving a multitude of parties  II SECURITY FOR PERVASIVE MEDICAL SENSOR NETWORKS We propose a flexible and extensible security framework  addressing both the hospital-centric approach predominant today in which each healthcare institution has complete control on the medical data and a patient-centric vision  
PANs 
s each comprising thousands of sensors accommodating hundreds of users's 
will not be isolated but will interact coexist and become a part of a world of professional MS see Fig 1 and related example The exchange of users medical data leads to privacy and security concerns hence basic security services are required to fulfill legal regulations such as 
N US 
HIP AA 
Our security framework comprises three Fig 
where the patient controls her electronic health information 
PANs MSNs  MSNs  
I 
Application Scenario of pervasive and The health state of a user  Robert  is monitored in a multitude of medical sensor networks managed by a surgery  a health care i ns titution or a gym Robert mo ve s between those and different wirele ss s ensors 
EHI  
s uc h as 
can be u sed in each to form Robert s 
and monitor his health state 24/7 Robert s identity should be linked to his health data independently of hi s location  t ime or med ical equ ipment  while en suring the pr ivac y and security of his 
PAN 
ECG MSN 
health data when different 
MSNs 
and back-end services interact with each other Here  secure interaction should guarantee that medical data measured in different environment s is securel y tran sferred without endanger ing R obert s privacy  This work describes our secur ity framework and dis cu sses the elements that enable efficient security in this context 
 


nd 
MSN MSN MSN MSNs PANs MSNs PAN WMSs PAN WMSs PAN MSN PAN PAN PAN PAN MSN MSNs PANs PAN PAN MSN AN PAN PSM 
management and ensures the 
extremely intuitive as sensors only need to be attached to the patient's body and the 
security layer 
interoperability across the whole system of 
just have to enroll at the certification authority to become part of the healthcare system owning 
MSN 
MSNs PANs PSM PSM MSNs PANs MSNs 
complementary security layers addressing the management of 
Digital Object Identifier 10.41 OB/ICST MOBIQUITOUS2009.6962 http://dx.doi.org/10.41 OB/ICST MOBIQUITOUS2009 6962 
P P P P P P P 
International Conference on Body Area Networks BodyNets 2007 June 2007 
allows each healthcare organization e.g a hospital to manage the security in its security domain It allows any pair of devices or users in the same to bootstrap a secure communication link and identify each other For this layer we focus on lightweight and distributed cryptographic methods based on polynomials for key establishment identification and information verification These mechanisms are i lightweight to fulfill the delay requirements and save the scarce node resources and ii distributed to fit the medical workflow in medical staff can communicate with any and clinicians are continuously moving The allows a user to manage the security in her own patient area network and ensures the secure disclosure of her measured medical data when interacting with e.g clinicians in an security manager that allows transforming a can securely join and leave at any time according to access control methods running on the The reason for this is that the forming a belong to the security domain but the measured medical data belongs to the user The application of a tamper resistant healthcare card which forms a part of a user's simplifies the The layer further incorporates lightweight security mechanisms and protocols to configure a when a user joins an enable distributed access control to the relies on public-key cryptography and ensures the secure interaction of users moving between and some secrets such as a pair of public/private keys or a unique identifier This overall arrangement aims at ensuring the easy autonomous and transparent management of the whole system in professional environments where users without technical background must be able to intuitively handle the security appliances given to them We move all the set up procedures for security to the moment when a user joins an The low resource requirements of the symmetric\255 cryptographic primitives  used during normal system operation guarantee the transparent but secure system operation without disturbing the medical workflow The use of body-coupled communication at the layer makes handling with a 
controlled by different healthcare organizations We assume a simplified centralized model for this layer based on public-key infrastructure and a single certification authority managing the healthcare system Thus 
security layer back-end security layer 
automatically and securely configures them as members of the 
AN AN AN AN AN AN 
and overall secure interoperation by means ofa back-end security layer The security framework focuses on mechanisms for the distribution and establishment of secret keys that allow bootstrapping secure links access control to the sensed information and privacy-aware management of the medical data and user's identities We combine centralized and distributed security solutions in order to provide an adequate balance between performance and security requirements Each layer provides specific security algorithms as well as the physical elements and technologies needed for our framework to fulfill the specific operational requirements and ensure for seamless interaction between layers The they encounter in a direct way although both and back\255 end services The security management of this layer is centralized and it relies on a trusted device linked to and controlled by the patient the into a security domain where and the sensed electronic health information and identify a in a privacy-aware way by means of pseudonyms The security domain III CONCLUSIONS Medical sensor networks allows for pervasive health monitoring Security and privacy are key requirements for the successful deployment of those systems in which the sensed medical data must be protected all the way from the sensors to back-end systems This paper provides a comprehensive view on our efficient and practicable security framework including security algorithms technologies and procedures Our solution provides an adequate balance between security and performance matching the expected system workflow Thus we allow for the feasible and secure deployment of the envisioned pervasive healthcare systems REFERENCES  U Varshney Pervasive Healthcare Computer vol 36 no 12 pp 138-140 Dec 2003  The US Congress Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act Washington D.C 1996 online available at http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/hipaal  The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union Directive 95/46/EC online available at http://www.cdt.orgjprivacy/eudirective/EU_Directive_.html  T Falck H Baldus 1 Espina and K Klabunde Plug'n Play Simplicity for Wireless Medical Body Sensors in proc of Pervasive Health Conference and Workshops 2006 vol no pp.1-5 2006 5 Patient-centric the 21st century prescription for healthcare Healthcare and life science July 2006  O Garcia-Morchon T Falck T Heer and K Wehrle Security for Pervasive Medical Sensor Networks in proc of the Sixth Annual International Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Systems Computing Networking and Services MobiQuitous 2009  O Garcia-Morchon and H Baldus Efficient and Distributed Security for Medical Sensor Networks in proc of ISSNIP 2008  Smart Card Alliance White Paper HIP AA Compliance and Smart Cards Solutions to Privacy and Security Requirements September 2003 www.smartcardalliance.orgjpages/publications-hipaa-report  C Cordeiro and M Patel Body Area Network Stardardization Present and Future Directions in proc Of 2 
 


attempted in providing community-wide wireless networks, but none has been an obviously overwhelming success.  For-profit, not-for-profit, and public-private models have all been tried with very limited success.  Many, if not most, of these projects have failed due to the large cost involved in creating the required wireless infrastructure.  One possibility that has not yet been seriously attempted is using the wireless infrastructure that already exists throughout most communities.  That infrastructure is the one created by individual wireless network routers installed by residents in their own homes.  If a city wishes to use this infrastructure, however, it must know much more about its residents attitudes toward network security and allowing others to access their own wireless computer network This research project was initiated to find answers from residents to questions such as: do you secure your home computer network?  If not, why not?  Would you be willing to share your home wireless computer network?  If so, would you require some type of compensation for doing so By finding the answers to these questions as given directly by the residents of a city, it may be possible to create a viable model that will solve many of the problems inherent in creating a wireless city without incurring the costs associated in creating a commercially-generated wireless network  3. Methodology  3.1. On-line survey  A pilot on-line survey was created and tested with approximately 40 residents of the city of Oakland California.  Using the results of that survey and the comments of the respondents, a larger on-line survey of 16 questions was created.  Letters were mailed to 4783 households of Oakland, California requesting the resident respond to the on-line survey.  Of those 4783 households, 168 on-line surveys were completed resulting in a response rate of about 3.5%.  To induce residents to fill out the on-line survey, two 4 Gbyte Apple iPod Nanos were randomly given away to respondents who left an email address for contact The city of Oakland, California, was chosen because it had neighborhoods of varying income but similar housing density and style \(i.e., single-family dwellings\ollecting data from neighborhoods of differing income levels was important because it would not be possible to extrapolate the survey and data analysis results if all data was collected from residents of only one income level.  Ensuring that housing density and style were similar across all respondents ensured that data collected about detected residential wireless networks \(part of a related research project would not be skewed by the residential density in one neighborhood compared to another.  For example comparing the number of detected residential wireless networks in a neighborhood comprised mostly of apartments would indicate ceteris paribus a higher density of network nodes than the number of network nodes found in a neighborhood comprised mostly of single-family homes.  This higher network node density would, however, be due to the higher housing density rather than to the higher number of network nodes per housing unit, which is the unit of measure under investigation in the related research project  3.2. Survey question topics  The on-line survey asked 16 general questions related to residential wireless computer networks and those who use them.  The questions \(and the possible responses\ were on the topics of 1 type of home Internet access \(Dial-up, DSL Cable Modem, T1, I don t know 2. respondent s sex \(male, female 3. respondent s age range \(0-20, 20-30, 30-40 40-50, 50-60, 60-70, 70 and over 4 other wireless Internet access \(yes, no 5. if yes response on 4, what type of other wireless Internet access \(free-form text response 6 is network secured \(yes, no, don t know 7. if no response on 6, why not \(I did not know it was possible, I did not know how to make it secure, It was too time consuming to do, It was too difficult to do, I was afraid of locking myself out of my own network, I want to share it with the outside world, Other please specify 8. if Other: please specify response on 7 specific reason why network not secured free-form text response 9 knowledge of respondent concerning wireless computer networks \(Not knowledgeable Slightly knowledgeable, Knowledgeable Very knowledgeable, An expert 10 age of wireless network \(Less than 6 months Between 6 months and 1 year, Between 1 year and 3 years, More than 3 years, I do not know 11. importance of Internet access compared to other household technology expenses such as landline phone, cellular phone, cable/satellite TV \(Not important, Slightly important Average, Important, Very important Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


12 willing to leave network unsecured in return for some compensation if doing so did not violate any law \(yes, no 13. if yes response on 12, inducement required to leave network open \(a reduction in one of my city services bills, a tax write-off, cash free Internet access at wireless hotspots elsewhere, I would not need anything in return, Other: please specify 14. if Other: please specify on 13, what other inducement would respondent require in return for leaving network unsecured \(freeform text response 15. if cash response on 13, how much/month 5, $10, $15, $20, $25, $30, $35, $40, $45 50 or more 16. any other comments about the survey \(freeform text response  4. Analysis  Software from Zoomerang w a s u s ed t o  construct the on-line survey and to collect the survey responses.  Response data were collected by the on-line survey software and stored on the server website.  The survey data were downloaded and stored in a spreadsheet six weeks after the initial letters were sent the city residents.  By that point in time, no new survey response sets had been completed in the previous week.  Multiple worksheets were then created to store and analyze the specific responses for each survey question  4.1. Quantitative analysis  Survey questions 1-4, 6, 7, and 9-13, and 15 forced the respondent to give pre-defined responses.  This was enforced by giving respondents single or multiselection radio buttons from which to choose their responses.  Spreadsheet calculations were used to perform simple percentages of responses for each of these questions.  The results of those calculations are presented in the quantitative analysis results section below  4.2. Qualitative analysis  Survey questions 5, 8, 14, and 16 allowed the respondent to give open-ended responses.  This was enabled by giving respondents free-form text fields in which to type any response they wished.  Spreadsheets were used to store and organize the responses for each of these questions.  The results of those summaries are presented in the qualitative analysis results section below  5. Results  5.1. Quantitative analysis results  Table 1 displays the results of the responses to question 1 \(type of home Internet access\.  Note: data from the respondent who indicated they did not have Internet access at home was not included in the rest of the analysis.  This resulted in 167 usable responses for the subsequent data analysis steps   Table 1. Type of Internet access  Response I don't have Internet access at home Dial-up DSL Cable T1 I don't know No response Number 1 1 77 84 4 1 0 Percent 0.6 0.6 45.8% 50.0% 2.4 0.6 0.0  Table 2 displays the results of the responses to question 2 \(sex of respondent\urvey responders out-numbered females survey responders by a ratio of about two to one.  Two responders did not indicate their sex  Table 2. Sex of respondents  Response Male Fema le No response Number 111 54 2 Percent 66.5% 32.3 1.2  Table 3 displays the results of the responses to question 3 \(age range of respondent\he age of survey responders varied across all age ranges, with 90% between 30 years of age and 70 years of age Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


Note that about 4% of survey responders were over the age of 70  Table 3. Age of respondents  Response 0-20 20-30 30-40 40-50 50-60 60-70 over 70 No response Number 1 8 28 47 47 29 7 0 Percent 0.6 4.8 16.8% 28.1% 28.1% 17.4 4.2 0.0  Table 4 displays the results of the responses to question 4 \(other wireless Internet access available The split between those who have other wireless access to the Internet was approximately 60:40 in favor of those who do not have another mechanism by which to wirelessly access the Internet  Table 4. Other wireless Internet access available  Response Yes No No response Number 62 103 2 Percent 37.1% 61.7 1.2  Table 5 displays the results of the responses to question 6 \(is network secured\pproximately onequarter of respondents knew that their home wireless computer network was not secured.  It is reasonable to expect that the 3% who did not know if their home wireless computer network was secured actually did not have secured networks  Table 5. Is network secured  Response Is secured Is not secured I do not know No response Number 121 41 5 0 Percent 72.5 24.6 3.0 0.0  Table 6 displays the results of the responses to question 7 \(why home wireless computer network is not secured\.  Reasons were split somewhat equally between all possible responses for those 20 respondents who gave pre-defined reasons for not securing their home wireless computer networks.  Of possible significance to using community wireless networks to create a wireless city 6 out of the 20 respondents who chose pre-defined responses indicated that they intentionally left their home wireless computer network unsecured because they want to share it with the outside world Also note that no respondents indicated that It was too difficult to do was the reason for not securing their wireless network.  An additional 20 respondents gave other  reasons for leaving their networks open  Table 6. Why network is not secured  Response I did not know it was possible I did not know how to make it secure It was too time consuming to do It was too difficult to do I was afraid of locking myself out of my own network I want to share it with the outside world Other please specify No response Number 2 5 4 0 3 6 20 0 Percent 5.0 12.5 10.0% 0.0% 7.5% 15.0% 50.0% 0.0  Table 7 displays the results of the responses to question 9 \(knowledge of respondent concerning wireless computer networks\The vast majority of survey respondents indicated that their knowledge of wireless computer networks was in the middle ranges.  Only a total of about 10% of respondents indicated that they were at either extreme end of the knowledge spectrum by labeling themselves Not knowledgeable or An expert   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Table 7. Respondents wireless computer network knowledge  Response Not knowledgeable Slightly knowledgeable Knowledgeable Very knowledgeable An expert No response Number 11 79 41 29 7 0 Percent 6.6 47.3 24.6 17.4 4.2% 0.0  Table 8 displays the results of the responses to question 10 \(age of wireless network\lightly over 80% of survey respondents indicated that their home wireless computer networks had been running for over one year.  Less than 15% indicated that their wireless networks had been running for less than one year  Table 8. Age of wireless network  Response Less than 6 months Between 6 months and 1 year Between 1 year and 3 years More than 3 years I do not know No response Number 10 14 77 60 3 3 Percent 6.0 8.4 46.1 35.9 1.8 1.8  Table 9 displays the results of the responses to question 11 \(importance of Internet access compared to other household technology expenses such as landline phone, cellular phone, cable/satellite TV Internet access is apparently very important to the set of survey respondents, as 97.6% indicated that compared to other household technology expenses landline phone, cellular phone, cable/satellite TV etc.\ey considered it to be Important or Very important Perhaps even more telling about household technology expenses is that absolutely no survey respondents indicated that Internet access was Not important or Slightly important   Table 9. Importance of Internet access relative to other technology expenses  Response Not important Slightly important Average Important Very important No response Number 0 0 4 29 134 0 Percent 0.0 0.0 2.4% 17.4% 80.2 0.0  Table 10 displays the results of the responses to question 12 \(is the respondent willing to leave their home wireless computer network unsecured Slightly less than half of the survey respondents indicated that they would be willing to leave their home wireless computer network unsecured in return for some type of compensation if doing so would not violate any law.  The responses to this question get at the heart of creating a wireless city by using the wireless networks in the homes of city residents  Table 10. Respondents willing to leave wireless network unsecured in return for compensation  Response Yes No No response Number 78 89 0 Percent 46.7% 53.3 0.0  Table 11 displays the results of the responses to question 13 \(what respondents would require in return for leaving their wireless network unsecured Note that respondents were allowed to choose multiple responses for this question; therefore no percentages were calculated for this question.  Also table 11 does not show that a total of 72 respondents gave some type of response to this question.  It is apparent that respondents would be willing to leave their home wireless computer networks open for a variety of different types of compensation.  Note that 38 of the 168 \(22.6%\ondents would be willing to accept free Internet access elsewhere in return for giving others Internet access at their own home which is the essence of the franchising business model discussed above  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Table 11. Respondent s requirement in return for leaving wireless network unsecured  Response reduction in one of my city services bills tax write-off cash free Internet access at wireless hotspots elsewhere I would not need anything in return Other please specify Number 44 31 48 38 17 13  Table 12 displays the results of the responses to question 15 \(amount of cash/month that respondents would require in return for leaving their wireless network unsecured\or those respondents who would accept cash compensation in return for leaving their home wireless computer network unsecured, 2/3 would accept $25 or less while 3/4 would accept $30 or less  Table 12. Amount of cash/month required by respondent in return for leaving network unsecured  Response 5$ 10$ 15$ 20$ 25$ 30$ 35$ 40$ 45$ 50$ or more Number 2 11 2 9 9 4 1 2 1 8 Percent 4.1% 22.4% 4.1% 18.4% 18.4% 8.2 2.0 4.1 2.0 16.3 Cumulative Percent 4.1% 26.5% 30.6% 49.0% 67.3% 75.5% 77.6% 81.6% 83.7 100.0  5.2. Qualitative analysis results  Responses to questions 5, 8, 14, and 16 were openended and so were not amenable to direct quantitative analysis.  Summaries of these open-ended responses are presented in this section.  Those responses given by more than one respondent are indicated as such Question 5 \(what type of other wireless Internet access do you have\ulted in two or more responses each of   public airports: NOT the Apple-branded wireless router   AT&T Uverse   Blackberry   Caf   Cellphone   Freeloading on neighbor \(5 responses out of 62   iPhone   Starbucks   Public transit: free WiFi on city buses   Work \(14 responses out of 62 Question 8 \(specific reason why network is not secured\ulted in two or more responses each of   Didn t seem necessary/important/didn t care/not worth the trouble   I use a Mac and am not worried about viruses And the following singular responses   Don't b-cast the net name and restrict by MAC addr   Had to reboot system and haven't secured again   Haven't taken time to secure. Have secured HW   I don't care if others use it   I have both secured and unsecured. Wanna share   It was secured; a network card had a problem   Signal is too weak to access from outside  Question 14 \(what other inducement would the respondent require in return for leaving their home wireless computer network unsecured\ resulted in the following responses   ability to limit bandwidth on free-net; security   access to a community network that would work   BART tickets   Basically any cooperative venture would be fine   Depending on the cause the use is for   faster connection   guarantee that traffic wouldn't be burdensome   I support free speech.  'net is designed 2 share   It depends greatly on the reason for the request   no loss of speed or service reliability   no reduction in security   security of all data and communication   security preventing others getting to my computers Question 16 \(other comments about the survey responses ranged from BORING and useless and Nobody in their right mind would leave their wireless network open to strangers to Good luck with your research and I'm intrigued about the thesis Interested in learning what you discover Many respondents voiced their concern about security indicating that they would consider leaving their home Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


wireless networks unsecured, but only if they had a guarantee that it would not jeopardize their own personal data Some respondents left more detailed responses such as As it turns out, I work at a small wireless networking company.  I have long wanted to set up a series of neighborhood wide access points sharing the costs network among our neighbors and reducing our overall bills to access the internet.  This could be done with security and minimal expense and time, but I haven't had even that much time to set it up  and from another respondent whose neighbor apparently did what the previous respondent was considering My home internet service is wireless, too.  We have an internet entrepreneur in the 'hood who started by syndicating a T1 line to half a dozen neighbors.  He has expanded beyond the neighbors and now has a $3MM/year business.  I pay $49/mo for a very fast connection that arrives at my house wirelessly   6. Conclusion  Results of the survey show numerous surprising outcomes.  With regard to those hoping to implement some type of community wireless network or similarly based business model, there appears to be some hope that residents are or can be persuaded to let others use their home wireless computer networks Perhaps most surprising relevant to the community wireless network model is that, of the 40 respondents who did not secure their home networks, 6 directly stated that they wanted to share their Internet access with outsiders.  An additional 3 respondents stated this in their free-form response to the question.  This implies that many residents would not require any compensation at all for leaving their network open to support a community wireless network.  Also, almost 50% of all respondents indicated that they would be willing to leave their network open for some type of compensation if it were legal to do so.  Of those who would require cash compensation for leaving their network open, 75% would require $30 or less/month to do so.  This also bodes well for communities who are searching for inexpensive ways to become wireless cities   7. Limitations and future research Certainly the results of this research project are limited by the number of respondents and the geographic location in which the survey was implemented.  Researchers in other locations may well obtain different results due to the economic technological, or geographic vagaries of their respondents.  The research is also limited due to the process by which respondents completed the survey While all known mailing addresses in the survey area were canvassed in soliciting respondents to complete the on-line survey, no control was implemented over those who actually chose to complete the on-line survey.  There is therefore an unknown effect on the research results of the actual population of survey responders There are also several possible useful avenues for future research in this area.  One obvious direction to pursue is to do a more detailed statistical analysis to determine if there are patterns within the data.  That is there may be hidden or underlying relationships that would yield more valuable in sights into correlations in the dataset.  For example, there may be indications about the type of resident who is more or less likely to leave their wireless network unsecured, based on the age, sex, knowledge, etc., of the resident.  Another useful future research direction would be to gather survey data from other cities in other states or countries to see if the attitudes found in this research project are common over a larger audience of users In any case, the results of the survey show that there is definitely promise for the future of community wireless networks.  Also, it may well be possible to solicit the help of city residents in creating the underlying wireless infrastructure to build the elusive wireless city   8. References  1 E  Vo s Muniwireless.com July 2005 report found at http://www.baller.com/pdfs/Muniwireless_7-05.pdf, accessed on June 8, 2008   S  V e rm a an d P  Beck m a n   A Framework for Comparing Wireless Internet Service Providers with Neighborhood Area Networks Proceedings of the 2002 Americas Conference on Information Systems, Dallas, Texas, August 8-11, 2002   S   V e rm a P  Beck m a n  an d  R Ni ckerso n   Identification and Classification of Business Models for Wireless Internet Service Providers and Neighborhood Area Networks  Proceedings of the 2002 Information Strategy & Tec hnology Forum, Berkeley, CA, October 15-16, 2002  4 F Bar, an d G  Hern an  Building the Wireless Internet Infrastructure: From Cordless Ethernet Archipelagos to Wireless Grids Communication & Strategies, 54\(2\2004 pp. 45-54   R U m al i   A Comparative Study of Commercial Wireless Networks and Community Wireless Networks  Master s degree thesis, San Francisco State University, 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


found at: http://is.sfsu.edu/files/rumali_thesis_complete.pdf accessed on June 10, 2008  6 W  L e hr, M Sirb u, a nd S G ille tt Municipal Wireless Broadband: Policy and Business Implications of Emerging Access Technologies  Networking: Wireless and Wireline  2004  7 J. Ellig A D y na m i c P e rspe c tiv e on G o v e rn m e nt  Broadband Initiatives, Reason Foundation, Policy Study 349, 2006  8 F Bar an d N  P a rk  Municipal Wi-Fi Networks: The Goals, Practices, and Policy Implications of the US Case  Communications & Strategies, 61\(1\2006, pp. 107-124  9 A   T a pia  C. Ma itla nd, a n d M. Sto n e   Making IT work for municipalities: Building municipal wireless networks  Government Information Quarterly, 23 \(3-4\ 2006, pp. 359380  10 C  M i d d le to n A Framework for Investigating the Value of Public Wireless Networks Telecommunication Policy Research Conference, Arlington, VA, 2007  11 A  A bde la a l a nd H  A li Typology for Community Wireless Network Business Models Proceedings of the Thirteenth Americas Conference on Information Systems Keystone, Colorado, USA, August 9-12th, 2007  12 Zo om e r a n g   f ound a t http w w w z oom e r a n g  c o m   accessed on June 8, 2008  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


desired information provider, the needed Web services with descriptions stored in a WS repository are bound to the process. Besides abstract WS transitions, WS invocation transitions are also utilized to buy transport ticket, reserve hotel, make registration, and check received ticket and confirmations. The dashed outgoing arcs of the place ?WS repository? are read-only connections with selective Filter Schema. The way of how to bind Web services whose descriptions are stored in the repository will be explained in Section 5.3  5.2. Data and data flow modeling  XML nets provide inherent ways for data and data flow modeling. Data objects that move through XSN can be modeled as XML documents whose structure is typified by XML Schemas. Filter Schemas can be used Figure 2. XML net-based abstract service composition process for travel arrangement Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 to select, create, modify or \(partially uments and thus realize data manipulation and flow of the documents. Supported by software tools like INCOME2010 [12], non-flowing process objects, e.g roles, resources, process metrics, key factors etc., can also be modeled in XML and assigned or bound to process or process elements for validation or monitoring purposes In WSC, the flowing data objects are usually messages that serve as input and output of Web services Messages are encoded in XML format and exchanged over standard XML-based messaging protocols like SOAP. Using XML nets, messages as XML documents can be easily modeled as tokens of places and typified by XML Schemas like SOAP Schema2 In the context of WSC, message passing usually refers to asynchronous communication among Web services by sending structured data packages over transport protocols. One problem in message passing is that an output message of a Web service could be incompatible with the required input message of another WS For instance, an output message containing 3 strings as service invocation results cannot be used by a Web service which requires only 2 strings as input parameters. This message incompatibility problem can be solved with XML nets by adding a WS chaining transition as mediator between two WS invocation transitions to adjust their input and output messages. The function of the mediating transition is realized straightforward by Filter Schemas assigned to its incoming and outgoing arcs Figure 3 shows an example to illustrate how XML nets are used to solve this problem. A mediating transition ?adjust message? is added between two WS invocation transitions for reserving hotel and checking hotel reservation, respectively. The SOAP response of the hotel reservation service contains detailed information about reservation id, hotel, customer, room, price, date  2 http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope and payment status etc. The SOAP request for the reservation checking service provided by the hotel requires only reservation ID. To preclude this incompatibility, Filter Schema FS1 is used to deliver the SOAP response to the mediating transition, and FS2 to create SOAP request using reservation ID filtered from the response The mediating transition can also be used to aggregate or disassemble messages. In the first case, it acts as an AND-join transition, which means it has several 


incoming arcs and only one outgoing arc. Filter Schema of the outgoing arc contains variables used in Filter Schemas of the incoming arcs. In the latter case, the mediating transition is an AND-split transition that has only one incoming arc and several outgoing arcs. Variables of the Filter Schema assigned to the incoming arc are used to construct Filter Schemas of the outgoing arcs  5.3. Web Service Discovery and Selection  In this paper we distinguish between Web service discovery and Web service selection. While Web service discovery refers to the process of finding functionally suitable Web services in a set of service descriptions that are unknown a priori, Web service selection deals with comparing and choosing appropriate Web services from a known set of descriptions according to customized preferences, including non-functional constrains or requirements, e.g. quality of services \(QoS WS selection is often used after WS discovery to render more accurate and desirable results, especially when several Web services with the same functionalities are discovered. In WSC, WS discovery and selection are applied to achieve process dynamics by finding and integrating Web services to a predefined abstract service process at run-time Taking advantage of Filter Schemas and transition inscriptions that contribute to process rules of XML net models, we can combine WS discovery and selection Figure 3. Using XML nets to solve message incompatibility problem reserve hotel check hotel reservation reservation confirmation adjust message Information for checking reservation FS2 Envelope BodyHeader ReserveHotelResponse room address customer namename hotel dateprice payment emaildeparturearrival  0..1  FS1 reservationId Header  Envelope Body checkHotelReservationRequest  0..1 reservationId Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 with the definition and \(re process rules. At development-time, Filter Schemas for service filtering can be created according to an XML schema of Web service description, e.g., WSDL Schema3, UDDI Schema4 etc. Transition inscriptions can also be used to define constraints for service selection 


also be used to define constraints for service selection At run-time, the workflow engine for XML nets interprets and evaluates Filter Schemas and transition inscriptions to filter and create Web service descriptions as XML documents. With process monitoring and administration tools which are usual components of workflow management systems, new criterions and constraints for WS discovery and selection can be incorporated at run-time by reconfiguring transition inscription statements and variable instantiations in Filter Schemas  Instantiating abstract WS transition Figure 4 shows a fragment of the abstract WSC process in Section 5.1 to demonstrate the ability of XML nets in WS discovery. To obtain transport information, Web services whose descriptions are stored in an unknown WSDL repository should be discovered The token count of the place representing the repository is supposed to be unlimited. The abstract transitions find transport info service? and ?get transport information? are used to bind and call Web services at runtime. The incoming arc of the transition ?find transport info service? is a reading connection \(represented by a dashed arc nipulative Filter Schema FS2 used to create Web service descriptions is assigned to the outgoing arc of this transition. FS1 and FS2 are both generated according to WSDL Schema  Adapting abstract WS transition at run-time Suppose that the transition ?get transport information? is used to acquire flight information. Variables in FS1 should be \(partly  3 http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl#A4.1 4 http://uddi.org/schema/uddi_v3.xsd es supplying flight information. As shown in Figure 5a the variable of the attribute filter ?name? of the element filter ?service? is instantiated with a regular expression for filtering Web services whose name contains the string ?flight?. This regular expression, together with the Filter Schema, is parsed to XQuery/XPath statements in process simulation or execution. If we use a reconfiguration tool to modify the regular expression at run-time as shown for example in Figure 5b, the transition ?get transport information? can then be adapted to acquire other transport information, e.g., train information. After a suitable WSDL document has been found, FS2 is used to create a new WSDL document for the place ?WS description by cloning the discovered document. Figure 5c shows the diagram of FS2 containing the WSDL root element definitions? and an element placeholder, which is used because the internal structure and details of the document to be created are not of interest in the case of document duplication  QoS-aware WS selection XML nets can also be used to select desired Web services if service constraints like QoS or customized preferences are taken into consideration. As WSDL and OWL-S provide no or limited ways for describing Web service?s QoS, we use in this paper OWL-QoS 43], which complements OWL-S with an ontology to specify QoS metrics for Web services, to demonstrate the ability of XML nets for \(QoS-aware Naturally, other Web service ontologies \(e.g., MOQ 11 e.g., WSLA [18 can also be used for this purpose Figure 6 shows another XML net fragment for the acquisition of transport information by selecting OWL 


acquisition of transport information by selecting OWLQoS documents which describe quality of Web services from a repository that contains 3 OWL-QoS documents discovered previously. Similar to the example in Figure 2, the Filter Schema FS1 is used to read and select appropriate OWL-QoS documents, and the Filter Schema FS2 to create new OWL-QoS documents for the place ?OWL-QoS document?. As Filter Schema provides no means for formulating inequality operators like ?&gt;? and ?&lt;=?, which are usually used to express constraints with parameters whose quantitative values are limited to a certain interval, transition inscriptions Figure 4. XML net for Web service discovery Figure 5. Filter Schemas for Web service discovery definitions 1 service name: \\s*flight\\s*/i c definitions service name: \\s*train\\s*/i b a definitions 1 1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 can be used in combination with Filter Schemas to formulate QoS constrains Suppose that the traveler wants to use only the Web services that cost no more than 100 US Cent. The Filter Schema FS1 should then be created as shown in Figure 7. The variable of the attribute filter ?rdf: resource? of the element filter ?owl: onProperty? is instantiated with a regular expression to filter OWL-QoS documents specifying the property ?costUSCent?. To ensure that the maximal cost of the Web service doesn?t exceed 100 US cent, the inscription of the transition ?select transport info service? should be formulated as owl:maxCardinality &lt;= 100?. In process simulation or execution, the inscription is parsed and integrated into XQuery statements using XPath inequality operators  6. Conclusions  In this paper we presented a WSC method based on XML nets, which inherit advantages of Petri nets such as formal semantics and graphical expression. XML nets have additional strengths in the description of process and data objects, and the exchange of XMLbased structured data. The advantage of using XML nets for WSC is that control flow modeling, data and data flow modeling, and WS discovery and selection can be realized using a uniform powerful modeling language. Some uncomplicated tasks, as illustrated before, can be fulfilled without developing or using additional software components or agents. Naturally XML nets can also be combined with other Web service techniques to fulfill more complicated and demanding tasks  7. Acknowledgement  The authors would like to thank the anonymous referees for many valuable comments on an earlier version of this paper  8. References  1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching 


1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching Web Service Coordination and Composition by Means of Petri Nets: the Case of the Nets-within-Nets Paradigm?, ICSOC 2005, LNCS 3826, pp.185-197, 2005 2] M. ter Beek, A. Bucchiarone, and S. Gnesi, ?Web Service Composition Approaches: From Industrial Standards to Formal Methods?, Second International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services \(ICIW?07 Computer Society, 2007 3] X.N. Feng, Q. Liu, and Z. Wang, ?A Web Service Composition Modeling and Evaluation Method Used Petri Net?, LNCS Volume 3842/2006, pp. 905-911, SpringerVerlag, 2006 4] H. Foster, S. Uchitel, J. Magee, and J. Kramer, ?Modelbased verification of Web Service Compositions?, 18th IEEE International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp. 152- 161, 2003 5] X. Fu, T. Bultan, and J.W. Su, ?Analysis of Interacting BPEL Web Services?, WWW2004, pp. 17-22, New York USA, May 2004 6] J.D. Ge, H.Y. Hu, P. Lu, H. Hu, and J. L  Translation of Nets Within Nets in Cross-Organizational Software Process Modeling?, SPW 2005, LNCS 3840, pp. 60-375 Springer-Verlag, 2005 7] Group for program system, faculty of Information Technique University Dortmund, ?PDDL?, http://ls5www.cs.uni-dortmund.de/~edelkamp/ipc-4/pddl.html 8] R. Hamadi and B. Benatallah, ?A Petri Net-based Model for Web Service Composition?, Fourteenth Australasian Database Conference \(ADC2003 CRPIT, Vol. 17, pp. 191-200, 2003 9] S. Hinz, K. Schmidt, and C. Stahl, ?Transforming BPEL to Petri Nets?, BPM 2005, LNCS 3649, pp. 220?235, Springer-Verlag, 2005 10] H. Kang, X.L. Yang, and S.M. Yuan, ?Modeling and verification of Web Services Composition based on CPN 2007 IFIP International Conference on Network and Parallel Computing-Workshops, pp. 613-617, 2007 11] H.M. Kim, A. Sengupta, and J. Evermann, "MOQ: Web Services Ontologies for QOS and General Quality EvaluaFigure 6. XML net for Web service selection Figure 7. Filter Schema for QoS-aware WS selection owl:Ontology owl:Class rdfs:subClassOf owl:Restriction rdf :resource : "\\s+#costUSCent owl:onProperty owl:maxCardinality   rdf:RDF Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 tions", European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS 2005 12] S. Klink, Y. Li, and A. Oberweis, "INCOME2010 - a Toolset for Developing Process-Oriented Information Systems Based on Petri Nets", International Workshop on Petri Nets Tools and APplications \(PNTAP 2008, associated to SIMUTools 2008 March 2008 13] O. Kluge, ?Petri nets as a Semantic Model for message Sequence Chart Specifications?, proceedings of INT 2002 pp. 138-147, 2002 14] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, ?Inter-Organizational Business Process Management with XML Nets?, H. Ehrig, W Reisig, G. Rozenberg, H. Weber \(Eds gy for Communication Based Systems, LNCS 2472, pp. 243263, Springer-Verlag, 2003 15] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, "Workflow Services: A Petri Net-Based Approach to Web Services", Int. Symposium on Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Pa 


Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Paphos/Cyprus, November 2004 16] L. Lin and I.B. Arpinar, ?Discovery of Semantic Relations between Web Services?, IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS?06 17] Q. Lin, J.D. Ge, H. Hu, and J. Lu, ?An Approach to Model Cross-Organizational Processes using Object Petri net?, 2007 IEEE Congress on Services \(SERVICES 2007 pp. 146-152, July 2007 18] H. Ludwig, A. Keller, A. Dan, R. P. King, and R Franck, ?Web Service level Agreement \(WSLA Specification version 1.0?, IBM, 2003 19] N. Lohmann, P. Massuthe, C. Stahl, and D. Weinberg Analyzing Interacting BPEL Process?, S. Dustdar, J.L. Fiadeiro, and A. Sheth \(Eds 32, Springer-Verlag, 2006 20] S.A. Mcllraith and T.C. Son, ?Adapting Golog for Composition of Semantic Web Services?, 8th International Conference on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning KR2002 21] S.A. Mcllraith, T.C. Son, and H.L. Zeng, ?Semantic Web Services?, IEEE Intelligent Systems, March/April 2001 16\(2 22] N. Milanovic and M. Malek, ?Current Solution for Web Service Composition?, IEEE Internet Computing, NovemberDecember 2004 23] S. Narayanan and S.A. Mcllraith, ?Simulation, Verification and Automated Composition of Web Service?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 24] The Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards \(OASIS Process Execution Language Version 2.0?, 11 April, 2007 http://docs.oasis-open.org/wsbpel/2.0/wsbpel-v2.0.pdf 25] S.R. Ponnekanti and A. Fox, ?SWORD: a Developer Toolkit for Web Services Composition?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 26] Z.Z. Qian, S.L. Lu, and L. Xie, ?Colored Petri Nets Based Automatic Service Composition?, 2007 IEEE AsiaPacific Services Computing Conference, pp. 431-438, 2007 27] C. Ouyang, E. Verbeek, W.M.P. van der Aalst, S. Breutel1, M. Dumas1, and A.H.M. ter Hofstede1, ?Formal semantics and analysis of Control flow in WS-BPEL?, BPM center Technical Report, BPM-05-15, 2005 28] J.H. Rao and X.M. Su, ?A Survey of Automated Web Service Composition Methods?, SWSWPC 2004, LNCS 3387, pp. 43-54, Springer-Verlag, 2005 29] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Application of Linear Logic to Web Service Composition?, 1st International Conference on Web Services, Las Vegas, USA, June 2003 30] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Logic-based Web Services Composition: From Service Description to Process Model?, 2004 International Conference on Web Services, pp.446-453, San Diego, USA, July 2004 31] M. Sgroi, A. Kondratyev, Y. Watanabe, L. Lavagno and A. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli, ?Synthesis of Petri Nets from Message Sequence Charts Specifications for Protocol Design?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp. 193-199, 2004 32] W.M.P. Van der Aalst, "The Application of Petri Nets to Workflow Management", The Journal of Circuits, Systems and Computers, 8\(1 33] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C Semantic Markup for Web Services?, 22 November, 2004 http://www.w3.org/Submission/OWL-S 34] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vices Choreography Description Language Version 1.0?, 17 December, 2004, http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/WD-ws-cdl10-20041217 35] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Choreography Interface \(WSCI 


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





