Agents of Diffusion Insights from a Survey of Facebook Users  Rebecca Ermecke CDTM, LMU Munich ermecke@cdtm.de  Philip Mayrhofer CDTM, LMU Munich mayrhofer@cdtm.de  Stefan Wagner INNO-tec, LMU Munich swagner@bwl.lmu.de  Abstract  In times of web 2.0 and its strong focus on user interaction in business models, entrepreneurs and investors of internet businesses often back up their ambitious growth expectations with the argument of viral distribution. However, there exists little 
evidence on the determinants of consumers willingness to voluntarily and actively exchange information about internet applications Based on survey data of 475 Facebook users, this paper makes a contribution to fill this gap. Key findings are that passive \(observation of other users and active \(purposeful recommendations from peers viral channels are equally important to make users aware of a novel product. Active viral channels however, dominate in convincing users to actually start using a product or service. We also find that users are altruistically motivated to recommend applications and predominantly use built-in invitation mechanisms in the application as a communication channel for recommendations 
This paper contributes to the field of electronic marketing in two ways. First and foremost it brings forward empirical evidence on the interpersonal aspects of the mechanisms behind viral distribution and word-of-mouth marketing. Second, it presents the illustrative case of Facebook which has become a fore-runner in online marketing when it comes to taking into account user interaction and behavior  1. Introduction  The term viral refers to the observation that information about new products seem to spread like a virus from one person to another without any central coordination mechanisms. Depending on individuals 
 inclination to pass on the information they received this distribution mechanism can result in an exponential increase in infected i.e. informed subjects. Viral distribution of product information relies on social influence in the sense that actions of an individual A affect another individual B in her beliefs or actions The purpose of this paper is twofold: First, it examines how different forms of social influence make other people aware of a new product or service and impact someone 
s subsequent decision whether or not to adopt it. We will distinguish between two different types of social influence depending on the role of the influencing person. The influencing person is said to be passive if she exerts influence on others indirectly, e.g. by displaying the results of her own adoption decision in a transparent manner. In contrast, the influencing person is said to be active if she undertakes a purposeful attempt to influence 
others to also add an application, e.g. by explicitly inviting her friends to install the application In principle, the information on novel products in online social networks could be spread through passive viral channels as other people s actions are transparent to their peers as well as through active viral channels as most web-based applications include tools for an easy generation of recommendations through a myriad of online communication features. It is the aim of this paper to examine the relative importance of these inherently different channels for both the spread of information 
on new products as well as for the adoption decision of individuals The second objective of the paper is the analysis of those people who actively recommend certain products or features and pass on information to their peers. From a firm s perspective, knowing what segments of consumers are more likely to actively disseminate information on their products is highly relevant. Based on this knowledge specific marketing activities can be tailored to this segment of users in order to foster viral spread of information related to a firms products 
The paper proceeds as follows: Section 2 provides a review of the literature in the realm of viral marketing and social influence. The background and research environment of the study are introduced in Section 3. Section 4 discusses our methodological approach and describes the sample that was used for the empirical analysis. Section 5 finally presents results from our empirical analysis. It also derives implications relevant for interested scholars as well Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


as practitioners. Section 6 summarizes findings and implications and concludes with a brief discussion of possible limitations of the study that suggest further research  2. Literature review  Rogers tif ie s con s um ers social system and communication channels as important determinants of the diffusion of innovations Furthermore, he stresses the importance of an individual s perception of the characteristics of an innovation. One of the most important characteristics from a consumer s perspective is the relative advantage of an innovation compared to previously available products; perceived personal benefit derived from the adoption of an innovation must be superior compared to an existing system of use Moreover, perceived ease of use facilitates adoption whereas more complex innovations, and those that are difficult to understand and to use, typically need more time to spread. As an innovation by its very definition is something new and previously unknown it involves uncertainty for the individual and possibly brings about risk in its adoption. The lower the perceived risk of adoption th e faster is its diffusion We will use this framework to relate users  perceptions to their adoption decisions as well as to their propensity to recommend innovations to their peers Social influence between individuals, in general works independently of third-parties, such as firms In the marketing literature, however, various concepts that aim at managing and commercially exploiting social influence can be found and are often subsumed under the term viral marketing  This literature argues that one of the most important success factors of viral marketing campaigns is to not to frame it in an overly intrusive way. Subramani and Rajagopalan o te t h at the unw ise us e o f  v i ral  marketing can be counterproductive and shed a negative light on products. It is essential, that influencers are perceived as knowledgeable helpers among their peers instead of just marketing agents of some company. Schemes that make too obvious and clumsy attempts to encourage users to promote products and services are likely to destroy the balance and reduce the effectiveness of the approach which hurts both the company and the users who may have derived value from the knowledge-sharing acts of influencers The concept of word-of-mouth marketing WOM\ely related to viral marketing and is often used synonymously. WOM is defined as informal, person-to-person communication between a perceived non-commercial communicator and a receiver regarding a brand, a product, an organization, or a service 3 m s at s p reading  marketing messages virally among potential customers. Whereas earlier studies focused on faceto-face communication, the Internet makes it now easier to connect to more peers and on a more frequent basis. Web 2.0 with its focus on social interaction brings about novel communication channels over which product information are transmitted. Mechanisms to forward digital products recommend them to friends or comment on them are becoming industry standard. Social influence should thus, be even more compelling and pervasive than in conventional, interpersonal interactions h ese  activities play an important role as both informational and normative social influenc a v e a n i m pact o n  peers buying decision d t h us o f ten lead to  conformity within a network [6   Exposure to favorable word of mouth was found to increase the probability of purchase of a food product, whereas exposure to unfavorable comments decreased the probability th e sa m e st u d y  word-of-mouth communication was not motivated by a desire to exert active influence on others but rather to exchange opinions about a product. Bone [8 examined the influence of word of mouth on shortterm and long-term product judgments in an experimental setting. She finds that this influence is more significant the source of the WOM communication is an expert. Furthermore, her results suggest that personal characteristics such as general susceptibility to interpersonal influence and product knowledge do not appear to significant factors of the effectiveness of WOM. In a study of the adoption of a new telecommunication serv h o w  that consumers linked to a prior customer adopt the service at a 3-5 times higher rate than customers from a reference group. Leskovec et al. [5 aly ze a  person-to-person recommendation network, and find that usually recommendations are not very effective at triggering purchases and do not spread very far p.1\. Most recommendation chains do not grow very large; rather they end with the first purchase of a product. Sometimes, however, a product will be broadcasted throughout a very active recommendation network \(p.3\The authors further find that an individual s likelihood of purchasing a product initially increases with the number of people recommending it to them, but a saturation point is quickly reached and additional recommendations do not result in a greater propensity to buy a product p.3 From a firm s perspective it is particularly interesting to know the determinants of customers  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


willingness to voluntarily spread information on its products. Possible explanations include individuals  eagerness to share enthusiasm and frustration with their peers and their increased joy of consuming the good based on the possibility to discuss, rave slaughter and define themselves by the things they lik a s al s o been arg u e d b y 11] an d [12 that network externalities provide a rationale for recommend products an o te that some consumers value the appearance of being on the cutting edge or in the know and therefore derive satisfaction from promoting new, exciting products Furthermore, there might be some kind of extrinsic motivation to stimulate adoption among peers created through a reward scheme of the producer Socio-demographic attributes, i.e. gender were also found to be an explanatory variable of active recommendation behavior  Phelps et al. [13 o u n d  females to be much more active in forwarding passalong e-mails. Likewise, Feick an o u n d  market mavens more likely to be female in a sample of U.S. consumers and Wiedmann a sample of German consumers, although the latter propose that this is about to change with increasingly blurred gender-models \(p.195  3. Third-party applications on Facebook  3.1. Background: social networks turn to programming platforms  Online social networks 1 provide users with a range of functions to manage their personal contacts and to organize their private and business life based on these contacts. Beyond mere messaging functionalities, users can create customized profile pages containing various types of content ranging from professional and personal information, pictures or even schedules of planned future activities There are two features common to most internetbased social networks which are important for the following study. First, many social networks contain automated news feeds informing users on updates on their friends profiles pages including their adoption of certain services offered on the platform. Second they contain mechanisms to pass on information \(e.g recommendations\y to their friends on the platform based on predefined recommend-this functionalities. These two features can be expected to accelerate the exchange of information among users   1  Prominent examples include MySpace, Facebook, Bebo, Orkut LinkedIn or Plaxo  of the platform and, therefore, to enforce viral tendencies Recently, large social networks opened their platform for third parties: Software developers have been allowed to write and to distribute applications that are based on the platforms APIs \(application programming interface\ and their technical infrastructure. As a consequence, third-party applications can easily be installed individually by users and integrate seamlessly into their user accounts on the platform. Once third party applications are installed they can access a user s address book. Based on this information many third party applications provide their users with easy ways to pass on information to a user s friends implemented as recommend this buttons. Most often, applications diffuse within social networks through user recommendations based on these mechanisms. In the following we describe how we aim to derive information on the mechanics of the nature of viral recommendations within this setting by analyzing the diffusion of novel third-party applications on Facebook s social network  3.2. Object of study: Facebook application platform  Our empirical analysis is based on a survey of users of Facebook, a large internet-based social network which is open for third-party developers Originally, when Facebook was launched in February 2004 \(www.facebook.com\t was exclusively for Harvard students. It soon opened for other colleges and high schools \(September 2005\d finally for anyone with an email address \(September 2006 May 2007, Facebook opened the technical infrastructure of its website so that external developers could write additional applications providing additional functionality to Facebook users Very soon after Facebook s initiative, competing major social network platforms announced to open their infrastructure \(Google followed in November 2007 and MySpace in March 2008 By January 2008, Facebook accounted for more than 50 million active users which can create profiles that include pictures, contact information and interests. Access to user profiles can be restricted to members of the same college, high school or work network and to friends that have been actively acknowledged. Facebook aims at mapping out real and pre-existing connections among people    For many younger users Facebook serves as the central portal to stay up-to-date on activities in their personal network \(via the News Feed a list of friends recent activities Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


Technically, developers of third party applications write web-based applications that are integrated in Facebook but are hosted on servers provided by the third party. In the simplest case, an application is a piece of web content \(e.g. a slide show of pictures but it can also be a sophisticated web application with a complex functionality \(e.g. an interactive game one can play with other users\. After an application is registered with Facebook, users can easily install and use it Three aspects make Facebook s platform attractive to developers. First, the degree of integration and access to Facebook s functionality is unprecedented. Facebook also offers convenient tools facilitating the development of applications. Second applications can integrate functionality that enables them to virally activate Facebook s existing user base as they access users address books. In fact, users can send invitations to their friends easily within applications providing different forms of recommend-this buttons. Facebook also shows a notification when friends install new applications in the news feed contained in users profiles. Third Facebook allows developers to monetize their applications without charging a commission. The description of different business models related to the provision of applications for Facebook is beyond the scope of this paper. However, we want to highlight that often applications are used as a mean to promote services offered by third-parties outside of Facebook For example, applications can generate revenues as Facebook allows the inclusion of advertisements \(e.g Google Ads\n the applications By February 2008, more than 15,000 applications were registered with Facebook. Facebook reports on its web page that more than 90% of Facebook s users have installed and used an application at least once and the most successful applications are being used by more than one million users daily Diffusion of some of the early applications has been very rapid with achieving more than 850,000 users within three days Ev en t h ough achiev i ng comparable growth rates has become harder with more applications competing for users attention, the number of new applications provided by third parties is steadily increasing Based on the characteristics of Facebook s platform described above, we believe that this setting provides an excellent environment for the study of the role individuals play for the diffusion of novel products. The setting allows an easy separation of passive \(observation of peers behavior either on their profile pages or via updates in the news-feed\d active forms \(receipt of recommendations or messages\ social influence as described in Section 1. Facebook includes a variety of channels which can be used to influence peers. Whereas some are still specific to Facebook, others \(e.g. the News Feed have been adopted by most other social networks This makes Facebook an innovative object to study yet generalizable for other existing and future networks and web applications  4. Methodology and sample   4.1. Methodology: case-study setup and triangulation  Our research follows a case study approach [18  at us es di ff eren t s o u r c e s of  inf o r m at ion t h at  contribute to a better understanding of viral marketing and social influence. The use of multiple data sources is a common approach in studies that focus on \(innovative\cial communities \(compare e.g T h e m a j o r adv a n t ag e of t h is approach is that it allows for the examination of a novel phenomenon from various angles, i.e. through triangulation [21, 22   In a first explorative step, we became accustomed to the environment of Facebook as a social network as well as with the community of application developers. Explorative interviews were conducted with both application users and developers. Apart from casual conversations in various occasions, three explicit, yet unstructured interviews were conducted with developers of popular applications. They provided insights on the design of applications particularly with the focus on features that facilitate viral growth. Moreover, we conducted five unstructured interviews with users of Facebook which provided insights regarding their general Facebook usage behavior. The more important objective of these user interviews was to get detailed information on the decision-making process preceding the installation of applications as well as the decision to actively recommend applications to friends In a second step, we conducted an online survey of Facebook users with regard to the adoption of third party applications and the recommendation of those applications. The questionnaire was based on the insights from the explorative interviews as well as on a thorough literature review. It was developed in December 2007 and pretested in various stages. The pretesting involved both paper-based questionnaires as well as an electronic version of the survey Our final questionnaire contained a total of 47 questions. Respondents were confronted with a choice of nine applications and were requested to pick one application they had heard of. In the course Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


of the survey all the questions would then relate to this chosen application. If the respondent had not heard of any of the given applications, she would be redirected to a base set of questions concerning her personality \(opinion leadership\er general usage of Facebook and the applications and sociodemographic attributes such as her age, education etc If one answer was chosen, the respondent was confronted with a variety of questions concerning e.g her perception of the application and how she first made contact with it. In subsequent steps respondents were also asked whether or not and why they had installed \(i.e. adopted\e application. Then they were asked whether they had exerted active influence on others to also install the application We chose the strategy of confronting users with a predefined set of successful applications in order to focus their attention to a specific problem they faced in the past. Compared to asking general questions with regard to the adoption process without linking them to a specific question, this approach should yield more reliable answers Nine applications were randomly selected out of the 50 most successful third party-applications \(in terms of installation on Facebook as of January 28th 2008\or this purpose We tried to address a broad variety of Facebook users with our online-survey. However, due to the strict non-spam policies of Facebook and the lack of an official cooperation with the company, it was not possible to pick a random sample of Facebook users and to ask them to fill in the survey. Therefore, we distributed invitations to the survey through various channels. Invitations were sent to the authors  personal contacts on Facebook who were again asked to further forward it. Additionally, a link to our survey was posted on more than 40 Facebook user groups. Furthermore, the URL was posted in a variety of online discussion boards, blogs, college websites, forums and mailing lists in various countries and institutions  4.2. Sample description  The online-survey was accessible for 14 days. In total, we received 475 completed responses from our survey. The questionnaire was filled in by respondents of 47 different nations. The US and Germany are by far the most represented nations with 139 \(29.3%\d 174 \(36.6%\pondents respectively \(see Table 1\ot surprisingly, college or university students account for about 75% of the respondents. The age of the respondents varies from 14 to 47; about half of the participants are in their early twenties with the average age being 23 years The percentages of male and female participant are almost balanced; however, it is remarkable, that the female fraction of the sample is on average two years younger and much more likely to be from the US With regard to their use of Facebook, 75% of the respondents reported to spend 5 hours or less on Facebook per week. On average, users have added slightly less than 7 applications to their profile \(see Table 1\. A minority 12% of the respondents indicated not having installed any third-party application at all, while nearly three quarters of the participants had installed between 1 and 10 applications. Less than 5% of the sample indicated numbers higher than 22 with 77 as the maximum  Table 1: Characteristics by gender   Female Male Total Share of nation in American 72.66 27.34 36.63 German 34.71 65.29 29.26 Other 51.88 48.13 34.11 Weekly time on Facebook in h \(mean 6.71 3.95 5.38 No of installed apps \(mean 7.39 6.02 6.74  As data on the size of the basic population was not available, we are unable to report a precise response rate. However, we conducted a nonresponse analysis comparing early to late respondents  h ic h  y i elded n o i n dica tion of a n onres pon s e  bias  5. Findings  As described above, the adoption of third-party applications on Facebook can occur in three different settings: A user might become aware of a specific application independently of other users on the platform and install it. Awareness and adoption might also be triggered by observing other users adoption decisions \(in particular via the news-feed or by browsing other people s profile pages\inally, users could also be made aware of applications by recommendations they receive from other users In the following we present results from our survey which shed some light on the relative importance of the three alternatives. Moreover, we further investigate whether there are differences in the probability that an application finally is adopted by a user depending on the way he was made aware of it. Finally, we also present evidence on characteristics and motivations of users who actively pass information on applications to their peers  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


5.1. How do users get aware of available applications  Participants in our survey were confronted with nine applications and were asked to choose one application they had heard of. They were then asked how they first took notice of the chosen application It turns out that in the realm of Facebook, viral channels \(observation of users behavior in the newsfeed or receiving recommendations\y an overwhelming role compared to self-discovery by e.g. browsing the directory of applications or noticing the application in advertisements. At an aggregated level, viral channels account for more than 90% of first contact with an application \(see Table 2  Table 2 How did you first take notice of the application    In a subsequent question, participants that had not indicated that they did not remember their first contact, were asked to provide further details about the way they became aware of the application. With regard to passive channels \(observation of others the data indicates that about 30% of our respondents discovered the application on other people s profile pages while only 10% mentioned the News Feed Within the category of active viral channels, the most frequent response was the receipt of an invitation to join the application. Only a third of that number was prompted by the application because someone had tried to interact with them via the application. Other active communication channels seem to have played a less important role, adding up to 3% of the answers \(see Table 3 Likewise, non-viral channels played almost no role, merely 4% of respondents indicated to have discovered the application via advertisement, the Facebook directory or through reports on another web page in the Internet \(e.g. blogs Taken together, it seems that viral channels are the most important source of information about new applications. Passive and active social influence are almost equally important in drawing users awareness to third-party applications. Observation of other people s profile pages turned out to be the most important passive viral channel while invitations sent by other users constitute the most important active channel This finding has interesting implications for firms that intend to boost the distribution of their applications by traditional online advertising channels such as linking in directories, search engine optimization or placement of text and banner ads. In social systems that provide users with inherent functionality to recommend applications to others this word-of-mouth appears to crowd out traditional channels by capturing the majority of users  attention. If this was found to hold in a variety of contexts, advertising spendings and investments need to be re-considered  Table 3 Please specify how you observed that someone else was using/ how you were told/ how you found out about the application   n Don t remember 7 1.7 Passive viral channels Profile page 127 31.4 News Feed 44 10.9 Active viral channels Request 149 36.9 Interaction attempt 49 12.1 Other Facebook channel 6 1.5 Other online channel 4 1.0 Offline channels 4 1.5 Non-viral channels Directory 7 1.7 Internet 3 1.7 Advertisement 2 0.5 Total 404 100  5.2. What drives adoption of applications  While respondents were first asked whether they had heard of a specific application, they were subsequently asked whether they had later added this application to their profile. In total, 199 respondents about 42%\ indicated to have done so for the application they chose in the survey In Table 4 we report the frequency of different reasons to install an application. Interestingly, active channels of social influence account for two thirds of installations, while the observation of others in contrast plays a minor role \(see Table 4\ly 26 of the respondents indicated that passive influence triggered their decision to add the application Information that the participants found via other channels accounted for 7.6% of the installation decisions  We conclude that active recommendations by other users are the most important determinant of the  n  I do not remember 22 5.1 Passive viral channels I observed that someone else was using it  197 45.8 Active viral channels Someone invited me or told me about it  197 45.8 Non-viral channels I found out about the application by myself  14 3.2 Total 430 100 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


diffusion of new applications. This is particularly interesting when compared to the results in Section 5.1. While active and passive channels are equally important in drawing users attention to applications active channels induce subsequent installations more frequently. Analogously to the above implication this means that firms need to primarily focus on peers than on traditional advertising and even passive observation when attention shall be converted to usage  Table 4 What was the main trigger to add the application    Freq Cum Invited / interaction 115 58.38 58.38 Observed 52 26.40 65.99 Self-discovered 15 7.61 92.39 Don t remember 15 7.61 100.00 Total 197 100 2 out 199 adopters did not answer the question  5.3. Which users actively recommend  Section 5.2 clearly demonstrated that user recommendations are particularly effective in fostering the diffusion of applications. In this section we further investigate the characteristics and motives of users who actively recommended applications Only users who had installed an application themselves were asked about their invitation behavior  5.3.1. Active recommendations About 56 % of the users who installed an application actively recommended it to at least one of their friends \(see Table 5\. On average, recommendations were sent to about 12.6 contacts. However, the distribution is skew with a median of 4.5. Participants on average estimated the success rates of their invitations to be slightly over 60  Table 5 Ever since you installed the application have you tried to influence any of your friends or acquaintances to also use the application    n Active influencer 109 55.90 No act.influencer 86 44.10 Total 195 100 4 out 199 adopters did not answer the question  Thus, viral growth through active channels does not seem to work via few extremely active users but rather through a broad basis of influencers the median indicates that 50% of the respondents sent not more than 4.5 recommendations. Those users issue targeted recommendations to a small number of their friends. The impact of this behavior is shown by very high reported conversion rates  5.3.2. Motivation Different items related to motivational aspects proposed by existing literature 9, 10, 11, 12 w e r e i n c l ud e d i n t h e q u e s t i o nna i r e a n d  presented to those respondents who had indicated to have sent recommendations to other people. Altruistic aspects received the highest agreement rates For example, the statement I thought other people would find the application useful or entertaining Therefore, I told my friends about it received strongest agreement, followed by the motive to share enthusiasm \(see Table 6\n the other hand, more selfish motivations that referred to increasing one s own benefit via invitations earned lesser agreement The particular low agreement to the item related to extrinsic rewards has im plications for practitioners who seek to incentivize product recommendations While adding features that bring about local network effects and further increase the benefit from getting friends to use the could possibly increase recommendations, designing explicit reward schemes might not warrant the effort as they are not a strong motivation to pronounce recommendations  Table 6 If you told anyone about the application please indicate what your motivation to do so was    N Mean* p50 I thought other people would find the application useful or entertaining  105 4.17 4 I just wanted to share enthusiasm or frustration that I experienced with the application  100 3.21 4 The application is more useful to me the more of my friends use the application  99 3.10 4 The application is more useful to me the more other people use the application  100 2.39 2 I could earn rewards within the application for recruiting friends  100 2.01 1 Answers on 5-point rating scale, min=1, max=5 for each item  Apparently, socially desirable answering needs to be considered at this point. However, one can derive the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


implication that interface design becomes more important than promotion. Thus, firms need to employ various mechanisms \(such as iterative prototyping, experimentation\ to integrate users early in the product development process  5.3.3. Communication channels The enquiry which communication channels are used to pass on recommendations shows that the built-in recommendation functions are much more frequently used than alternative communication channels \(such as other Facebook, other online or offline communication , see Table 7\hus, designing mechanisms for easy invitations and reduced friction of recommendations seems to pay off by encouraging diffusion  Table 7 What communication channels did you use to let your friends know about the application    n I used the built-in feature to invite friends 90 I told someone offline about the application 19 I used other Facebook communication to tell friends  14 I told people using some sort of other online  com  8 Total 131 Multiple answers were allowed to this question  5.3.4. Factors impeding recommendations When asked about their reasons not to recommend a specific application, respondents most frequently indicated that they did not feel comfortable advertising for a company or that they could not see any additional benefit for them if others joined \(see Table 8\ch fewer people indicated that their friends would use the application anyway or that they were not convinced of the quality of the application Hardly any respondents agreed that doubts about the effectiveness of a recommendation would keep them from exerting active social influence  An implication for firms which could be drawn from these results is that firms should try to build good reputation and trust with consumers. Moreover highlighting the network benefits from having one s friends join the application might foster recommenddations. Additional features that require interaction could artificially increase network externalities and encourage recommendation behavior  Table 8: "Please indicate your reasons to NOT invite people to the application or tell them to join   n I do not care who uses the application 51 I do not want to advertise for the application  51 Most of my friends use the application anyway  21 I don t know enough about the application or am not convinced of the quality of it  17 I don t think people would join if I told them so  9 Total 149 Multiple answers were allowed to this question  5.3.5. Characteristics of active recommenders Our data suggests that users that actively send recommendations differ from users not engaging in recommendations in various ways \(compare Table 9 First, differences in the perception of an innovation s characteristics were observed. The perceived ease of use and triability found significantly higher agreement among the influencers than the non-influencers. Influencing behavior seems to go along with tech-savvyness, which confirms the findings from literature on opinion leadership. Likewise, risk perception varied significantly regarding the fear of clutter on one s profile page and of negative privacy implications. There was no variance in the perception that the application would be a waste of time. Interestingly, the level of perceived personal benefit did vary significantly for adopters and non-adopters but not for influencers and noninfluencers in the sample  Table 9: Perception of the innovation by influencing behavior   Active influencer Non influencer  n mean n mea n pvalue I expected to benefit from using the application  106 3.06 85 2.99 0.34 Using the application seemed to be pretty easy and self-explanatory 109 4.31 86 4.08 0.03 It seemed easy to register and to try out the application 107 4.12 85 3.88 0.04 I was afraid that my profile would appear messy if I added the application 107 2.56 85 3.06 0.01 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


cont  n  mean  n  mean pvalue I was afraid, that adding the application would endanger my privacy 107 1.88 83 2.31 0.01 I was afraid that using the application might make me waste too much time 107 2.24 86 2.37 0.23 One-sided p-values for significantly smaller or larger means respectively  Second, influencers and non-influencers differed systematically with regard to certain socio-demographic attributes. As table 10 shows, females in the sample were much more likely to be active influencers than men  Table 10: Active influencers by gender   Active influencer No active influencer Total Female 80 40 120 Male 27 46 73 Total 107 86 Pearson chi2\(1\ =  16.1852 ; p-value = 0.000  7. Conclusion  This paper is the first to present findings on person-to-person communication and influence on Facebook. It brings forward evidence that informs research on electronic marketing in general and viral marketing in particular User behavior does have a strong influence on awareness and adoption decisions of others According to our data, adoption of new products Facebook applications\s particularly driven by active peer recommendations. Firms should evaluate which recommendations channels impose minimize friction on users and ideally integrate recommendation functionality into applications and services Extrinsic determinants do not seem to be important motivational drivers for users to recommend a service. Rather, firms should point out to users how their peers benefit from the application Our study examines a rather novel phenomenon and exhibits some limitations that provide room for further research. One limitation concerns the static character of the analysis. As the applications at hand were already well established at the point of time when the survey was conducted, the implications for marketers might be different when they need to disseminate information about a new application Further research is needed to enquire how the role of viral versus non-viral channels and within the first category, the role of active versus passive social influence changes over the life cycle of a product With respect to survey design and distribution, we point out that the selection of targeted respondents was not totally random. This leads to a sample which reflects the distribution channels of the survey and the personal network of the authors \(e.g overrepresentation of German respondents\. Social desirability presents a further challenge to some answers. As Pronin o te, s o cial inf l u e n c e  might not be perceived correctly because of selfenhancement motives and a lacking cognitive awareness of conforming behavior  8. References  1   E. Rog e rs 1983 i f f u s i on of innov a tio ns Fre e P r e s s   New York, 1983  2   M. S ubra m a n i, a n d B. Ra ja g opa la n  Knowledgesharing and influence in online social networks via viral marketing Communications of the ACM, 2003 Vol. 46\(12\, pp. 300 307  3  L   Harriso n W a l k er The Measurement of Word-ofMouth Communication and an Investigation of Service Quality and Customer Commitment as Potential Antecedents Journal of Service Research, 2001, Vol 4\(1\, pp. 60 75   H Kel m an  Processes of Opinion Change, The Public Opinion Quarterly 1961, Vol. 25\(1\ pp. 57 78  5 J  L e s k ov ec L   A d am ic  a nd B  H u be r m a n  The Dynamics of Viral Marketing ACM Transactions on the Web \(TWEB\, 2007, Vol. 1\(1\, pp. 1-39  6 L   R ook  An Economic Psychological Approach to Herd Behavior Journal of Economic Issues, 2006 Vol. 40, No. 1, pp. 75-95  7 J  A r ndt Role of Product-Related Conversations in the Diffusion of a New Product Journal of Marketing Research,  1967, Vol. 4\(3\, pp. 291 295  8 P. B one  Word-of-Mouth Effects on Short-Term and Long-Term Product Judgments Journal of Business Research 1995, Vol. 32\(3\, pp. 213 223  9 S. Hill, F   P r ov ost, a n d C V o l i nsk y  Network-Based Marketing: Identifying Likely Adopters Via Consumer Networks Statistical Science, 2006, Vol. 22\(2\pp 256 276  1  M  Kret sch m er G  Kl i m i s  an d C Cho i   Increasing Returns and Social Contagion in Cultural Industries  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


British Journal of Management, 1999, Vol 10\(1\pp 61-72  11 J  H  B l oc k  a nd J  H e nk e l  Peer Influence in Network Markets: A Theoretical Analysis Working Paper Technische Universität München, TUM Business School, 01/2007  12 J.H. Bloc k  a nd P  K  lling e r \(20 06 Peer Influence in Network Markets: An Empirical Investigation  Working Paper, Technische Universität München TUM Business School, 08/2006  13 J   P h e l ps R. L e w i s  L   Mobi lio D   P e rry a nd N   Raman Viral Marketing or Electronic Word-of-Mouth Advertising: Examining Consumer Responses and Motivations to Pass Along Email Journal of Advertising Research, 2005, Vol. 44\(4\pp.  333 348  1 L F e i c k an d L  P r i ce  The Market Maven: A Diffuser of Marketplace Information Journal of Marketing, 1987, Vol 51\(1\pp. 83 97  15 K  W i e d m a nn, G  W a ls h a nd V. M itc he ll The Mannmaven: an Agent for Diffusing Market Information Journal of Marketing Communications 2001, Vol. 7\(4\, pp. 195 212  1  Face value | Book value on Mark Zuckerberg The Economist, July 21st, 2007, p. 64    17 C. M c Carth y   Facebook's app feeding frenzy  CNET News.com  June 15, 2007, available at http://news.cnet.com/2100-1038_3-6191152.html retrieved June 15, 2008  18 K  M  Eis e nha r d t Building Theories from Case Study Research The Academy of Management Review 1989, Vol. 14\(4\ pp. 532-550  1 R K Yi n  Case S t ud y Rese a r ch  Desi gn an d M e t h o d s   SAGE Publications, London, 1993  20 L  B  J e ppe s e n a nd L  Fr e d e r ik s e n Why Do Users Contribute to Firm-Hosted User Communities? The Case of Computer-Controlled Music Instruments  Organization Science, 2006, Vol. 17\(1\ 45-63  2 N K Den z i n  T h e Research A c t: a T h eo retical  Introduction to Sociological Methods, McGraw-Hill New York, 1978  22 R.D  W i m m e r a nd J  R. D o m i nic k  A n Introduc tio n to  Mass Media Research, Wadsworth Publishing Company, California, 1994  23 S  R  B a r l e y a nd G  K unda  Bringing Work Back In  Organization Science, 2001, Vol. 12\(1\ 76-95  24 J  S. A r m s trong a nd T  S. O v e r ton Estimating nonresponse bias in mail surveys Journal of Marketing Research, 1977, Vol. 14, pp. 396 402  25  E P r on in J  Be rg e r a nd S. M o lo uk i Alone in a Crowd of Sheep: Asymmetric Perceptions of Conformity and Their Roots in an Introspection Illusion Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 2007, Vol. 92\(4\ pp. 585 95   7. Appendix  These are short-descriptions of the nine applications the users could choose from in the survey Super Wall 23 m installs / 1.6 m active users rank 2\mplifies the ordinary Facebook Wall. Super Wall allows to also post pictures and videos and to quickly forward messages on the wall to one s friends SuperPoke 15.3 m installs / 460 k active users rank 7\ widens the interaction possiblities on Facebook. Users can kiss, hug or high five another and keep in touch by occasionally throwing a sheep at each other Growing gifts 6.7 m installs / 134 k active users rank 26\ allows users to send flower pots to their friends. They can then watch a flower grow out of it in the course of some days BumperSticker 7.2 m installs / 796 k active users / rank 19\ws the user to choose from a wide range of bumper stickers which can then be displayed on one s profile Are YOU interested 7.6 m installs / 533 k active users / rank 16\d HOT or NOT 4.2 m installs / 208 k active users / Rank 44\very similar applications. Once a user has installed the application he or she can rate other users of the application according to their hotness or has to make a statement about whether or not he or she is interested in the person Causes 9.2 m installs / 92 k active users / rank 12\ users start and join causes they care about The application displays the causes one has joined in the profile box, ranging from supporting presidential candidates to saving Darfur or raising awareness of breast cancer Entourage 5.1 m installs / 154 k active users rank 34\ts pictures of one s chosen friends onto the user s profile and also provides a handy overview of the status updates of these friends Honesty Box 4.5 m installs / 181 k active users rank 40\plays a box on the user s profile where other people can enter adjectives that describe the user anonymously  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


data and process standards positively affects process costs, has been corroborated. The path coefficient for this relationship is highly significant \(p &lt;= 0.001  H3: The forecasted positive impact of a combined standard force on the quality determinant of the recruiting process has been corroborated for this sample with p &lt;= 0.001  5.1 Implications for theory  In this paper we developed a theoretical research model around the combined effect of process and data standards on business process performance in staff recruitment. Such a model has not yet been offered in human resources information systems \(HRIS research In addition, this paper provides empirical substantiation and validation of the developed hypothesis using data from a survey sent to Fortune-1,000 companies in Germany. The results show that a sensible combination of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive impact on the outcomes of the entire recruiting process. These outcomes are measured as time-to-hire costs-per-hire as well as the process quality for applicants \(customer satisfaction quality of hired candidates With these two main contributions, the paper fills a gap in existing literature and can serve as starting point for promising future research Our results were not fully able to answer how exactly both standard types should be combined to provide the positive impact. As indicated in section 2.3 we assume that neither process nor data standards are an end in themselves. Quite a high number of cases show that the introduction of process standards is more successful if accompanied by a simultaneous introduction of data standards. Some cases show that data standards tend to fail if not embedded in a process standardization context. We leave a further discussion of the operative interplay of process and data standards for further research \(compare section 5.4 In their case study research about the use of process standards in staff recruitment, von Stetten et al. [31 showed that the observed company implemented a uniform data standard and then process standards on how to recruit an employee. In this case the company was able to cut their costs by a third and reduced their timeto-hire by around 20 days from 90 to 70  5.2 Managerial implications  The most important finding of this research is that the combined implementation of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive and direct impact on the overall performance of the recruiting process \(measured in time-to-hire, costs-per-hire and the process quality for applicant and company These empirical findings confirm the results of case study research by von Stetten et al. [31] who examined the positive influence of standardization in staff recruitment. Managers in HR and IT could benefit from this approach and enhance their efforts to standardize the corporate recruitment process. An important precondition seems to be a prior implementation of a uniform data standard before starting to standardize the process von Stetten et al. [31]. Examples of process standards could be related to the specific recruiter tasks, the channels they use to find and attract a specific applicant as well as the ways they communicate with their candidates. Several companies use standard chanProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 nels to attract candidates, such as their corporate website or an Internet job portal such as Monster.com [18 How candidates apply and companies communicate with their candidates is also becoming increasingly standardized in current staff recruitment as the candidates frequently use standardized web forms to apply and the companies use email for communication [19 Finally a rising degree of standardization in staff recruitment will lead to a new definition of recruiters tasks as one recruiter will not be responsible for performing the entire process from candidate attraction to final selection  Table 7: Overview of managerial implications Implications Combined implementation of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive and direct impact on the overall performance of the recruiting process Authors,[31 A uniform data standard \(for applicant relevant information standardization \([31 Standardized channels to first attract applicants and then communicate with them ? as a means of process standardization ? increase the overall performance of the recruiting process \(Authors,[18],[19 Increasing specialization and modularization of a single recruiter's activities ? as a means of process standardization ? increase the overall performance of the recruiting process \(Authors  5.3 Limitations  As with any work in a new field of research, relevant literature to build on is almost nonexistent. Following Wuellenweber et al. [37] "in standardization research determining the value of a standard has remained an open issue for decades. Looking at process standards, things seem to be even worse." Unfortunately the operationalization of "process standard" used in this paper could thus not build too much on earlier work in standardization research. As a result we focused the operationalization of prior findings of HR research As with any empirical research paper, this work has some associated limitations. We have only discussed one process to examine the combined impact of process and data standards, so the significant results might show a single example for the recruitment process. We assume there might be differences for different processes. Future research should discuss this aspect in more detail Furthermore, our survey was limited to major enterprises in Germany. Therefore our results may not be directly transferred to any other country or region In addition, our results could be affected by common method variance because we collected the data from participants at the same time using the same questionnaire [24  5.4 Further research  In this paper, we have shown that combined process and data standards have a positive impact on business process performance in terms of the individual measuring dimensions of business process time, cost and quality for our overall data sample of major German enterprises. We assume that interesting future results might be provided by looking at specific industry \(sub tors, branches or companies of different sizes \(e.g 


tors, branches or companies of different sizes \(e.g large-scale vs. SME Building on the proposal of the "business process standardization" construct by Muenstermann and Weitzel [22], future research should try to further improve the operationalization of "process standards In this paper we measured business process performance using the three business process measurement dimensions of business process time, cost and quality It might be interesting to complement these by adding softer" dimensions, such as business process flexibility, agility or robustness This paper offers an initial understanding of the interplay between process and data standards. Moreover in our further research, we will investigate the individual and separate influence of process and data standards on process performance. Is the influence of process standardization higher than that of data standardization? Do they conflict with each other In addition we will complete two more case studies and send out a new questionnaire to Germany?s Fortune 1,000 companies that will then allow us to analyze the influence of both process and data standardization on each of the business process performance measurement dimensions \(time, cost and quality In addition, we also aim to investigate whether most firms started their standardization effort \(process and data ture \(or even thereafter pendently of major IT changes Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 6. References  1] Bagozzi, R. P. and Yi, Y. \(1988 structural equation models. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 16\(1 2] Breaugh, J. A. and Starke, M. \(2000 ployee recruitment: So many studies, so many remaining questions. Journal of Management, 26\(3 3] Brislin, R. W. \(1970 research. Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, 1\(3 216 4] Chin, W. W. \(1998 structural equation modeling. In Marcoulides, G. A., editor Modern Methods for Business Research, pages 295?336 Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah, NJ, USA 5] Chin, W. W. \(2000 tial Least Squares &amp; PLS-Graph. Home Page. [On-line Available at: http://disc-nt.cba.uh.edu/chin/plsfaq.htm 6] Chin, W. W. and Todd, P. A. \(1995 ness, and ease of use of structural equation modeling in MIS research: a note of caution. MIS Quarterly, 19\(2 7] Davenport, T. H. and Short, J. E. \(1990 trial engineering: information technology and business process redesign. Sloan Management Review, 31\(4 8] de Vries, H. \(2006 zation. International Journal of IT Standards and Standardization Research, 4\(1 9] Eckhardt, A., Laumer, S., Koenig, W., and Weitzel, T 2008 tration, esp. Information Management, University of Frankfurt 10] Faerber, F., Keim, T., and Weitzel, T. \(2003 mated recommendation approach to personnel selection. In Proceedings of the 2003 Americas Conference on Information Systems, Tampa 11] Ferstl, O. K. and Sinz, E. J. \(1997 ness systems using the semantic object model \(SOM thodological framework, chapter Handbook on architectures of information systems. International handbook on information systems. Springer 


tion systems. Springer 12] Fomin, V. and Lyytinen, K. \(2000 cake before cutting it into pieces: Alice in Wonderland or radio engineers' gang in the Nordic countries? IGI Publishing, Hershey, PA, USA 13] Fornell, C. and Larcker, D. F. \(1981 tural equation models with unobservable variables and measurement errors. Journal of Marketing Research, 18\(1 50 14] Frank, F. D., Finnegan, R. P., and Taylor, C. R. \(2004 The race for talent: retaining and engaging workers in the 21st century. Human Resource Planning, 27\(3 15] Gefen, D., Straub, D. W., and Boudreau, M.-C. \(2000 Structural equation modeling and regression: Guidelines for research practice. Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 4\(7 16] Herwig, V. \(2006 an service-oriented architecture. In Proc. IEEE Services Computing Workshops SCW '06, pages 156?164 17] ISO, T. \(1996 related activities ? General vocabulary". International Organisation for Standardization / International Electrotechnical Commission, Geneva, 7th edition 18] Keim, T. and Weitzel, T. \(2006 professionals: An empirical analysis of employer and job seeker behavior on the IT labor market. Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 19] Laumer, S., Eckhardt, A., and Trunk, N. \(2008 your parents say? ? analyzing it adoption influencing factors for full and under age applicants. forthcoming in Information Systems Frontiers 20] Luftman, J., Kempaiah, R., and Nash, E. \(2006 issues for it executives 2005. MIS Quarterly Executive 5\(2 21] Mooney, J. G., Gurbaxani, V., and Kraemer, K. L 1996 ness value of information technology. SIGMIS Database 27\(2 22] Muenstermann, B. and Weitzel, T. \(2008 process standards? Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Information Resources Management \(ConfIRM 2008 23] National Institute of Standards and Technology \(1996 Electronic data interchange \(EDI Information Processing Standards Publications 24] Podsakoff, P. M., MacKenzie, S. B., Lee, J. Y., and Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003 research: A critical review of the literature and recommended remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, 88:879?903 25] Porter, M. E. \(1985 niques for analyzing industries and competitors. Free Press New York 26] Ramakumar, A. and Cooper, B. \(2004 dization proves profitable. Quality, 43\(2 27] Riemenschneider, C. K., Moore, J. E., and Armstrong D. \(2008 Renewed Demand for IT Workers, European Journal of Information Systems \(EJIS 28] Ross, J. W. \(2003 competency: learning in stages. MIS Quarterly Executive 2\(1 29] Rossi, B., Russo, B., and Succi, G. \(2008 about the diffusion of data standards inside European public organizations. 3rd International Conference on Information Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 and Communication Technologies: From Theory to Applications, 2008. ICTTA 2008, 1?6 30] S  nchez-Rodr  guez, C., Hemsworth, D., Mart  nezLorente, n. R., and Clavel, J. G. \(2006 on the impact of standardization of materials and purchasing procedures on purchasing and business performance. Supply 


procedures on purchasing and business performance. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 11\(1 31] Stetten, A. v., Muenstermann, B., Eckhardt, A., and Laumer, S. \(2008 value of business process standardization - a case study approach. Proceedings of the 14th Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2008 32] Straub, D., Gefen, D., and Boudreau, M.-C. \(2004 ISWorld quantitative, positivist research methods website On-line]. Available at: http://dstraub.cis.gsu.edu:88/quant 33] Ungan, M. C. \(2006 documentation. Business Process Management Journal 12\(2 34] Venkatesh, V. \(2006 on future directions for research on individual-level technology adoption with a focus on decision making. Decision Sciences, 37\(22 35] Vinzi, V. E., Lauro, C., and Tenenhaus, M. \(2003 Path Modelling. DMS 36] Wigand, R. T., Steinfield, C. W., and Markus, M. L 2005 try structure outcomes: The case of the U.S. home mortgage industry. Journal of Management Information Systems 22\(2 37] Wuellenweber, K., Beimborn, D., Weitzel, T., and Koenig, W. \(2008 business process outsourcing success. Information Systems Frontiers, 10\(2  7. Appendix  Table 8: Cross loadings Proc. Cost Data Stand Proc Stand Proc Qual Stand Inter Proc Time Process Standards \(1 Process Standards \(2 Process Standards \(3 Process Standards \(4 Process Standards \(5 Process Standards \(6 Data Standards \(1 Data Standards \(2 Data Standards \(3 Data Standards \(4 Data Standards \(5 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(1 Combined P&amp;D 0.4504 0.9762 0.6555 0.4436 0.8575 0.5252 Standards \(2 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(3 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(4 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(5 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(6 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(7 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(8 Combined P&amp;D 


Standards \(9 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(10 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(11 Business Process Time \(1 Business Process Time \(2 Business Process Time \(3 Business Process Cost 1 Business Process Cost 2 Business Process Cost 3 Business Process Cost 4 Business Process Quality \(1 Business Process Quality \(2 Business Process Quality \(3  Table 9: Indicators Indicator Description Process-Time-1 We have reduced the time between the identification of a vacancy and the posting of the job ad Process-Time-2 We have reduced the time between the incoming applications and the transmitted notice of arrival for the respective applicant Process-Time-3 We have reduced the time between the identification of a vacancy and its fill Process-Cost-1 We were able to reduce the costs for candidate attraction Process-Cost-2 We were able to reduce the costs for the response management with the recruiting process Process-Cost-3 We were able to reduce the costs for the internal applicant tracking Process-Cost-4 We were able to reduce the costs per tracked application Process-Quality-1 We were able to enhance the overall applicant quality Process-Quality-2 We were able to enhance the quality of applicants' data Process-Quality-3 We were able to enhance the proportion of top candidates Process-Quality-4 Our applicants are very satisfied with our offer of information Process-Stand.-1 We have a well-regulated process cycle for applicant tracking in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-2 We have established an efficient organized process in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-3 We have established highly standardized procedures in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-4 We have documented our actions to a great extent Process-Stand.-5 We have established a fixed procedure for the collaboration between HR and the operating departments Process-Stand.-5 We already work with process standards in our staff recruitment Data-Stand-1 We already use a data standard in our staff recruitment Data-Stand-2 I expect that we will use a data standard in staff recruitment in the future as well Data-Stand-3 We plan to use a data standard in staff recruitment in the future as well Data-Stand-4 A uniform data standard is more important in our company as process standards Data-Stand-5 We use the same data standard as our competitors  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


especially of computer networks, is often characterized by the multi-state performance degradations before reaching the complete failure. This multi-state nature of reliability has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and the most significant advances have been in the field of multistate reliability modeling \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003                                                 4. STRATEGIC MODELING AND DYNAMIC   Box 3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis  Dependence Mechanisms  Dependence is often the central focus of multivariate survival analysis, and together with censoring, they complicate survival analysis most significantly. Hougaard \(2000 three mechanisms of dependence: \(i ii iii Common events are equivalent to common mode failures in reliability analysis, for example, failure events due to accidents or natural disasters. The common risks mechanism describes the scenario that the individuals are dependent due to some common unobserved risks such as common genes in siblings or a bug in the operating system that may affect all software running on 


operating system that may affect all software running on it. The third mechanism, event-related mechanism refers to the phenomena that the actual event itself changes the risk, such as virus infection of a computer node Shared Frailty Modeling  Shared frailty theory occupies the central focus of multivariate survival analysis. The dominance is not accidental because frailty captures crucial but often directly unobservable \(latent random variables, which are attributable for dependence and variations. To some extent, dependence, variation randomness, and frailty all address some facets of multivariate failure events. The frailty theory provides a unique set of approaches to address the theoretical and practical issues related to those four concepts.  Similar to the fact that censoring is the trademark feature of survival analysis \(both univariate and multivariate frailty theory is the trademark of multivariate survival analysis. These two trademark properties, censoringhandling and frailty modeling, have made multivariate survival analysis a unique and indispensable mathematical tool for biomedical and public health research Multi-State Modeling  Multi-state has been developed concurrently in several fields in the last decade, including survival analysis \(Hougaard 2000 reliability \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003 Commenges 1999 Huzurbazar 2006 multi-state modeling has been adopted to solve the domain specific problems, and the flow graph modeling offers a flexible and powerful approach to analyze multi-state models in general. Multi-State model is often formulated as Markov Process models. The transition probabilities in multi-states modeling are well defined by survivor functions \(Hougaard 2000 multi-state model is to estimate the state transition probabilities from hazards functions. multivariate system. According to Lisnianski and Levitin's \(2003 any systems that can have a finite number of performance rates are multi-state systems. Furthermore a system may consists of components which themselves could be multi-state subsystems 10 4. STRATEGIC LEVEL MODELING AND DYNAMIC HYBRID FAULT MODELS  Hybrid fault models are derived from agreement algorithms Lynch 1997 redundancy management in fault tolerance.  Therefore, the choice of hybrid fault models directly affects reliability analysis and fault tolerance. Despite the close ties between reliability and fault tolerance fields, Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e Ma 2008a with regard to the quantitative relationship between reliability analysis and hybrid fault models. To address the unrealistic assumption, they proposed a new concept  dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF mathematical tools \(survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling we first briefly describe the issues involved and summarize some of their key findings in Box 4.1  Agreement algorithms started out with the introduction of the Byzantine general problem by Pease et al. \(1980 Lamport \(1982 system are abstracted as generals of an army.  Loyal generals \(non-faulty components algorithm e.g., to attack or retreat while traitors \(or bad components others by sending conflicting messages. Because the focus of agreement algorithms is to reach agreement in the presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the 


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


