html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Proceedings  of  the Fourth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Guangzhou, 18-21  August 2005 A STUDY ON CASE-BASED REASONING USING GENERALIZED ASSOCIATION RULES MINING SUNGNAM KIM 1,2, PI-LIAN HE 1 1 School of Electronic &amp; Information Engineering , Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, China 2 Department of Computing , Kim Chack University , Pyongyang, DPRK E-MAIL: jinjingmin@eyou.com, plhe@tju.edu.cn Abstract Case-Based Reasoning \(CBR problem similar with it using the past solving problem experience. A case can be seen as a complex object that contains at least a problem description and a solution \(i.e., a conditionality and a consequence and its consequence a strong association is existed. The focus of this paper is to describe a method discovering usable rules among case history by using the generalized association rule algorithm. Emphasis placed on approaching association rule mining for discovering rules existing in case history  Rule-Based Reasoning \(RBR know-how of the expert into rule format in rule base, and is a system finding solution for the occurred problems by using this rule base. The advantage of this RBR can explicate knowledge with a type of IF-THEN and also explain process in reasoning result. But RBR has such disadvantage: it hardly to acquire domain knowledge either when the expert knowledge can  t be explicated or the theory and method of that domain is not yet established. To solve this problem, the CBR system was developed, CBR can be regarded both as a cognitively sound modeling approach for explaining human problem solving in domains where experience plays an important role [8] and as a software engineering approach for how to model and implement decision support systems that are able to use past experiences for suggesting solutions or making predictions [6]. In CBR, as new case is stored in knowledge base and can reuse it, therefore some knowledge acquisition bottleneck can be settled. But this method has some problem, for example, providing enough cases leading the extension of searching time, and may lead to a mistaken result, etc. To settle this problem, previous studies on approaching CBR and data mining \(DM clustering method only [4]. In this paper, we described case history as hierarchical tree structure, consider discovering method association between attributes of case history and between cases, and proposed algorithm for applying to CBR Keywords Case-Based Reasoning; Association rule; Data Mining Expert System 1. Introduction 2. Relative studies 2.1.  Generalization of association rules The traditional association rules mining problem can be described as follows. Given a database of transactions, a minimal confidence threshold and a minimal support threshold, find all association rules whose confidence and support are above the corresponding thresholds. In previous researches [3], this traditional association rule mining has been generalized to data with items arranged to hierarchies or taxonomies. Concept hierarchies exist often for the items for instance, in the supermarket environment we know that Cheng Do is a beer brand, that WaHaHa is a mineral water brand, that beer is a beverage, that mineral water is a beverage, and so on. The idea is now to search for rules on several levels in the hierarchy, such as beer =&gt; mineral water and Cheng Do =&gt; WaHaHa. These rules may be interesting if its confidence satisfy from the condition. And mining association rules at several concept levels may lead to the discovery of more specific and concrete knowledge 


to the discovery of more specific and concrete knowledge from data than mining association rules find rules at single concept level. For the mining of association rules from case set, we used case history instead of transaction data therewith can be found cooccur symptoms for a disease 2.2.  Case-Based Reasoning Case-Based Reasoning \(CBR building software systems that enable their users to reuse the experiences from similar situations that occurred in the 0-7803-9091-1/05/$20.00  2005 IEEE 1982 Proceedings of  the Fourth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics  Guangzhou, 18-21 August 2005 past and have been documented in the form of cases [13]. A case can be seen as a complex object that contains at least a problem description and a solution. The reasoning step in CBR systems is based on the hypothesis that similar problems have similar solutions or  in other words - that the solution of a similar problem is a good starting point for the selection/construction of a solution for the problem at hand [8]. CBR systems are steadily gaining ground because they allow a quicker and cheaper system development and case knowledge maintenance than traditional expert systems [7 CBR stores old cases in system, searches old case similar with inputted new case, analyses difference between old and new problem, and then settles new problem by properly correcting the old solving method [Figure 1 Each step is z Searching step, search case and/or set of attributes the most similar with new case z Reusing step, use searched information and knowledge z Correcting step, correct relevant at proposed solution Holding step, store confirmed case to front new case  3.   Using association rule mining to CBR 3.1.  Hierarchical tree structure of case history To apply generalized association rules in case history we make hierarchical tree structure as follows. First, case data is classified with category and attributes, and take an index. Then, we place category in upper level and attributes in lower level A hierarchical tree structure means diverse symptoms of a disease Suppose that a case history of diabetes consist of two relations:\(1 exp_item relation \(Table l exp_ID, category, state, onset age, polyuria, polyphagia and \(2 Table 2 for each transaction, the case_transaction number and the set of items experimented     Diabetes category contents Fasting Blood level \(FBG Postprandial Blood level \(P2hBG specific gravity, Body Mass Index \(BMI Antibody \(ICA Since there are only three interested attributes category, state, and onset age, the exp_item description relation is generalized into a generalized exp_item description table, as shown in Table 3, in which each tuple represents a generalized item which is the merge of a group of tuples which share the same values in the interested attributes    For example, the tuples with the same category 


For example, the tuples with the same category content and brand in Table 1 are merged into one, with their exp_ID replaced by a exp_ID set. Each group is then   treated as an atomic item in the generation of the lowest level association rules. For example, the association rule 1983 Proceedings of  the Fourth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics  Guangzhou, 18-21 August 2005 generated regarding to blood level will be only in relevance to \(at the low concept levels such as 30 years and content \(such as, 7.5mol/l etc  The hierarchical information is provided implicitly in Table 3. Let category \(such as  blood level   first-level concept, content \(such as  7.5mol/l   second level one, and onset age \(such as  30 years   the third level one. The table implies a concept tree hierarchical tree structure   Table 4:Encoded case history table \(T [1     Hence, the hierarchy information for each grouped item of Figure.2 is encoded as a sequence of digits in Table.4 \(T [1  7.0 mol/l 20years blood level  is encoded as  112  in which the first digit  l   represents  blood level  at level-l, the second  1  for  7.0 mol \(blood level  at level-2, and the third  2  for the onset age  20years  at level-3. Similar to [2], repeated items \(i.e items with the same encoding as one item in one transaction 3.2.  A method for mining association rules from case history An abstract procedure simulating the diabetes data is as follows The derivation of the large item sets at level-1 proceeds as follows. Let the minimum support be 4 transactions \(i.e., minsup[1] = 4 Notice since the total number of transactions is fixed, the support is expressed in an absolute value rather than a relative percentage for simplicity  derived by scanning T[1], registering support of each generalized item, such as 1  4**, if a transaction contains such an item \(i.e., the item in the transaction belongs to the generalized item 1  4**, respectively and filtering out those whose accumulated support count is lower than the minimum support. C [1, 1] is then used to filter out \(1 and \(2  items. This results in a filtered transaction table T[2] of Figure 3. Moreover, since there are only two entries in C[1,1], the level-l large-2 itemset table C[1,2] may contain only 1 candidate item {l**,2**}, which is supported by 4 transactions in T[2   Case_ID Items Case1 Case2 Case3 Case4 Case5 Case6 Case7 111,121,211,221 111.211.222.323 


111.211.222.323 112,122,221,411 111,121 111,122,211,221,412 211,323,524 323,411,524,713 Figure 3.  Large item sets at level-1and filtered case table  According to the definition of several level association rules, only the descendants of the large items at level-l \(i.e in C[1,1 1-itemsets. Let minsup[2] = 3. The level-2 large 1-itemsets C [2,1] can be derived from the filtered transaction table T[2] by accumulating the support count and removing those whose support is smaller than the minimum support, which results in C[2,1] of Figure 4   Figure 4. Large item sets at levels 2 and 3  1984 Proceedings of  the Fourth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics  Guangzhou, 18-21 August 2005 Similarly, the large 2-itemset table C[2,2] is formed by the combinations of the entries in C[2,1], together with the support derived from T[2], filtered using the corresponding threshold. The large 3-itemset table C[2,3] is formed by the combinations of the entries in C[2,2] \(which has only one possibility {11*, 12*, 22 C[3,1] and C[3,2] at level-3 are computed in a similar process, with the results shown in Figure 4. The computation terminates since there is no deeper level requested in the diagnosis. Note that the derivation also terminates when an empty large 1-itemset table is generated at any level. Therefore, find the association between frequency of symptom and diagnosis \(when was obtained this result, must add diagnosis in the lowest level case doctor  s experience differ, may lead to the discovery of more specific and concrete knowledge by finding generalized experiences  4. CBR algorithm using generalized association rule mining Algorithm CBR_DM  1. User is first performed on a given case history to derive a generalized item table in which each tuple contains a set of item identifiers \(such as exp_ID is encoded with concept hierarchy information 2. The transaction table \(Table 3 Table 4 with each item in the item sets replaced by its corresponding encoded hierarchy information 3. Discover several level large item sets for the case history Input the minimum support threshold \(minsup[l each concept level 1 Starting at level 1, derive for each level 1, the large k-items sets, C[l, k], for each k, and the large item set CC[l] \(for all k  s in the syntax similar to C and Pascal, which should be self-explanatory  1 l := 1; C[l, 1]  and l &lt; max_level; l 2 3  T[1], l 4  T[1], C[1,1 5 6  T[2],l 7 k := 2; C[l, k-1] ; k 8 C[l,k-1 9  10 C ,t 11 12 


13   14 15   16  4. After finding the large itemset, the set of association rules for each level l can be derived from the large itemsets CC[l] based on the minimum confidence at this level, minconf[l]. This is performed as follows [2 For every large itemset r, if a is a nonempty subset of r the rule  a  r - a  is inserted into rule-set[l] if support\(r a   the minimum confidence at level l   5. Output several level large itemsets and association rules 6.  Store usable rules in case base 5.  Experiments By application of the proposed algorithm we can discover the following rules about diabetes related case history. Let the minimum support at top most concept level be 5% and the minimum confidence be 50%. One may find the following: a set of single large items  FBG\(35 P2hBG\(25 20 10  a set of pair-wised large items \(each called a large 2-itemset  FBG, BMI \(23 ICA, P2hBG \(15 BMI FBG\(72   as  BMI  FBG \(76 86   At the second level, let the minimum support at this level be 2% and the minimum confidencebe40%. One may find the following large l-item sets  30\(10 15 10  10 5 5  and the following large2-itemsets  7.8,42\(4 7.2,  38\(2.1  and the strong association rules  blood level\(10.5 age\(28      blood level\(FBG 42  etc. The process repeats at even lower concept levels until no large patterns can be found    This experiment shows that discovering association between symptoms and diagnosis from diabetes case history This should be extended for other diseases because concept hierarchies may not exist for numerical valued attributes but can be automatically generated according to data distribution statistics. For example, a hierarchy for the symptom range of disease items can be generated based on the distribution of symptom degree.   Moreover, a given concept hierarchy for numerical or non-numerical data can be dynamically adjusted based on data distribution. For example, if there are many distinct disease names in the 1985 Proceedings of  the Fourth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics  Guangzhou, 18-21 August 2005 attribute  symptom  diseases can be grouped into class diseases, such as tuberculosis, hepatitis, heart disease, etc 6.  Conclusions We have approached the study of mining association rules from multiple concept levels to case history of hierarchy information and studied methods for mining usable rules from case transaction databases. Our study shows that mining generalized association rules from databases has wide applications, and efficient algorithms can be developed for discovery rules among case history Extension of methods for mining multiple concept knowledge rules to case base ones poses many new issues for further investigation. For example, approaching to CBR and supporting knowledge acquisition from expert are interesting topics for future study 


interesting topics for future study Acknowledgements This paper is supported by Science-Technology Development Project of Tianjin\(No. 04310941R References 1] R Agrawal, T. Imielinski,and A. Swami  Mining association rules  between sets of items in large databases  In Proc. 1993 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf Management of Data,  pp. 207-216, Washington D.C., May 1993 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant  Fast algorithms for mining association rules  In Proc. 1994 Int. Conf Very Large Data Bases, pp. 487-499, Santiago, Chile Sept. 1994 3] Han, YFu  Discovery of multiple-level  Association Rules from Large Databases  Inproc. on VLDB`95 pp. 420-431, 1995 4] D. W,and D. Wettschereck  Case-Based Learning Beyond Classification  of  Feature Vectors   proceedings  of  the European conference on Machine Learning,  1997 5] G. Piatesky-Shapiro and C. J. Matheus  The interestingness of deviations  In AAAI  94 Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases, pp 25-36,  Seattle, WA, July 1994 6] K.-D. and B. Bartsch-Sp  rl  Decision  support for case-based applications  Wirtschafts  informatik 38\(1  16, Feb. 1996 7] R.Bergmannand ? K.-D  Methodology  for building case-based reasoning applications  In M Lenz, B. Bartsch-Sp  rl, H.D. Burkhard, and S.Wess  Case-Based Reasoning Technology-From Foundations to Applications  pp.299  328. Springer Verlag. 1998 8] K.-D.Althoff, A.Birk.C.G. von Wangenheim, and C Tautz  CBR for experimental software engineering  InM.Lenz,B.Bartsch-Sp  rl,H.-D Burkhard, and S.Wess  Case-Based Reasoning Technology  number1400  in Lecture Notes  in Artificial Intelligence, chapter 9, pp.235  254 Springer-Verlag,  Berlin, Germany, 1998 9] S. Brin, R. Motwani, and C. Silverstein  Beyond market baskets: generlizing association rules to correlations  Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD,. pp 255-276, 1996 10] A. Savasere, E. Omiecinski, and S. Navathe  Mining for strong negative associations in a large database of costomer transactions  Proceedings of the International Conference on Data Engineering February ,1998 11] H.Toivonen  Sampling large databases for association rules  Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Very Large Database Bombay, India, September 1996 12] J.Han,J.Pei,and Y.Yin  Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation  In Proc.2000 ACM-SIGMOD Int.Conf. Management of Data\(SIGMOD  00 13] Brigitte Bartsch-Sp  rl 1, Klaus-Dieter  Learning from and reasoning about case-based reasoning systems  In Proc. of the Fourth German Conference on Knowledge-Based Systems, 1997  1986 pre></body></html 


 Step 1 The "miner" tells to the participants to add N versions of  specific pseudorandom  noise to their data and to send it to the "calculator". That it, the calculator gets from each participant its database N times.\(with a different noise  Step 2 The miner sends to the calculator some "seed" to create the pseudo-random noise. This seed will create a noise which is identical to one of the N noises, but the calculator doesn\222t know which one it is  Step 3 For every created noise the calculator subtract the noise from all N databases and perform the mining and sends the results back to the miner  Step 4 The miner picks up the right results  Privacy analysis  The parties \226 learn nothing but the results The miner \226 learns global data mining results but nothing on the local databases The calculator \226 The Calculator has one real database out of the N databases, so he has the probability of 1/N to learn everything! Obviously we can reduce this probability by adding some more artificial partcipants but each such participant increases the computation overhead  Computation and Communication overhead  The computation overhead is much higher, it is essentially multiplied by N. The communication overhead is N*overhead of Algorithm 2, but this is a one-shot overhead, and the communication overhead between the Miner and the Calculator is greatly reduced \(one message only  4. Conclusions   We discussed the problem of privacy-preserving data mining in distributed databases. We suggested a new architecture \(paradigm\ which is based on using two separate entities: a Miner and a Calculator, both not having parts of the database. We presented three algorithms which are based on this paradigm, one for Vertically partitioned data, one for Horizontally partitioned data, and one for any data mining method In contrast to the previously known methods of Perturbation or Secure computation, our algorithms produce accurate results \(better than perturbation\, but usually with much less computation and communication overhead than secure computation In the future we plan to investigate these algorithms and evaluate their performance on real-life databases   Acknowledgment   Thanks to the reviewers for their useful comments    References  1 R  A g r a w a l a nd R   Sr i k a n t  P r i v ac y pr es e r v i ng da t a  mining. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD\22200, pages 439\226450 Dallas, Texas, USA, May 2000  2 R  A g r a w a l and R  Sr i k a n t  Fa s t A l g o r i t h m s f o r M i ni ng  Association Rule  Proceedings . of the 20th Int'l Conf. on VLDB}, Santiago, Chile, 1994  3 P C h an A n E x t e ns i b l e M e t a L ear n i ng A ppr o a c h  f o r  Scalable and Accurate Inductive Learning. PhD thesis Department of Computer Science, Columbia University, New York, NY, 1996. \(Technical Report CUCS044-96  4  W  L  C h e u n g  V  N g  A  W  C  F u a n d Y  F u  Efficient mining of association rules in distributed databases IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 8\(6\:911-922, Dec. 1996  5  I   D in u r a n d K  N is s im R e v e a l in g in f o rm a tio n w h i le  preserving privacy. In Proc. of PODS\22203, pages 202 \226 210 June 2003  6 W  D u and M  J  A t a l l a h Sec u r e m u l t i par t y co m put at i o n  problems and their applications: A review and open problems. In Proceedings of the 2001 New Security Paradigms Workshop, Cloudcroft, New Mexico, Sept. 11-13 2001  7 C  D w o r k a nd K  N i s s i m  P r i v ac y pr es er v i ng dat a m i ni ng  on vertically partitioned databases. In Proc. of CRYPTO\22204 August 2004  8  E v fi mi e v s k i  J  Ge h r k e   a n d R  S r i k a n t L i mit in g  privacy breaches in privacy preserving data mining. In Proc of PODS\22203, pages 211\226222, San Diego, California, USA June 9-12 2003  9 A  E v fi mi e v s k i R  S r i k a n t  R  A g r a w a l  a n d  J  G e h r k e  Privacy preserving mining of association rules. In Proc. of ACM SIGKDD\22202, pages 2 17\226228, Canada, July 2002   B  G i l bu r d A  Sc hus t e r  and R  W o l f f  kt t p a new  privacy model for large-scale distributed environments. In Proc. of ACM SIGKDD\22204, pages 563\226568, 2004   O  G o l dr e i c h S  M i c a l i  and A  W i g der s o n H o w t o play any mental game \226 a completeness theorem for 


 protocols with honest majority. In 19th ACM Symposium on the Theory of Computing, pages 218-229, 1987   E  G u d e s  B  R o z e nber g  C o l l abo r a t i v e P r i v acy  Preserving Frequent Item Set Mining in Vertically Partitioned Databases. Proceedings of DBSec 2003: 91-104   E  G ude s  B  R o z e nbe r g  A n al y s i s o f T w o  A ppr o a c h es  for Association Rules Mining in Vertically Partitioned Databases , Proceedings of ICDM Workshop on Privacy and Security Aspects of Data Mining, Brighton, UK, November 2004   Z  H u ang  W  D u  an d B  C h en D e r i v i ng pr i v a t e  information from randomized data. In Proc. of ACM SIGMOD\22205, 2005   M  K a nt a r c i o g l u and C  C l i f t o n Pr i v ac y pr es e r v i ng  distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In The ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery DMKD'02\, June  2002  16 M  K a n t a r c i o g l u  C  C lif to n  P r iv a c y P re s e rv in g  Distributed Mining of Association Rules on Horizontally Partitioned Data. IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. 16\(9 1026-1037,  2004   H  K a r g upt a S  D a t t a  Q  W a ng  an d K   Si v a kum ar   On the privacy preserving properties of random data perturbation techniques. In Proc. of ICDM\22203, page 99 Washington, DC, USA, 2003. IEEE Computer Society   Y  L i nd el l  and B  P i nk as  P r i v acy pr es e r v i ng da t a  mining. In Proc. of CRYPTO\22200, pages 36\22654. SpringerVerlag, 2000  19 A  P r od r om i d i s  P  C h an  a n d S St ol f o M e t a l e a r n i n g in distributed data mining  systems: Issues and approaches chapter 3. AAAI/MIT Press, 2000   S J  R i z v i and J  R  H a r i t s a  P r i v ac y pr es e r v i ng  association rule mining. In  Proceedings of 28 th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases. VLDB, Aug. 20-23 2002    B.Rozenberg , MSc thesis, Ben-Gurion University 2003  22 J  V a id y a C  C lif to n  S e c u re  s e t i n t e r s e c tio n c a r d i n a li ty  with application to association rule mining. Journal of Computer Security 13\(4\: 593-622 \(2005  23 J  V a id y a C  C lif to n  P r iv a c y P r e s e r v in g A s s o c ia tio n  Rule Mining in Vertically Partitioned Data. In Proceedings of SIGKDD 2002, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, 2002  24 A  C  Y a o H o w  t o ge n e r a t e  a n d e x ch an ge s e cr e t s   In Proceedings of the 27th IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science pages 162-167,  1986           


Number of Processors Time \(seconds 0 20000 40000 60000 80000 1 2 4 8 Figure 9 Average execution time per node to nd frequent 3-itemsets 2-itemsets processed by each node in our four different system congurations Note that the number of candidate 2itemsets for the 1-node case is approximately the same as the average number of candidate 2-itemsets for the 2-node case This result is consistent with the observed total and average execution times for the 1-node and 2-node cases There is signicant reduction in the average number of candidate 2-itemsets processed for the 4-node and 8-node cases over the 1-node and 2-node cases This result represents the nonuniform distribution of itemsets over the local databases as well as the effective reduction of the candidate itemsets by the Inverted Hashing and Pruning technique Number of Candidate 2-itemsets 0 100000 200000 300000 400000 MIHP 2-node PM IHP 4-node PM IHP 8-node PM IHP Figure 10 Average number of candidate 2itemsets per node Figure 11 shows the average number of candidate 3itemsets processed by each node We included the number of candidate 3-itemsets processed in Apriori to demonstrate the usefulness of the Inverted Hashing and Pruning The number of candidate 2-itemsets for Apriori was about 82 million which is why we did not show that in Figure 10 We can observe the same pattern of reduction in the candidates 3-itemsets as in the candidate 2-itemsets This reduction in the average number of candidate itemsets processed by each processing node may be the most clear explanation for the high increasing rate of the speedup observed as the number of processing nodes increases Number of Candidate 3-itemsets 0 200000 400000 600000 800000 Apriori MIHP 2-node PM IHP 4-node PM IHP 8-node P M IHP Figure 11 Average number of candidate 3itemsets per node We also ran a test with a larger database 8 weeks of the Wall Street Journal published from January 2 1991 through February 22 1991 February 23rd was a Wall Street Journal holiday There were 6,170 documents and 64,191 unique words of which 31,948 were frequent words at the minimum support level of 0.03 i.e 2 out of 6,170 documents The 1-node system required 845,702 seconds to nd 1,554,442 frequent 2-itemsets whereas the 8-node system required 33,183 seconds This performance represents a superliner speedup of 25.5 of the 8-node system over the 1-node system Thus we can conclude that the performance of PMIHP is quite scalable when the database is large and the minimum support level is low which is the case of high workload The 1-node case generated 16,174,357 candidate 2itemsets whereas the 8-node case generated 2,459,629 candidate 2-itemsets per node on the average The total number of candidate 2-itemsets counted by the 8 nodes were 19,677,031 which means that only 21.7 of the candidate 2-itemsets were counted at more than one processing node This implies that the distribution of words across the 8-week sample of the Wall Street Journal is quite skewed In the Count Distribution algorithm all the nodes count the same set of candidate itemsets in each pass over the database regardless of the distribution of items over the local databases On the other hand in our PMIHP algorithm not all candidate itemsets are counted at more than one node when the distribution of items over the local databases is not uniform Obviously the more skewed the data distribution the better the performance of PMIHP Cheung et al 4 propos ed s e v e ral approaches to partition the databas e 0-7695-2132-0/04/$17.00 \(C Proceedings of the 18th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium \(IPDPS04 


to achieve a high degree of skewness Text documents arranged in a chronological order do appear to have a high degree of skewness and benet the PMIHP algorithm 4 Conclusions The proposed Parallel Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning PMIHP algorithm is a parallel version of our Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning MIHP algorithm and it is effective for mining frequent itemsets in large text databases The Multipass approach reduces the required memory space at each processor by partitioning the frequent items and pro cessing each partition separately Thus the number of candidate itemsets to be processed is limited at each instance The Inverted Hashing and Pruning is used to prune the local and global candidate itemsets at each processing node and it also allows each processing node to determine the other peer processing nodes to poll in order to collect the local support counts of each global candidate itemset PMIHP distributes the workload to multiple processing nodes to reduce the total mining time without incurring much parallelization overhead The average number of candidate itemsets to be counted at each processing node is much smaller than the case of sequential mining while the time for the synchronization between processing nodes to exchange the count information for the global candidate itemsets is very small compared to the total execution time PMIHP is able to exploit the natural skewed distribution of words in text databases and demonstrates a superlinear speedup as the number of processing nodes increases It has a much better performance than well-known parallel Count Distribution algorithm 2 becaus e the a v erage number of candidate itemsets to be counted at each processing node is much smaller especially when the minimum support level is low Overall the performance of PMIHP is quite scalable even when the size of the text database is large and the minimum support level is low which is the case of high workload References  R  A gra w al and R  S r i kant   Fast Al gori t h ms for M i n i n g A ssociation Rules Proc of the 20th VLDB Conf  1994 pp 487499  R Agra w a l and J C S hafer  Paral l e l M i n i n g o f A ssoci at i o n Rules IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 8 No 6 1996 pp 962969 3 M  S  C hen J Han and P  S  Y u   Dat a Mi ni ng An Overview from a Database Perspective IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 8 No 6 1996 pp 866883 4 D  W  C heung S  D L ee and Y  Xi ao  E f f ect of Dat a S k e w ness and Workload Balance in Parallel Data Mining IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 14 No 3 2002 pp 498514 5 S  M  C hung and J Y ang  A Par al l e l D i s t r i b ut i v e J oi n A l gorithm for Cube-Connected Multiprocessors IEEE Trans on Parallel and Distributed Systems  Vol 7 No 2 1996 pp 127137  R  F e l dman and H Hi rsh F i ndi ng Associ at i ons i n Col l ections of Text Machine Learning and Data Mining Methods and Applications  R Michalski I Bratko and M Kubat editors John Wiley and Sons 1998 pp 223240  R F e l dman I Dagen and H  H i rsh Mi ni ng T e xt Usi n g Keyword Distributions Journal of Intelligent Information Systems  Vol 10 No 3 1998 pp 281300  C  Fox L e x i cal Anal ysi s and S t opl i s t s   Inforamtion Retrieval Data Structures and Algorithms W.FrakesandR Baeza-Yates editors Prentice Hall 1992 pp 102130 9 M  G or don and S  Dumai s Usi ng L a t e nt S e mant i c I nde xi ng for Literature Based Discovery Journal of the Amer Soc of Info Science  Vol 49 No 8 1998 pp 674685  J Han J P e i  and Y  Y i n Mi n i n g F r equent Pat t e r n s w i t hout Candidate Generation Proc of ACM SIGMOD Intl Conf on Management of Data  2000 pp 112  J D Holt and S  M Chung Multipass Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Text Databases Knowledge and Information Systems  Vol 3 No 2 Springer-Verlag 2001 pp 168183  J D Hol t and S  M C hung Mi ni ng Associ at i o n R ul es Using Inverted Hashing and Pruning Information Processing Letters  Vol 83 No 4 Elsevier Science 2002 pp 211220  J D Hol t and S  M C hung Mi ni ng associ at i o n R ul es i n Text Databases Using Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning Proc of the 14th IEEE Intl Conf on Tools with Articial Intelligence  2002 pp 4956  J S  Park M S  C hen and P  S  Y u   Usi n g a Hash-B a sed Method with Transaction Trimming for Mining Association Rules IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 9 No 5 1997 pp 813825  G  S a l t on Automatic Text Processing The Transformation Analysis and Retrieval of Information by Computer  Addison-Wesley Publishing 1988  E  M V oorhees and D K Harmon edi t o rs The Fifth Text Retrieval Conference  National Institute of Standards and Technology 1997  O R  Z a i a ne and M L  Ant o i ne C l assi f y i n g T e x t D ocuments by Associating Terms with Text Categories Proc of the 13th Australian Database Conf  2002 0-7695-2132-0/04/$17.00 \(C Proceedings of the 18th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium \(IPDPS04 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


