A COARSE GRAINED AND HYBRID RECONFIGURABLE ARCHITECTURE WITH FLEXIBLE NOC ROUTER FOR VARIABLE BLOCK SIZE MOTION ESTIMATION Ruchika Verma Department of ECE University of Arizona Tucson, Az-85721 15206265149 ruchikav@ece.arizona.edu  Ali Akoglu Department of ECE University of Arizona Tucson, Az-85721 15206265149 akoglu@ece.arizona.edu  ABSTRACT 
This paper proposes a novel application-specific hybrid coarsegrained reconfigurable architecture with a flexible network on chip NoC mechanism Architecture supports variable block size motion estimation \(VBSME\with much less resources than ASIC based and coarse grained reconfigurable architectures The intelligent NoC router supports full search motion 
estimation algorithm as well as other fast search algorithms like diamond hexagon big hexagon and spiral Our model is a hierarchical hybrid processing element based 2D architecture which supports reuse of reference frame blocks between the processing elements through NoC routers This reduces the transactions from/to the main memory.  Proposed architecture is designed with Verilog-HDL description and synthesized by 90 nm CMOS standard cell library Results show that our architecture reduces the gate count by 7x compared to its ASIC counterpart that only supports full search method  Moreover the proposed architecture operates at a frequency comparable to ASIC based implementation to sustain 30fps  Our approach is based on a simple design which utilizes a high-level of 
parallelism with an intensive data reuse Therefore proposed architecture supports run-time reconfiguration for any block size and for any search pattern depending on the application requirement 1  INTRODUCTION 
There is an increasing demand for multimedia processing solutions through flexible and highly parallel architectures H.264 [1  v i d e o  c o m p re s s i o n  s t a n d a rd  p l a y s  a n  i m p o rt a n t  ro l e  i n  today\222s consumer market Motion estimation ME is a key technique in most algorithms for video compression. It is one of the most compute intensive subroutines of H.264. Compared to fixed block-size ME FBSME H.264 supports VBSME 2  which provides better estimation of small and irregular motion fields and allows better adaptation of motion boundaries 
resulting in a reduced number of bits required for coding prediction. In motion estimation, each frame of a video sequence is divided into fixed number of non-overlapping square blocks For each block in current frame, best matching block is searched within the previous frame In most block matching algorithms the sum of absolute differences SAD is used as the main metric VBSME requires support for 7 block patterns 16x16 16x8 8x8 8x4 4x8 4x4 Supporting this feature is a challenging task in terms of resource utilization when implementing the application on hardware Due to its highly parallel nature and algorithm\222s demand for a flexible solution, a reconfigurable architecture poses as an ideal candidate to respond to this compute intensive routine 
Based on the historical perspective implementation of motion estimation has evolved through general purpose processors[3  4   5    A S IC 5   6   7   8   9    F P G A  1 0    a n d  coarse grained reconfigurable architectures [11   1 2    1 3     1 4    Existing architectures either only support FBSME or implement VBSME with redundant hardware While new processor advances including VLIW SIMD and out of order execution have provided some advances in exploiting parallelism within applications the processor\222s inherently sequential and generic architecture limits the ability to efficiently exploit potential parallelism within highly concurrent types of algorithms Alternatively application specific instruction set processors ASIPs allow designers to custom the microprocessor by 
adding custom instructions and execution units within the processor However such extensions are similar to VLIW or SIMD approaches and are still limited to the data access through the processor\222s register file Several ASIC based approaches have been proposed for variable block size block matching algorithms to reduce computational complexities However some of these architectures 5   6    7   are not capable of processing all the block sizes specified by the H.264. As an alternative, Yap [8  p ro m i s e s  t o  s u p p o rt  a l l  b l o c k  sizes Architecture is formed of 16 processing elements PEs interconnected as a 1D systolic array where each PE computes a 4x4 SAD. As an improvement, Ou [9  i n t ro d u c e s  a  h i e ra rc h i c a l  1D systolic architecture that employs partial SAD computation 
technique.  Additionally in [9   a  223 
VBSME processor 
224 consists of a fixed set of redundant adders. Therefore this architecture has high area overhead which can be improved by using a flexible routing architecture Coarse-grained reconfigurable architectures RaPiD[14   MATRIX[12   Ch E S S  1 3    RA W  1 1   h a v e  b e e n  i n t ro d u c e d  t o  overcome some of the drawbacks of lookup table based finegrained reconfigurable architectures, such as FPGAs. In general coarse-grained reconfigurable fabrics are composed of high 
224, based on an adder tree structure supports all block sizes In overall 9  achieves lower latencies with higher throughput compared to existing VBSME architectures However partial SAD computation requires delay registers and extra accumulators and 223 
VBSME processor 
level processing elements PEs with generic reconfigurable interconnect network. While fewer configuration bits are needed for the PEs fully utilizing the functionality of each PE is difficult leading to significant under utilization of coarsegrained fabrics. This can be avoided by tailoring the architecture to the computation characteristics of the algorithm with application specific hybrid grained processing elements interconnected through a tuned routing architecture 


In sections 2 and 3 we give an overview of existing ASIC and coarse grained architectures and analyze their perf ormance on VBSME with respect to processing power and resource  utilization metrics Section 4 introduces the new a rchitecture section 5 presents implementation results and secti on 6 outlines the conclusion 2  ASIC BASED APPROACHES ASIC based architectures can be broadly classified into different categories depending upon various metrics such as t opology of processing elements and methodology for accumulatio n of SADs etc. Based on topology, the architecture can b e classified as 1D and 2D systolic arrays 1D architectures 8 15 16  consist of 1D systolic array of processing elements  They are simpler in structure but use a large number of regi sters for storing partial SADs and thus suffer in area and hi gh latencies owing to the sequential computation and accumulatio n of SADs 2D architectures [6, 7  c o n s i s t  o f  p r o c e s s i n g  e l e m e nts connected in a mesh-based architecture and SAD computations a re directmapped. [6  d o e s  n o t  s u p p o r t  b l o c k  s i z e s  s m a l l e r  t h an 8x8. This architecture uses a smaller 2D array So the parti al SADs are calculated and added sequentially This results in greater latencies. [7  d o e s  n o t  s u p p o r t  V B S M E   I t  u s e s  a  l a rge number of storage registers to store reference pixels Als o loading of reference pixels in the propagation registers cause s long latencies Based on methodology for accumulation of SADs the architectures can be classified as partial and para llel sum SADs In partial sum SAD architectures 6   r e f e r e n c e  p i x els are broadcasted and SAD computation for each 4x4 subblo ck is pipelined In this architecture each processing el ement computes one pixel difference accumulates it to th e previous partial SAD and sends the computed partial SAD to t he next processing element. This kind of architecture uses large number of storage registers due to the accumulation of par tial SADs in each processing element. In parallel sum SAD archit ectures, all pixel differences for a 4x4 sub-block are computed concurrently and thus added in one clock cycle. In this architec ture, reference pixels are reused between different processing elem ents which decrease memory bandwidth requirements. The directi on of data transfer among different processing elements depend s on the search pattern adopted In this paper we discuss 9  i n  d e t a i l  w h i c h  p r o m i ses to have lower latency and higher throughput over other exis ting VBSME architectures till date. [9  c o n s i s t s  o f  1 6  s eparate SAD  modules Figure 1a\  to process sixteen 4x4 motion vector s. It also consists of a chain of adders and comparators  VBSME processor to compute larger SADs  PE array  Figure 1b which forms the computation element of each SAD mod ule is constructed by cascading four 1D arrays Figure 1c  Each 1D array consists of a 1D systolic array of 4 PEs. Eac h PE computes 1 pixel SAD. This circuit operates by scheduling th e columns of the current 4x4 subblock  current_block_data_i  through a delay line and broadcasting two sets of search blo ck columns  block_strip_A and block_strip_B on each clock cycle. Four block matching operations can be performed concurre ntly in one SAD module. The produced 4x4 SADs are then sent thr ough a fixed series of adders and comparators to produce 4 x4 motion vectors The 4x4 SADs are also sent in parallel to four sets of adders and comparators to produce 4x8, 8x4 SADs. Th e two 8x4 SADs are then again sent through a set of adders an d comparators to form 8x8 SAD 16x8 8x16 and 16x16 SADs are computed similarly This adder/comparator based  chain of events form the adder tree structure 9  h a s  s e p a r a t e  S A D  m o d u l e s  f o r  4 x 4  s u b b l o c k  c o m p u tations with separate input ports for loading current block  and search region data Thus it does not support reuse of sea rch data between modules. This increases the amount of data transactions from the memory. Also, the VBSME is supported by a fixed set of adders based on a large adder tree leading to re source wastage An intelligent routing scheme that uses sa me set of adders to compute different motion vectors each tim e is needed to overcome the wastage Also this architecture do es not support other fast search algorithms like diamond s earch hexagonal search etc 3  COARSE-GRAINED ARCHITECTURES  In general coarse-grained reconfigurable fabrics a re composed of high-level functional blocks with generic reconf igurable interconnect network In this section we provide a brief review and analysis of ChESS RaPiD and MATRIX architectur es for implementing motion estimation algorithm We carefu lly chose these three architectures for an investigation base d on granularity. They vary in granularity from 4-bit, 8 bit to 16- bit processing elements and buses and thus help in prov iding a     a\ SAD Modules b\ PE Array c\  1D Array Figure 1: Hierarchical 1D systolic array architectu re with 4 processing elements \(PEs\ forming 1D arra y and 4 1D arrays forming a module  


broad view about mapping of motion estimation algor ithm on coarse-grained architectures The ChESS [13  a r c h i t e c t u r e  i s  a  r e c o n f i g u r a b l e  a r i thmetic array targeted mainly for multimedia applications The fu ndamental computation component is a 4-bit ALU with 16 instru ctions The routing structure is based on 4-bit buses. Each ALU has a switchbox adjacent to it which serves as a crosspoi nt with 64 connections  Hence it needs about 64 bits to confi gure the switches and connections. Since each ALU has a corr esponding switchbox associated with it the routing area consu mes up to 50% of the total area. If we map the motion estimat ion algorithm on the ChESS architecture and try to exploit full p arallelism SAD computation for a 16x16 array would require a 5 12 ALU ChESS array MATRIX 12  i s  y e t  a n o t h e r  c o a r s e g r a i n e d  r e c o n f i g u rable computing architecture composed of 2D array of iden tical, 8-bit functional units overlaid with a configurable netwo rk Each functional unit consists of an 8-bit ALU memory an d control logic MATRIX also has a generic routing architectu re Mapping the motion estimation algorithm on the MATR IX architecture for a 16x16 block would require a 256 ALU MATRIX array. The MATRIX array with 8-bit functiona l units would require one functional unit for one pixel dif ference calculation The performance result for motion esti mation algorithm if mapped on a 256 ALU MATRIX array is  M x 0.8M\/256 x 17 x 17  c l o c k  c y c l e s  c o n s i d e r i n g  a  f r a me size of M x 0.8M. Also, support for VBSME in these architectu res would involve huge routing complexity which is difficult to implement owing to the generic nature of routing architecture  RaPiD 14  i s  a  c o a r s e g r a i n e d  a r c h i t e c t u r e  m a i n l y  targeted for DSP applications It consists of 1D array of functi onal units ALUs, multipliers, Registers and RAMs\. The comple te RaPiD array contains 16 of these cells The functional un its cells in RaPiD are interconnected using a set of ten segment ed buses that run the length of the datapath. The buses in d ifferent tracks are segmented into different lengths. The implement ation result for motion estimation as provided in the paper for a block size of 8x8 is 272+32M+14.45M2 clock cycles considering a frame size of M x 0.8M The implementation details show t hat the available parallelism in the system has not been ex ploited to the fullest extent. For a 16x16 SAD, only the row-wise differences are computed in parallel The column wise differenc es are computed sequentially which decreases the performan ce to a great extent. This is because the linear array form of architecture fails to exploit this parallelism Also there is hu ge underutilization of resources as one cell comprisin g of 3 ALUs is being used for computing just one difference per clock cycle Though no such information has been provided in the  paper even if we assume that the second ALU is being used for adding the differences in a pipeline, the third ALU remain s unutilized Also, the ALUs are 16 bit, and the SAD computation involves 8 bit operation which again adds to underutilization  Also the reference frames considered are 8x8 So the archit ecture does not support SAD calculation for smaller block sizes  The algorithm does not require ten buses for routing. S o it leads to underutilization of routing resources too Also th e real time video performance on a standard 720 x 576 image is about 12 frames per second using 100 MHz clock. So, the perf ormance is quite poor with a huge dissipation of energy. The p aper does not talk about supporting VBSME by the architecture This analysis shows that existing generic coarse gr ained architectures are not capable of responding to the computation demands of the motion estimation algorithm Hence there is a need for application specific coarse grained archit ecture with intelligent NoC mechanism tuned for motion estimati on algorithm 4  PROPOSED ARCHITECTURE 4.1  Hybrid Architecture Overview  We propose a 2D architecture formed of three types of processing elements \(CPE, PE2 and PE3\ as shown in figure 2 Architecture contains 16 CPE”s 4 PE 2”s and 1 P E 3 Each “CPE” \(figure 3\ has a PE 1, Network Interface NI\ and a NoC router and each node is labeled as “CPE \(x,y where \(x,y represents grid coordinates Each PE2 is represente d as PE 2\(z where z identifies the processing element A“CPE  receives current and reference block from main memo ry through its 32-bit data input ports labeled as  current_data_\(x,y  and  reference_data_\(x,y where x and y are [1,2,3 or 4    In ME, given a current frame \(CF\ and its reference frame \(RF CF is first divided into non-overlapping macroblock s of size 16x16. Each macroblock associated with a search reg ion in RF is then partitioned into 16 4x4 sub-blocks labeled as \(x,y\. “PE 1 is responsible for block–matching operations SA Ds of a 4x4 sub-block and its search region PE 1 generat es a 4x4 SAD which is then fed into PE2 PE2 is capable of g enerating 4x8, 8x4 or 8x8 motion vectors based on the type of block size Similarly PE3 is capable of generating 8x16 16x8 a nd 16x16 motion vectors Architecture by default supports fu ll search data transfer between adjacent CPEs with zigzag p attern Figure 12 Other fast search algorithms like diam ond or hexagonal pattern search require reference blocks t o be transferred between adjacent/non-adjacent processin g elements Hence NI packetizes reference block data forming a  message and based on the search pattern inserts the routing information in header packet of the message. Then, NoC router t ransfers data from source PE to destination PE depending on the r outing information. This data transfer takes place through bi-directional edges between CPE”s In the following section we introduce hybrid PEs and routing mechanism and discuss their operation principles In section 4.5 we detail the functional ity of all the modules using examples Memory Interface MI CPE”s request reference blocks from main memory through MI. MI computes memory add resses of those blocks based on the search pattern It als o holds memory address of sixteen current frames that are  already in the CPEs  MI receives data_load_control 16 bits  and reference_block_id 5 bits signals where data_lo ad_control identifies the CPE and reference_block_id identifie s the requested block MI then feeds the Main Memory with  the address of that requested block 4.2  Configurable Processing Element \(CPE 4.2.1 PE 1 Figure 3 shows the structure of PE1 1,1 It is co mposed of 5 hybrid adders sixteen 8 bit subtracters sixteen 8  bit current pixel registers \(CPR\ and sixteen 8 bit reference p ixel registers RPR Subtracters calculate absolute difference be tween a 


search pixel and a current pixel. Adders then gener ate 4x4 SAD and comparator COMP checks whether the current or  the previous SAD is smaller and produces 4x4 motion vec tor If block size is larger than 4x4, then current SAD is sent to PE2 For full search, demultiplexers are used to load th e data into the RPRs based on the direction of movement in the sear ch window to support ziz-zag pattern.  For all other search p atterns data is loaded through RPRs 1, 2, 3 and 4 and propagated th rough 16 subtracters 4.2.2  Network Interface \(NI As shown in figure 3, NI contains packetization, de packetization and control units. This unit performs the following three tasks   If PE1 has completed operating on a reference block  NI receives the block and inserts header information t o that specifying direction of movement number of hops i n the specified direction and size of the data forming a  message through packetization unit NI first generates a r equest signal 1 bit and sends it to the NoC router When  acknowledgment” is received by NI then it sends th e message to the router Each packet is formed of 4 pixel dat a \(32 bits and 32 bits is reserved for header packet   If PE1 is the destination node NI receives the mes sage from NoC router and extracts reference block from incomi ng message through its depacketization unit and sends this data to PE1   If the reference block required by PE1 is not resid ing in any another PE1, then NI generates the “data_load_contr ol” \(1 bit and “reference_block_id” \(5 bits\ signals through i ts “Control Unit” and feeds them to MI in order to request the data from Main Memory 4.2.3  NoC Router   If PE1 has completed operating on a reference block after the handshaking mechanism described earlier in NI secti on, NoC router receives the packetized message through 32 b it 5-1  input multiplexer  from NI The packets are then stored in ring buffer. A ring buffer is used instead of a FIFO as data can be accessed from it in only one clock cycle irr espective of buffer size. To accomplish this, we use two pointer s as shown in figure 3. The pointer first_index shows where the first data that comes in is stored Thus data pointed to by first_index should be the first data that comes out of buffer The pointer last_index shows where the last data that came in buffer is stored Thus the location where next data that come s in is stored is last_index  1  Suppose first packet is stored at location 1 and last packet is stored at location 5  The next packet that comes in after that will be stored at l ocation 0 and the next packet that goes out will be the packet at location 1 Buffer sends first packet of message to  header decoder   Header decoder  follows x-y routing protocol and extracts the direction of data transfer from header packet It also updates header packet with remaining “number of hop s in the direction of data transfer”. Based on the required direction of data transfer message is forwarded to an adjacent router through 32 bit 1-5 output de-multiplexer    When an adjacent router B has to send message to router A output controller of “B” first sends a request signal 1 bit to  input controller  of A If A is not busy communicating with any other routers, then input controller  of A checks available space in the buffer and sen ds an acknowledgement signal ack to output controller of  “B After receiving ack B starts sending message t o A through 32 bit 5-1 input multiplexer of “A”. The packets are then stored in  ring buffer  and forwarded to  header decoder where the following actions are taken   If the message has reached destination node it is sent to depacketization unit of NI through output  de-multiplexer    If the message has to be transferred to an adjacent  router C A is an intermediate hop  output  controller of “A” sends a request signal \(1 bit to input controller of “C”. After receiving “ack  Figure 2  Proposed architecture composed of 16 CP Es 4 PE2s and 1 PE3 CPEs receive data from main m emory through Memory Interface \(MI\ where MI computes memory addr ess of the reference blocks 


                                                            Figure 10. Data Transfer Patterns for Small Diamond search  Figure 9. Coordinate conventions Table 1 Data load schedule for PE1\(1,1 PE1\(1,3\ for diamond search Figure 4.    Processing element of type 2, PE2 \(1  Figure 3.  CPE comprising of PE1 at the corner of t he architecture, Network Interface \(NI\, NoC Router  Figure 6 Data Transfer Patterns for Diamond search direction and order of data transfer follows the numbering scheme  Figure 5. Current 48x48 Frame, and highlighted region\(16x16 macroblock from current frame Figure 7 Reference Frames for PE1\(1,1 and PE1\(1,3 For P x y  x represents PE\(1,x and y represents order of data transfer Figure 8 Data Reuse between PE1s where numbers represent cycles from Table 1 


from C A starts sending message to C through  its 32 bit 1-5 output de- multiplexer  4.3  PE 2 and PE 3 Figure 4 shows processing element PE 2 It consis ts of 3 adders 2 multiplexers mux 2 demultiplexers dem ux 5 comparators and 5 registers. In PE 2, muxes “s1” an d “s2” select the computation of either 4x8 or 8x4 motion vectors Demuxes s3 and s4 direct 4x8 or 8x4 SADs to their corre sponding comparators and registers After computing either 4 x8 or 8x4 SADs 8x8 SAD is generated which is sent to PE 3 to  process larger block SADs PE 3 is similar to PE 2 with dif ferences in granularity of adders. In PE 3, muxes “s1” and “s2 Figure 4 select computation of either 8x16 or 16x8 motion ve ctors Thereafter, demuxes “s3” and “s4” direct 8x16 or 16 x8 SADs to their corresponding comparators and registers Then  16x16 SAD is computed from either 8x16 or 16x8 SADs. Now we will discuss the routing patterns for different search a lgorithms 4.4  Fast Search Algorithms and Case Study Fast search algorithms like diamond, hexagon, big h exagon and spiral have been introduced to reduce the computati on complexity of motion estimation by operating on red uced number of reference blocks Number of reference blo cks for diamond and hexagon searches are shown in figures 6  and 11 Diamond search requires 9+5n+4 reference blocks  17  a n d  hexagon search requires 7+3n+4 18  r e f e r e n c e  b l o cks where  n is the number of execution iterations Diamond Search As shown in figure 6, pattern consists of nine candidate search points reference blocks in first  iteration Numbers in this figure represent the order of proce ssing the reference frames Directed edges are labeled with d ata transmission equations derived for diamond search p attern based on the data dependencies The grid co-ordinates fol lowed for data transfer is shown in fig 9. An equation is rep resented with nx\ and \(+/-ny\ where \(+ or -\ denotes the dire ction of data transfer on the x and y axis and n denotes the numb er of hops in that direction. Also, load indicates that reference block is loaded from the main memory We now explain SAD computation using diamond search  pattern for a 16 x 16 current block on the proposed architecture Figure 5 represents the current frame which is divi ded into blocks of size 4 x 4.  Sixteen 4x4 current blocks 5 3, 54, 55, 56 65 66 67 68 77 78 79 80 89 90 91 92 are loaded into CPE  \(1,1\, CPE  \(1,2\, CPE  \(1,3\, CPE  \(1,4\, CPE 2,1\, CPE 2,2 CPE  2,3 CPE  2,4 CPE  3,1 CPE  3 2 CPE 3,3\, CPE  \(3,4\, CPE  \(4,1\, CPE  \(4,2\, CPE  \(4 3\, CPE  \(4,4 respectively Each PE1 of the CPEs with a current b lock processes SAD on 9 reference blocks. PE1 \(1,1\ comp utes SAD for current block 53 against reference blocks 29 40’, 42’, 55 53’, 51’, 64’, 66’, 77 Figure 7 shows data dependencies and data transfer patterns for PE1\(1,1 and PE1\(1,3 Solid squares represent inte rsecting search points between the two and solid circles rep resent the other search points Table 1 shows the reference bl ock to be loaded in PE1s at different clock cycles. At clock cycle one, first search points \(reference blocks P 1 1 and P 3 1 are loaded into both processing elements from main memory through MI Fo r this NIs of CPE\(1,1 and CPE\(1,3 set  respective  data_load_control  signals to high indicating the CPE ids and “reference_block_id” output  to 1 indicating th e index of the search point on the diamond pattern \(figure 7\. Bas ed on these inputs and address of the current frames MI genera tes the addresses of the reference frames as per the search  pattern and outputs it to the main memory Main memory then se nds the requested data through corresponding “CPE” input po rts. In this case first reference blocks for PE1\(1,1 and PE1\(1 3 are 29 and 31’ respectively. Figure 7 shows that third sea rch point \(P 1 3  required by PE1\(1,1 is same as second search point  P 3 2  of PE1\(1,3 At clock cycle three P 3 2 is transmitted from PE1\(1,3\’s router to PE1\(1,1 The NI of PE1\(1,3 p acketizes the reference block according to data transmission equation Figure 6 Equation 1x+1y arrow labeled from poi nt 1 to 2 and sends the packets to the router The router of PE1\(1,2 receives the packets, decodes the header packet and following xy routing scheme forwards the packets to the route r of PE1\(1,1 PE1\(1,1 is the destination node hence it s NI depacketizes the data to be processed within its PE 1 Same events take place at cycles 5, 6 and 8 as shown in Figure 8.  The events illustrated with Figure 8 take place for all  sixteen 4x4 current blocks. The above data transfer pattern als o dictates that at every clock cycle, every CPE is accessing a uniq ue reference block. So, at no time slot, two CPEs compete for th e same data and there is no case of resource conflict For every successive iteration, nine SADs are compu ted in each PE1 If the computed SAD minima is located at one o f the vertices  1,4,6 and 9 or edges 2,3,7,8  of the  diamond Figure 6\ , a new diamond pattern is formed with t he minima as the new center for the next iteration This again r equires computation of SADs for next nine reference frames in the same order as in figure 7. But in this case, minima at t he vertex leads to only 5 new reference frames and the minima at th e edges lead to only 3 new reference frames for one iteration I n the last iteration, the minima is the center point \(5\. In t hat case, a small diamond is formed around the minima with 4 referenc e frames The order of reference frames for loading the data for this case and the data transmission equations are shown in fi gure 10. Data transmission equations for hexagon big hexagon and  spiral search patterns are shown in figure 11. The spiral search is more compute-intensive compared to other fast search pat terns The width of the spiral search determines the number of  reference frames to be compared In this example we carry ou t a 5x5 spiral search as shown in figure 11\(c So the num ber of reference frames is 25 Full Search Now we illustrate the functionality of the proposed architecture for full search. Table 2 show s data load schedule  for PE1\(1,1 As shown in table 2\(a at cycle on e four pixels of 4x4 current block are loaded into CP R registers 1 2, 3, 4 through current_data_\(1,1\ port. At cycle t wo, these four pixels are shifted to CPR registers 5, 6, 7, 8 and next four pixels are loaded into CPR registers 1 2 3 4 This cont inues for 4 cycles till a 4x4 current block is completely loade d into PE 1\(1,1\ as shown in table 2\(b\. Similarly, a 4x4 ref erence block is loaded into RPR registers of PE 1\(1,1 in four cycl es through reference_data_\(1,1 port All the PE1s are loaded with corresponding current and reference blocks in a sim ilar fashion At the end of the fifth clock cycle, 4x4 SADs are c omputed and sent to PE 2\(1 Table 3 Control signals to PE 2 1 select between computation of 4x8 SAD or 8x4 SAD at the en d of sixth cycle. At the end of seventh cycle, 8x8 SAD i s computed Similarly, four 8x8 SADs are then sent to PE 3. In PE 3, control signals select between computation of 8x16 SAD or 1 6x8 SAD 


                                         at the end of eighth cycle. At the end of ninth cyc le, 16x16 SAD  is computed \(Table 4\. Now, we present the performa nce results of our architecture and compare it with the ASIC ba sed approach [9   5  RESULTS Proposed architecture was designed with Verilog-HDL  description and synthesized by 90 nm CMOS standard cell library. Design contains about 82K gates. As shown in Table 5 resource usage technology independent gate count of our architecture is about one-seventh of its counterpar t 9   W h i l e  9  f o l l o w s  p a r t i a l  s u m  S A D  a p p r o a c h  a n d  t a k e s  4  c y cles for producing the first 4x4 SAD, our architecture requi res 5 cycles including 4 cycles of the data load schedule phase. Rest of the computations in our architecture and [9  a r e  p i p e l i ned. Thus, [9  requires 265 cycles to produce a 16x16 motion vecto r for full search while our architecture requires 266 cycles Table 6 shows the minimum clock rate that is required to sustain 30fps and 60fps frame rates by the proposed architecture and its counterpart 9   A s  s h o w n  i n  t a b l e  6   f o r  Q C I F  f o r m at ASIC approach [9  n e e d s  t o  o p e r a t e  a t  0  7 6  M H z  t o  s u s t a i n the 30fps requirement, whereas our design needs a little fast er clock. This is because the number of cycles required to compute  16x16 motion vector is larger in our design 266 cycles  vs 9  2 6 5  cycles\.  For clock rates slower than 0.8 MHz, our design won’t be able to sustain 30fps  As shown in table 6 for  all frame sizes, our clock rate is comparable with [9   A s  e x pected, while the frame size gets larger the clock rate needs to  increase to respond to the more number of computations with the 30fps or 60 fps constraint Fewer number of search points for fast search algor ithms overcomes the “router” cycles overhead and requires even lesser number of cycles than full search Router’s critica l path consumes 6 cycles. Total data transmission cycles a re the sum of router cycles and total number of hops. Since avera ge number of hops for fast search patterns is 2, the routing cyc le’s overhead is 8 cycles per search point. Also, worst case number of reference blocks accounts from n=4 and best case comes from n 0 on a 32x32 search region. So, the best case and worst ca se number of search points are 13 and 33 for diamond search Inc luding the Table 2 \(a\ Data load schedule for PE1 Table 2 \(b\ Data load schedule for PE1 Table 3 Data flow for calculation of 8x8 SAD Table 4 Data flow for calculation of 16x16 SAD 0ÿišhù/ý8Ž» Ú×\`þÄ :3èàÍ£(èÜÞ¡k9\×•.h_ zû4Cß÷aþÍ0Ïs z ÀÀûý¾€!ÃëõŠÜB gMÓPÀ0Ãf K„PŠë#Â2À$ãn·+‹`ð²\.pŠ_.Çqz½ž Î2¨Ç*Ä€	B@Œ˜Ïçív[Ð@UU0ðB Øäd€Ó1‘VNÐ0   V«#‘Æ-Ž@G*•"ÜŽ˜ÍfX  K 82˜N§™L†-(‹&Ès¹#€'.¬çyQF£d2 VõÞ[kA’ÆÊEN    K  L€³¦iZ×5ß÷5†º®Ñ†!*žbÑ>Ã¾ï¯×+MSáôëº`€,ËŽãèºÎ¶m Figure 12.   Zig-Zag Search Pattern Table 5 Resource usage comparison of the proposed  architecture and its counterpart [9  Table 6 Required clock rates of the proposed architecture and its counterpart [9  f o r  v a r i o u s   frame sizes and frame rates using full search  Table 7 Required clock rate of the proposed archite cture  using diamond search\(DS\, hexagon search\(HS\,  big hexagon search\(BHS\ and spiral search\(SS\  for vari ous frame sizes and frame rates  Figure 11. \(a\ Hexagon Data Transfer Pattern  b\ Big Hexagon Data Transfer Pattern  c\ Spiral Data Transfer Pattern  


routing overhead diamond search takes 104 cycles a nd 264 cycles for best case and worst case scenarios respe ctively which is less than 266 cycles of full search Similarly the worst case and best case number of search points are 23 and 11  for hexagonal search and thus it takes 184 and 88 cycle s respectively to produce a 16x16 motion vector. The worst case and best case number of search points are 33 and 21  for big hexagonal search and thus it takes 264 and 168 cycl es respectively to produce a 16x16 motion vector Also  the number of search points is constant for all the cas es of a spiral search For a 5x5 spiral search Figure 11\(c the  number of search points is 25 and thus it takes 200 cycles to  produce a 16x16 motion vector  Therefore architecture suppo rts fast search algorithms with operational frequencies less than the full search algorithm table 6 as shown in Table 7 For  QCIF format our architecture operates at 0.8MHz for ful l search Whereas as shown in Table 7 for DS HS BHS and S S it operates at 0.78 0.55 0.78 0.59 MHz correspondin gly for worst case scenarios. Since the number of search po ints for fast search types decrease significantly our architectu re can now operate at a slower clock rate even for the worst c ase scenarios to sustain the 30fps Further this pattern is obse rvable for all frame sizes Thus, the clock rate of the proposed architecture i s comparable to ASIC implementation for both full search and fas t search algorithms with much lesser resources. Therefore, t he frame size and frame rate supported by the circuit can be subs tantially extended subject to this clock rate constraint for high definition 6  CONCLUSION This paper proposed a new application specific reco nfigurable hybrid coarse-grained architecture with intelligent NoC scheme Existing coarse-grained architectures have generic processing elements and routing structure and therefore suffer  in performance and resource utilization for motion est imation algorithm as compared to our architecture. The inte lligent NoC scheme in our architecture supports VBSME for diffe rent types of fast search patterns like diamond search hexago nal search etc Hybrid grained processing elements support var iable block sizes in motion estimation. Simplicity and highly p arallel nature of the architecture with an excellent degree of dat a reuse makes our design suitable for run time reconfiguration A rchitecture can easily be configured to run any fast search or full search algorithm with block size variations to respond to the video quality and/or timing constraints Our 2D architect ure supports huge reuse of search data between processing elemen ts and thus reduces the memory transaction requirement which is missing in existing state of the art approaches Proposed arch itecture uses hybrid grained processing elements to compute 4x8 o r 8x4 and 8x16 or 16x8 motion vectors dynamically depending o n the control signals supplied. Our architecture is highl y flexible as it supports any block size for any search type which i s a challenging problem from ASIC perspective 7  REFERENCES 1  T. Wiegand, G. J. Sullivan, G. Bjontegaard, and A Luthra Overview of the H.264/AVC video coding standard IEEE   Trans on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, vol.13, no. 7, pp. 560–576, July 2003 2  Injong Rhee et al  Quadtree-Structured Variable Size Block-Matching Motion Estimation with Minimal Error  IEEE Trans Circuits Syst Video Technol vol 10 Feb p.42-50, 2000 3  Lappalainen V Hailapuro A Hamalainen T.D. Noki a Res Center Tampere Performance of H.26L video encoder on general-purpose processor The Journal of VLSI Signal Processing 4  S Reader and T Meng Performance Evaluation of Motion Estimation Algorithms for Digital Signal Processors,” Tech. report, Stanford University, 199 9 5  P. M. Kuhn, “Fast MPEG-4 Motion Estimation: Process or Based and Flexible VLSI Implementations Journal o f VLSI Signal Processing Systems for Signal Image a nd Video Technology, vol. 23, pp 67-92, October 1999 6  J.F Shen et al A Novel Low-Power Full-Search Blo ckMatching Motion-Estimation Design for H.263 IEEE  Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, vol. 11, no. 7, July 2001, pp.890-897 7  L de Vos and M Schobinger VLSI architecture for  a flexible block matching processor IEEE Trans Cir cuits and Systems for Video Technology Vol 5 pp.417-42 8 1995 8  S Y Yap and J V McCanny  A VLSI architecture for variable block size video motion estimation IEEE Transactions on CAS II, vol. 51, no. 7, July 2004 9  Chien-Min Ou Chian-Feng Le and Wen-Jyi Hwang An Efficient VLSI Architecture for H.264 Variable Bloc k Size Motion Estimation IEEE Transaction on Consumer Electronics, Volume 51,  Issue 4,  Nov. 2005 Page\(s 1291 1299 10  Alex Soohoo FPGA Co-Processing Architectures for Video Compression,” Altera Corporation 11  E Waingold et al Baring it all to Software RAW  Machines,” IEEE Computer, September 1997, pp. 86-93  12  E Mirsky A DeHon MATRIX A Reconfigurable Computing Architecture with Configurable Instructio n Distribution and Deployable Resources Proc IEEE FCCM'96, Napa, CA, USA, April 17-19, 1996 13  A. Marshall et al., “A Reconfigurable Arithmetic Ar ray for Multimedia Applications Proc ACM/SIGDA FPGA'99 Monterey, Feb. 21-23, 1999 14  Carl Ebeling Darren C Cronquist Paul Franklin C hris Fisher RaPiD  A Configurable Computing Architect ure for Compute-Intensive Applications University of Washington Department of Computer Science  Engineering Tech Report TR-96-11-03 15  K.M Yang M T Sun and L Wu A family of VLSI designs for the motion compensation block-matching algorithm,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst., vol. 36, no 10, pp 1317–1325, Oct. 1989 16  Y.K Lai and L G Chen A data-interlacing archit ecture with two dimensional data-reuse for full-search blo ckmatching algorithm IEEE Trans Circuits Syst Vid eo Technol., vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 124–127, Apr. 1998 17  Jo Yew Tham et al A novel unrestricted center-bi ased diamond search algorithm for block motion estimatio n IEEE Trans Circuits Syst Video Technol vol 8 no 4 Aug. 1998 18  Ce Zhu et al., “Hexagon-based search pattern for fa st block motion estimation IEEE Trans Circuits Syst Vide o Technol., vol. 12, no. 5, May 2002 


  9 Italy, in 2008. In 2002 she joined the Istituto per il Rilevamento Elettromagnetico dell\222Ambiente \(IREA Institute of the Italian National Research Council \(CNR Napoli, where she currently holds a Researcher Position She was a Visiting Research in 2004 at the German Aerospace Centre \(DLR\ and in 2007 at the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Division of Marine Geology and Geophysics, University of Miami USA\. Her research interests concern the differential SAR interferometry data processing and applications for the monitoring of surface displacements, such as those produced by subsidence, volcano activity and earthquakes   


  10  


Additionally, there are traditional consequences like IT investment losses, and given the magnitude of systems put in place in these kinds of organizations, they encounter the loss of a lot of money and effort when a project fails to deliver its promises Similarly, there are reputation damages which are also a nasty consequence to such large organizations for example, at a revenue authority if the system that deals with customs clearance or tax payments have some problems and there is no adequate governance that ensures the timely recovery or alternative solution this will be in the news the following day. Knowing the problems and associated consequences will assist the IT decision makers in prioritizing activities and solutions for effective IT governance and consequently the improvement in the public service delivery  6. Conclusions In this paper, based on the analysis of five public organizations, we have described IT Governance current practices, problems encountered and the consequences in the public sector in a developing country. The IT Governance mechanisms, together with key focus and decision areas provided the means for a thorough investigation into the studied environment. The combination of these approaches was found to be useful in uncovering practices of interest in this environment, where on one hand IT resources are scarce and its development and management are relatively less established and on the other hand the use of ICT in providing public services is gaining momentum and several efforts are being made to carry it out successfully. The analysis of IT Governance practices in the studied organizations indicate diverse practices in relation to structures processes and relational mechanisms with notable weakness in the processes where, in contrast with developed world, best practices are rarely applied in most of them It was also noted that improvement on these practices are being done continually, not as a specific IT Governance project but rather as normal improvement to increase the IT contribution to the organizational goals. The analysis revealed a number of problems and their consequences in the organizations. The problems we found are categorized in the IT Governance key focus areas, and are including the lack of a specific IT strategic plan in most of them; lack of business people ownership in ITenabled projects; inadequate or absent ICT policies and procedures; lack of IT Governance awareness and guidelines; inadequate follow-up and enforcement mechanisms; and lack of clear roles, responsibilities and accountability. Others problems found are a weak risk-based approach in designing and operating IT related services; attracting and sustaining skilled and competent IT personnel; inadequate budget for required IT resources; fragmented IT initiatives with a loss of synergies and exploitation of the economies of scale; high cost of IT with lower business value; and weak measures of IT performance and value to business In addition, to the problems and challenges in the public sector, several consequences that can be detrimental to the efforts towards effective IT Governance and hence improvements in the public service delivery were also revealed. The most common ones include the difficulty of holding individuals accountable for their results; ad-hoc solutions due to user and management frustrations; and traditional consequences like IT investment losses and damage to the reputation of the organization in question  References  T GI En terpris e Value: Gov e rn a n ce of IT Investments, The Val IT Framework, 2006. Retrieved from  www.itgi.org   P e terson R. R., In teg r ation Strateg ie s an d T a ctics for IT Governance, In W. Van Grembergen \(Ed Strategies for Information Technology Governance Hershey, PA: Idea Group Publishing, 2003   arav adi C  S  D i g i tal repos itories  f o r egovernment, E-Government, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2005 pp.205-218   Gre m berg e n W., De Haes S Gulden tops   E. Structures, processes and relational mechanisms for IT governance. In Van Grembergen W. \(Ed Strategies for Information Technology Governance Hershey, PA: Idea Group Publishing, 2003   e ill, P    Ross, J  W  IT Gov e rn an ce Ho w T op Performers Manage IT Decision Rights for Superior Results, Harvard Business School Press, 2004   T a n zan ia Nation al IC T  P o licy  A v ai lable at  www.tanzania.go.tz/pdf/ictpolicy.pdf, 2003. Last accessed, June 2008   dou V  eG o v e rnm ent for D e v e l opi n g  C oun t r i e s  Opportunities and Challenges. The Electronic Journal on IS in Developing Countries \(EJISDC\, 2004  8  B a ka r i  J  B  A ho l i s t i c  A p p r o a c h fo r M a na gi ng I C T  Security in Non-Commercial Organizations: A case in a developing country, Doctoral Thesis, Stockholm University, Stockholm, 2007  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 


 Grem berg e n W  De Haes S. I m ple m e n ti ng Information Technology Governance: Models Practices and Cases. IGI Publishing, 2008   T G I. Boa rd b r ief i ng on  IT g o v e rn an ce \(2 nd ed 2003.  Retrieved from www.itgi.org on May 2008   T R A  A bout T a n zan ia Rev e nu e Au t h orit y  T R A   and related statistics in the case study, www.tra.go.tz 2008. Last accessed May 2008   MS D. A bou t Medical S t ores Departm e n t MS D   and related statistics in the case study, www.msd.or.tz 2008. Last accessed, May 2008   PMOR AL G A bou t Prim e Minis t er s Office Regional Authority and Local Government \(PMORALG\d related statistics in the case study www.pmoralg.go.tz, 2008, Last accessed May 2008   O P SM. A bou t P r eside n t O f f i ce, P u blic Services  Management \(PO-PSM\d related statistics in the case study, www.utumishi.go.tz, 2008. Accessed 2008   o F E A 2008 A bou t  Mi n i s t r y of Fi n a n c e an d  Economic Affairs \(MoFEA\d related statistics in the case study, www.mof.go.tz. Last accessed May 2008   ers, Mich ae l D. "Qu alitat iv e Researc h i n  Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 2 1997, pp. 241-242    R   C a s e  S t u d y res e arch des i g n an d m e t h ods   third edition. Sage Publications, 2003   Peters on R  R  C r afting I T Gov e rn an ce f o r toda y s turbulent environment, Information Systems Management, Vol. 21 No.4, 2004, pp.7-21  19 N f uka E  N   R u s u  L  M a na ge me n t o f I T enabled change in a public organization in Tanzania Int. J. Information Systems and Change Management Vol.2, No.4, 2007, pp. 334-349, Inderscience Publishers  20 O G C B e s t M a n a g e m e n t P r a c t i c e i n I T S e r v i c e  Management \(ITIL\ and Project Management PRINCE2\008, retrieved from www.bestmanagement-practice.com on August, 2008   R Norton D T h e balan ced s c orecard Measures that drive performance. Harvard Business Review, 1992, 70\(1\71-79   a y a y a S  G  A  s t u d y  of t h e poten tia l u s a g e o f  ICT \(E-government\ in improving efficiency and effectiveness of executive functions of the government including delivery of Public Services Case of Tanzania. A dissertation for degree of MEM at UDSM, 2003   u pan g k a t, S  H R a hm a t B S e m b iring J. IT  Governance for Developing Countries. School of Electrical Engineering and Informatics, Institute of Technology Bandung. Engage Indonesia, 2006   T GI PWC  IT Gov e rn an ce Gl obal St at us Report, 2006. Retrieved from www.itgi.org   T G I  PWC  I T Go v e rn a n ce Global S t at us Report, 2008. Retrieved from www.itgi.org   i bbers P.M.A P e ters o n  R  R P a rk er, M.M Designing IT governance processes: Diagnosing contemporary practices and competing theories Proceedings of the 35 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS   e, R  19 95  T h e art of cas e res e arch  Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 12 


The characterization of motion imagery video traffic involved the stochastic characterization of I P B-frames of MPEG-4 sequences Several Matlab tools were developed to support video analyses wherein ISS and Shuttle specific mission video sequences were used to derive parameters for the associated model A general stochastic model was derived for data telemetry enabling broad parametric applicability ranging among constant bit stream periodic or bursty patterns This same general model through proper selection of parameters may also be used to model command data flow traffic Matlab programs were developed to enable each of the traffic types above to be synthesized and saved into a file for use by SCaN simulation for performance analyses Example flows were generated for a LEO case and an Ascent case and results illustrated using the SCaN Simulator These analyses show the need for such traffic models to determine packet loss including speech intelligibility and latency arising from both statistical multiplexing and potential use of DiffServ prioritization techniques when peak offered loads may undergo transient overload conditions 7 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration REFERENCES 1 Esther Jennings and David Heckman Architecture Modeling and Performance Characterization of Space Communications and Navigation SCaN Network using MACHETE submitted to 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings March 1-8 2008 2 Michael Hammer and James Champy Reengineering the Corporation New York Harper Business 1993 3 G Edward Bryan Not All Programmers Are Created Equal 1994 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings February 5-12 1994 4 Voice Activity Detection Using Generalized Gamma Distribution in Advances in Artificial Intelligence part of the series Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 3955 2006 5 Athina Markopoulou Fouad Tobagi and Mansour Karam Assessment of VoIP quality over Internet backbones In Proceedings of INFOCOM 2002 6 John Daigle and Joseph Langford Models for Analysis of Packet Voice Communications Systems IEEE JSAC SAC-4 6 1986 7 Harold Stem and Kim-Kwok Wong Modeling the on-off patterns in conversational speech including short silence gaps and the effects of interaction between speaking parties Vehicular Technology Conference 1994 8 0 Rose Statistical Properties of MPEG video traffic and their impact on traffic modeling in ATM systems Institute of Computer Science Report 101 University of Wurzburg 1995 BIOGRAPHY Tudor Stoenescu received a BS in Electrical Engineering  and an MS in Mathematics from North Dakota State University in 1999 and a MSE and PhD in  Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from University of Michigan in 2001 and 2004 respectively After receiving his PhD Dr Stoenescu accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position in Information Science and Technology at California Institute of Technology In 2006 Dr Stoenescu joined the Telecommunications Architecture Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory Dr Stoenescu's current research interests lie 13 


in the areas of resource allocation in networks mechanism design dynamic scheduling and decision processes stochastic control and optimization Loren Clare is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory He obtained the Ph.D in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983 His research interests include wireless communications protocols self-organizing systems network systems design modeling and analysis and distributed control systems Prior to joining JPL in May 2000 he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks satellite networking and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation 14 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


