COLLECTIVE INTELLIGENCE IN DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS AND SEMANTIC DATA VISUALIZATION Sumalatha.M.R, Abishek Ravi, Aravind.M, Prasanna.N Department of Information Technology Madras Institute of Technology, Anna University, Chromepet, Chennai-44 E-mail rsumalatha@yahoo.com   Abstract  In the era of monumental development in all spheres of technology, the repository of huge amounts of raw data is but a necessity. Also with increasing availability of storage space, this factor is not a big problem. Hence instead of tackling issues related to reducing the amount of data to be stored, there is bigger need to implement the creation of a knowledge base and hence create semantic data visualization The work discussed presents an approach to integrate expert knowledge all along the data mining process in a coherent and uniform manner. A collective intelligence system plays a central role in this approach. The work primarily aims at converting the presence of large amounts of raw source data into a knowledge base and collective framework Heterogeneous web sources have been taken into consideration, which act as containers for the raw data source. Data visualization is the second major functionality Taking into consideration the patterns mined, the onus is on the developer to present the mined patterns in a format that is most appealing to the end-user. Creation of such data visualizations requires various dimensions of the pattern to be understood. The estimated end product creates visualization from the knowledge base created from heterogeneous web sources  KEY WORDS  Collective Intelligence, Apriori, Clusters, Semantic Visualization, Ontology  1 INTRODUCTION Collective intelligence is a form of intelligence that emerges from the collaboration and competition of many individuals  Knowledge that can be derived from a domain of various voting systems has the capacity for many individual unique perspectives to combine and converge. This convergence can be based on an assumption that the voting systems in use are uninformed. These systems are random to an extent. Knowledge can be obtained by filtering patterns from a decision based process which results in a well informed consensus. Ontology is then framed from this existing knowledge framework and is used as a structure in artificial   intelligence functions. Semantic data visualization and collective intelligence form the heart of the project A Collective Intelligence Information System consists of Instances Instances are the basic, "ground level" components of the system. Strictly speaking, the system need not include any instances, but one of the general purposes of ontology is to provide a means of classifying individuals, even if those individuals are not explicitly part of the ontology  Classes Ontology varies on whether classes can contain other classes, whether a class can belong to itself, or whether there is a universal class  Properties Objects in the ontology can be described by assigning values to their properties. Each property has at least a name and a value, and is used to store information that is specific to the object it is attached to  Relations An important use of attributes is to describe the relationships between objects in the ontology. Typically a relation is a property whose value is another object in the ontology  Events Events in a system play an important role in describing the nature, timing and effects of interaction between various objects Knowledge discovery from data is a process that aims to extract potentially useful knowledge hidden in large data sets However, it remains a crucial issue to elicit relevant models according domain expert knowledge. The KEOPS approach is based on a method which refers to expert knowledge all along a knowledge extraction process. Furthermore, KEOPS uses a part-way interestingness measure between objective and subjective measure in order to evaluate models relevance according to expert knowledge  The work has been proposed by Laurent Brisson and Martine Collar   It is more accurate to state that the approach has parameters that must  be tuned. When surveying the literature on this topic, it was noted that while there are many techniques for automatically tuning parameters, many of these techniques themselves have parameters, possibly resulting in an infinite regression. An additional problem of parameter-laden algorithms is that they make it difficult to reproduce published experimental results and to understand the contribution of a proposed algorithm These perils of parameter laden algorithms have been proposed by Eamonn Keogh  T h e s e pe r i l s  ha v e be e n de a l t  with accordingly in the proposed system of work  
First International Conference on Emerging Trends in Engineering and Technology 978-0-7695-3267-7/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICETET.2008.183 292 


The proposed work aims at creating a knowledge base across heterogeneous web sources. The base hence created will perform the functions of a Recommendation System  Given a system of heterogeneous web sources the work first creates a knowledge base by mapping various datasets distributed geographically and reduces the sets to gain relevant patterns. Based on the association rules gathered from patterns a recommendation system is created. Finally the knowledge gathered from patterns is presented to the end user after implementation of the data visualization module. A method used to conserve bandwidth is the Compression Based Dissimilarity model. The dissimilarity model is described as follows Given two strings x and y the Compression based Dissimilarity Model is defined as follows CDM\(x, y\    C \(xy\ \(C\(x\ C\(y When two strings x and y are not related the CDM value is close to 1 and smaller than 1 by a larger value when x and y are related. But it is to be noted that CDM\(x, x\ is not zero  2. THE COLLECTIVE INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM 2.1 Implementation Issues For highly complex data with mutual relationships, the derived patterns tend to be complex. Thus implementation challenges are as follows  1. The patterns described by the existing knowledge extraction algorithms are still too abstract for general understanding. A pattern that is misinterpreted is of great danger. For example many algorithms do not distinguish between causality and cooccurrence. For an application that aims at finding the reason for a certain type of disease, there is a great difference between finding the origin of the disease and finding just an additional symptom. Developing systems which derive understandable patterns and making already derived patterns understandable is a challenge 2. As stated, current algorithms focus on a limited set of standard patterns. Deriving these patterns often does not yield a direct and complete solution to many problems Furthermore, with an increasing complexity of the analyzed data, it is likely that the derived patterns will increase in complexity as well. Thus, the challenge lies in finding richer patterns 3. The final challenge arises when working with future patterns due to the increased number of valid patterns Therefore, the number of potentially valid patterns will be too large to be handled by a human user, without a system organizing the results. Hence future systems deal with providing a platform for pattern exploration where users can browse for knowledge on a personalized basis 4 Storing Frequent Item-sets using tries is another major issue. In existing algorithms frequent item-sets that are not needed by the algorithm can be written to the disk, and memory can be freed. Frequent items of size y 001 only are needed for the candidate generation of  y\001 0011  item-sets, and later they are not used. Hence there is need for memory conservation  To conclude, systems should generate a large variety of well understandable patterns. Due to variations in the parameterizations, the number of possibly meaningful and useful patterns will dramatically increase and thus, an important aspect is managing and visualizing these patterns    Figure 2.1: Class Diagram for Implementation Issues  2.2 Overview of the proposed Collective Intelligence Architecture In the knowledge extraction and data visualization framework several sub modules like, implementation of distributed web sources, pattern mining in the compressed knowledge base, implementation of compression algorithms and creation of data visualization exist  2.2.1 Implementation of distributed web sources  Distributed web sources provide the user an advantage of having to distribute data geographically. Apart from data, even processes are distributed geographically thereby, making the execution process faster and easier from the resource requirement point of view. Hadoop distributed file system \(HDFS\ clusters are used to create heterogeneous web sources 2.2.2 Pattern mining in the compressed knowledge base  Form the compressed knowledge base that contains various related item sets from the given dataset, various patterns have to be extracted and irrelevant patterns have to be pruned. Various queries with and without parameters have be executed to implement this module. Parameter-light algorithms tend to produce results of higher accuracy 2.2.3 Implementation of compression algorithms  In order to conserve the bandwidth and relax certain other constraints the compression is implemented using runlength encoding. From here the dissimilarity and similarity measures are calculated 
293 


2.2.4 Implementation of trie-based apriori approach Once the trie data structure is constructed as per requirements the dataset and knowledge base are processed. Frequent items sets are scanned to generate various patterns. A recommendation system is created based on the Pearson and Euclidean mathematical models 2.2.5 Creation of data visualization The result set is parsed and an intermediate representation in the form of graphs and charts is created. The intermediate result is translated to a visualization structure. The visualization structure is classified based on recommendations created  3 System Architecture HDFS has master/slave architecture. An HDFS cluster consists of a single Namenode a master server that manages the file system namespace and regulates access to files by clients. In addition, there are a number of Datanodes  usually one per node in the cluster, which manage storage attached to the nodes that they run on. HDFS exposes a file system namespace and allows user data to be stored in files Internally, a file is split into one or more blocks and these blocks are stored in a set of Datanodes. The Namenode executes file system namespace operations like opening closing, and renaming files and directories. It also determines the mapping of blocks to Datanodes. The Datanodes are responsible for serving read and write requests from the file system’s clients. The Datanodes also perform block creation deletion, and replication upon instruction from the Namenode  Hence is a brief description of system architecture. The same architecture will be deployed later with respect to an application which will bring out practical and commercial purposes involved in implementing the work proposed. The architecture helps in distributing processes across a group of systems NAME NODE METADATA CLIENT REPLICATION BLOCK DATA NODES BLACK OPERATIONS READ METADATA OPERATIONS WRITE RACK 1 RACK 2 CLIENT NAME NODE METADATA CLIENT REPLICATION BLOCK DATA NODES BLACK OPERATIONS READ METADATA OPERATIONS WRITE RACK 1 RACK 2 CLIENT  Figure 3.1:  System architecture 4 Real Time Analysis and Application e-Business \(electronic business\, is the conduct of business on the Internet, not only buying and selling but also servicing customers and collaborating with business partners Today, major corporations are rethinking their businesses in terms of the Internet and its new culture and capabilities Companies are using the Web to buy parts and supplies from other companies, to collaborate on sales promotions, and to do joint research. Exploiting the convenience, availability, and world-wide reach of the Internet, is the trend of recent times The following are the challenges or limitations in the eBusiness domain presently Complex parameters During various analysis operations like business process intelligence or customer relationship management queries include with them complex parameters that are hard to parse and many times they tend to produce malicious results because of their false and complex nature Integration into complete solution Using various techniques like knowledge extraction and analytical processing of multidimensional data, intermediate results should be deciphered into complete solutions in order to complete the analytical process The above challenges can be overcome by using the following solutions Text categorization The aim of this stage is to extract content and using data build topic hierarchy. Once, a hierarchy is built it becomes easier to track customer operations and hence analyze the customer behavior. Analysis operations performed are Extraction of key words and phrases, Transformation of documents and query log records into vectors, Creation of clusters hierarchically, labeling each cluster with significant words, phrases, normalization Catalog creation and service discovery This stage aims to achieve  Attribute extraction and Data formulation. Once a document structure is recognized attribute extraction and data formulation become easier Business Process Intelligence The goal of this stage is to improve the quality of business services and processes. The recommendation system by providing apt and complete recommendations improves the quality of the system  4.1 Application Oriented Architecture  Architecture for the recommendation system based on the collective intelligence system is described as follows The recommendation system is created to test the real-time application and feasibility of collective intelligence system 4.1.1 Proposed Methodology The proposed methodology operates on a distributed file system environment based on the SOAP \(Service oriented architecture protocol\ ontology. The triangular ontology deals with service registry, service provision and remote method invocation. Hadoop clusters are used for this purpose 
294 


4.1.2 User Layer Customer/Buyer Domain: The customer/buyer domain consists of various customers and buyers who represent the clients of the architecture. A customer or buyer is any remote device seeking to analyze various data sets based on certain queries. The customer seeks access to a remote service on the service domain that analyses datasets. These remote services have direct access to a remote database Hence the customers represented in this domain have indirect access to a remote database with service domain activity as an intermediary stage  4.1.3 Collective Intelligence Layer Application Server Proxy The application server proxy performs the function of a routing table. The customer in the user layer searches for various services that are available on the distributed file system. While doing so, the first component a customer’s service query will approach is the application server proxy. The application server proxy contains a table or list of various services available on the distributed file system. Hence all the analysis services have to first register themselves with the application proxy server in order for the customer to access these services. When a service wanted by the customer is available on the service domain, the proxy deploys a remote server where this service is available to the customer  Service Domain The service domain mainly consists of one primary service, namely the recommendation system The recommendation system used here deals with recommending items for users given a rated and uninformed data set. That is, the data set that serves as the base or input will contain a list of item sets that are ranked by users using the item set. The final output will be an intelligent recommendation of unused item sets for a particular user. The item sets can be any product like books, movies, gadgets services, techniques etc. based on the real time dataset provided as input Semantic Data Visualizer The output of the analysis service machines needs to be presented in a graphical understandable and user-friendly manner to the end user who is the customer or buyer. The semantic data visualizer involves a semantic index that is used in tandem with the analytical output. The semantic parameters involved vary with each analysis. Graphs and charts are created as intermediate results \(IR\. The IR is then used to map the output onto predetermined visualization structures 4.1.4 Data Layer The data layer is the core and heart of the entire architecture. The layer has one main component: the remote data set. The remote data set is a set of item sets that are linked to each other by way of ratings. The item sets consist of customer identities and various other e-Business customer fields like products purchased, time logs, costs incurred billing information and other logs. The analysis service provider servers have independent direct access to this remote data set  5 Algorithms  The collective intelligence system hence proposed uses a platter of assorted algorithms and following are the algorithms that are being put into use in the collective intelligence system  5.1 Compression based dissimilarity measure     5.2 Frequent Pattern mining  Function dist = cdm\(a,b Save a.txta–ascii    Zip\(’a.zip’, ’a.txt    A_file = dir\(’a.zip    Save b.txt b –ascii    Zip\(’b.zip’, ’b.txt    B_file = dir\(’b.zip    A_n_b = [a       Save a_n_b.txt a_n_b –ascii   Zip\(’a_n_b.zip’, ’a_n_b.txt   A_n_b_file = dir \(’a_n_b.zip   Dist = a_n_b_file.bytes / \(a_file.bytes + b_file.bytes Return Dist End 1. Select random sample, S, from transaction data set D 2. Split the random sample \(S\ into subset \(or partitions\, so each subset size is in accordance with computer memory 3. Read one subset 4. Store all the candidate 1-itemsets in the subset 5. Count the number of instances of each 1-itemsets to compose the candidate set called C1 6. Delete least frequent candidate 1-items to generate a large item set list called L1 7. Join L1 with itself to create candidate 2-itemsets C2. C2 consists of all combinations of 2-itemsets and check for the property that states ‘all nonempty subsets of frequent itemsets must also be frequent 
295 


   Figure 4.1: e-Business Architecture                        5.3 Mapping & reducing algorithm                   APPLICATION SERVER PROXY   Service ServiceID Remote Address    SEMANTIC DATA VISUALIZER    Analyzer Charts Graphs Visualization Structures   The Recommendation System Service Domain    I N T E R N E T User Layer Collective Intelligence Layer Data Layer 8. Recursively perform steps 4 to 6 with the addition of an item-set every pass, until some L k becomes empty which means that the join operation \(step 6\ is not possible 9. Combine all frequent L n item-sets into one list called local frequent item-sets \(LL p\ for the given partition where n=1, 2 … K 10. Recursively perform steps 2 to 8 for each partition 11. Combine all LL p to generate global candidate itemsets \(LG 12. Scan the whole transactional database to count the number of occurrences of each candidate K-item-set in LG 13. Delete least frequent candidate K-items to generate global frequent item-set in the data set \(all subsets  Function map \(string key, string value key: document name  value: document contents  For each word w in value  Emit-intermediate \(w, “1  Function reduce \(string key, iterator values  key: a word  values: a list of counts result=0  For each v in values  result+= parseint \(v  emit \(string \(result 
296 


 6 Results and graphs  The following are the two sections in which a few results have been inferred from the graphs plotted 6.1Construction and destruction time for stored filtered transactions Primarily no difference is observed when data sets are too small, as seen in Fig 6.1. However, the sorted lists tend to slow down as data set grows. RB-trees are always faster than tries, but the difference is not significant. In support count, each filtered transaction has to be visited to determine the contained candidates. If transactions are stored in a sorted list, then going through the elements is a very fast operation In the case of RB-trees and trie, this operation is slower, since a tree has to be traversed. Hence a sorted list is used despite the slowness during large data sets, due to easy traversal options  Fig 6.1: Time Vs Threshold  6.2 Writing frequent item-sets to disk The fastest results are obtained if frequent item-sets are not stored in memory but written to disk in the candidate generation process, as seen in Fig 6.2. In cases of determining small and medium sized candidates most edges lead to leaves hence removing other edges does not accelerate the algorithm too much. Hence, the memory needs can be significantly reduced if frequent item-sets are not stored in memory Consequently if frequent item-sets are needed to determine valid association rules and memory consumption is an important factor, then it is useful to write frequent item-sets to disk and read them back when the association rule discovery phase starts   7 Conclusion and future implementation The proposed collective intelligence system is hence implemented and its applications are tested using the real-time recommendation system in an e-business background. The    Fig 6.2: Time Vs Threshold recommendations hence created based on collective intelligence are accurate to a greater extent. The collective intelligence system can be extended in lines of semantic web searching to provide personalized results and optimized link retrievals. Furthermore, a mechanism or structure can be created to improve on the performance of sorted lists in case of large data sets to decrease the time complexity of creation of the filtered transactions from the data set  REFERENCES 1 Ea m o n n K e o g h  S t ef a n o Lo n a r d i Li Wei  Compression Based Data Mining of Sequential Data Springer, March 2007  e dr o D o m i n g o s   Towards Knowledge rich data mining  Springer, April 2007  r e g o r y P i a t e t s k i S h a p i r o   Data Mining and knowledge discovery from 1996-2005”, Springer, January 2007 4 La u r en t B r i s s o n  an d M a r t in e C o l l ar d   An Ontology Driven data mining process, The KEOPS approach November 2006  a ur e n t B r i s s o n  Knowledge extraction using a conceptual information system ODBIS Workshop in VLDB Conference, Seoul, 2006 6 A b r a h a m B e r n s t e i n  F o s t e r P r o v o s t, a n d S h aw n d r a H ill   Toward intelligent assistance for a data mining process: An ontology-based approach for cost-sensitive classification  IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 2005 7 B a r o n c h e ll i A  C a g l io ti E  L o r e to V   Artificial sequences and complexity measures J. Stat. Mech: Theory and Exp 2005 8  J e f f e r y D e an  S a n j ay G h e m aw at  MapReduce :Simplified  Data Processing on Large Clusters OSDI'04, San Francisco CA, December, 2004 
297 


an in-field operated bearing The additional analysis has also demonstrated the potential for diagnosis of the impending failure Both vibration and electrostatic WSS data indicate was an accelerated failure test a significantly earlier detection may be achieved from the vibration and electrostatic sensors increasing the time from detection to failure by approximately 18 hours i.e from 9 hours to 27 hours It should be noted that this a failure in the bearing outer a problem with the rolling elements As both race damage it would be expected that this is the a reasoning network to enable the nature and severity of the predicted faults to be automatically determined Figure 9 Post-test Condition of Failed Bearing Outer Race Figure 10 Post-test Condition of Failed Bearing Rolling Elements 7 U 0 n 0 az 0 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 22 27 32 37 42 47 52 Time hours Figure 8 Vibration Sensor OR Contribution Values For the vibration data the significant contribution values sensor also detects n LA._ Q _ 17 race The electrostatic race Figure 9 and several of the rolling elements suffered material loss more significant of the two faults Both these faults and the hence the diagnosis sensors indicate the outer as well Figure 10 Although not undertaken for the work presented it is envisaged that this type of information could be fed into so the time to failure will be significantly reduced compared to are corroborated in the post-test tear down and inspection of the bearing There is significant damage to the outer come from the OR component from 37 hours onwards Figure 8 The Al based analysis of the data has shown that 


sensor outputs In real world applications the approach may be scaled up to produce diagnostic information at equipment sub-system level a corroborated diagnostic To put this into context ProDAPS has an advanced probabilistic reasoning engine with unique capabilities for scaling to large tasks and representing sophisticated statistical models The reasoning engine is used to provide more information about an anomalous event such as the likely cause and it can assist with difficult decisions by quantifying the cost and benefits of different actions such as maintenance Reasoning can be inferencing with a-priori knowledge or case-based by matching to previous cases with similar symptoms The reasoning engine is able to combine the strengths of data driven modelling knowledge derived from experience with a-priori knowledge This paper has explained a data driven analysis technique for detecting an abnormal event that gives warning of an impending failure and extracts the processed sensor features contributing to the anomaly The reasoning engine can use a-priori knowledge about the response of these features to different failure modes to predict the type of failure The same procedure but using different anomaly modelling and contribution scoring of input features is currently being applied to Health and Usage Monitoring System HUMS vibration data collected from helicopters operating in the North Sea To date ProDAPS has highlighted many events not seen by the conventional HUMS threshold detection analysis Models for reasoning about the anomaly outputs are currently being developed and these reasoning models will have the task of distinguishing the type of fault e.g mechanical component or instrument and the nature diagnostic of the failure e.g shaft imbalance A similar architecture is being implemented for processing electrostatic debris detection data on the GE F136 engine for the Joint Strike Fighter JSF aircraft efficiency maximized use of equipment reduced logistic footprint optimized maintenance decision support etc are to be realized then continued development of advanced analysis techniques such as those discussed herein are essential REFERENCES 1 Rob Callan and Brian Larder The implementation of advanced diagnostic and prognostic concepts Practical tools for effective diagnostic and prognostic health management IEEE Aerospace Conference Big Sky Montana 2003 ISBN 0-7803-7652-8 2 Rob Callan Brian Larder and John Sandiford An Integrated Approach to the Development of an Intelligent Prognostic Health Management System IEEE Aerospace Conference Big Sky Montana 2006 ISBN 0-7803-9546-8 3 H E G Powrie R J K Wood T J Harvey L Wang and S Morris Electrostatic charge generation associated with machinery component degradation IEEE Aerospace Conference Big Sky Montana 2002 ISBN 0-7803-7232-8 4 T J Harvey R J K Wood and H E G Powrie Electrostatic wear monitoring of rolling element bearings Wear Volume 263 Issues 7-12 10 September 2007 Pages 1492-1501 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS CONCLUSIONS The results presented in this paper have shown that Al based analysis techniques have sensor data with and without the additional analysis is clearly highlighted The diagnostic results presented relate to sub-components of the bearing It is recognized that this level of diagnostic would generally be too detailed for most fielded applications the purpose of the current approach is to show that as improved 8 The authors would like to thank all those involved in setting up and running the bearing rig tests which provided the data for the current analysis and also those involved in developing the ProDAPS toolset that has been used to analyse the data BIOGRAPHY Rob Callan is a technical fellow at GE Aviation Information Systems He holds a BSc in Mechanical Engineering and a PhD in Artificial Intelligence Rob has over 20 years experience in Al with 11 of these spent in aerospace applications During the past 8 years he has been technical lead for the development and application of Al techniques for PHM The techniques concern the extraction of information from data and span the PHM functional layers from state detection to decision support Capabilities are state-of-art in the areas of anomaly detection reasoning  fusion and decision support These techniques are now being applied to helicopter health management and military engine diagnostics  prognostics Rob has published many academic papers and two textbooks on Al can be achieved from different as appropriate This paper has presented work in progress however it is evident that if operational goals such a significant role to play in optimization of equipment management Traditional feature extraction data from vibration and electrostatic sensors have been exploited to provide prognostic i.e increased time from detection to failure and diagnostic information i.e determine the nature and possibly severity of the impending failure The difference in the performance of the 


Honor Powrie is a Technology Manager at GE Aviation Information Systems specializing in the application of electrostatic sensors for condition monitoring She has a wide interest in condition monitoring practices including the fusion of multiple data sets to improve fault diagnosis and prognosis Honor holds a BSc in Physics and a PhD in Aeronautical Engineering 9 


for the Rock Abrasion Tool RAT and science support for Mission Operations on the Mars 03 mission Currently Dr Anderson is the Investigation Scientist for the Sample Acquistion  Sample Processing and Handling subsystem on the Mars Science Laboratory He works closely with the FIDO rover team and is presently the Science Team lead on the Onboard Autonomous Science Investigation System OASIS project Dr Anderson's research is centered on unraveling the geologic history of Mars Brian Bue a Research Programmer in the Machine Learning and Instrument Autonomy group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory he is now working on his Ph.D in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Rice University He received his M.S in Computer Science at Purdue University and a B.S in Computer Science and a B.A in Mathematics from Augsburg College in Minneapolis MN His research interests include knowledge-based vision and image processing machine learning pattern recognition scientific visualization remote sensing and applications in planetary science andphysics Michele Judd P.E OASIS Research Manager and senior technical staff member of JPL's Science Division Ms Judd received her B.S in Petroleum Engineering from Stanford University and her M.L.A from Southern Methodist University She has been the Technical Task Manager of the QuakeSim Project and the SERVOGrid Project She has twice chaired the JPL Research and Technology Development Poster Session A nationally certified Quality Manager and licensed Professional Engineer Ms Judd has over 20 years of experience in project management both within JPL andfor Mobil Oil 11 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


 12 7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This research task started with an all-FORTRAN implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm converted it to C code, and developed a number of H W/SW systems on the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA The execution ti me of the all software C implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm was recorded and used for comparison as a base case Two software-based optimizations were applied that reduced the executi on time by more than 4.5x These included modifying the cod e to use all single-precision math library functions no n-ANSI when dealing with single-precision data and utilizi ng the IBM Performance Libraries  Perflib  to improve the speed of all single and double-precision arithmetic The idea of using a DP-only Perflib was introduced and then used in conjunction with the single-precision APU-FPU to fu rther improve system performance The bulk of the research dealt with looking into ha rdwarebased improvements to the FTIR spectrometry system  These included the Xilinx APU-FPU, and a single-pre cision dot-product co-processor The APU-FPU delivered significant speedup for all single-precision floati ng-point operations The dot-product co-processor although ineffective in the FTIR spectrometry system due to poor spatial locality of the data, showed nearly a 2x im provement over the APU-FPU when working with smaller, sequent ially accessed data sets Furthermore it was implemented  as a load/store-based APU-connected FCM thus establishin g a reference for creating similar APU co-processors T he design of a non-system-bused CPU-coupled co-process or is frequently overlooked in design guides yet it is a  very effective way to offload software routines to hardw are implementation The ML410 development board on which all of this w ork was conducted, hosts the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA contain ing two PPC405 processors This research task focused o n optimizing the performance of the FTIR spectrometry  algorithm on a single PPC405 core, however, the des ign can be extended to utilize both available cores. Figure 16 on the following page shows a dual-core design that can be  implemented on the ML410 board The two PPC405 processors each have dedicated PLB interfaces but s hare a common OPB. On the common OPB, the processors need to negotiate access to the RS232 UART and SystemACE CF  controller. This negotiation can be done through du al-ported shared BRAM accessible by each processor from thei r respective PLB. The ML410 board has two external me mory interfaces that are both utilized in this concept PPC405 CPU0 uses the DDR2 DIMM 256 Mbytes while PPC405 CPU1 utilizes the DDR on-board component memory 64  Mbytes\. Each of the processors has some dedicated on-chip memory OCM connected through OCM interface The instruction side OCM is particularly necessary so e ach processor can store its own boot code in its own on chip memory as booting both processors from external mem ory may not be possible Both processors have their own FPUs connected on dedicated FCB interfaces Since the processing of individual interferograms is a comple tely independent task an up to 2x reduction in executio n time may be possible with a dual-core system However o ne bottleneck that may limit the speedup is negotiatin g access to the shared CF card controller Additional improvement to the overall performance o f the FTIR spectrometry system may be possible by rewriti ng the software in C. The automatic conversion from FORTRA N to C using f2c most likely does not produce optimal code, and it is certainly not appealing to read Some functio ns may also need to be rewritten with an optimized pattern  of data access This can help in cases such as the dot-prod uct coprocessor Further performance improvement may be achieved by trying a different compiler one that is specifical ly targeted for the embedded PPC405 processor A V2P performanc e study done at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center concluded that using the WindRiver Diab DCC 5.2 com piler provides a 38 performance increase over the GNU-GC C 3.4 compiler The comparison was based on running a  Dhrystone benchmark application on a 400 MHz PPC405 design The GNU-GCC compiler achieved 458 DMIPS while the WindRiver Diab DCC achieved 628 DMIPS as  reported by Xilinx\ [10   Implementing additional hardware co-processors may result in the further reduction of execution time Using t he dotproduct design as a reference the FFT function fo r example can be implemented in the hardware This w ill help in the spectrum computation component of the s oftware processing. It may be necessary to re-arrange the d ata access pattern for optimal co-processor performance to av oid the pitfall seen when deploying the dot-product core Finally, no embedded processing system is complete without an OS. Linux is a good choice and is supported by X ilinx in EDK It is important to first finalize the hardware  design prior to deploying the OS Support for the APU may be lacking in Linux and getting the OS to recognize th e hardware FPU may be a project in itself For the FTIR spectrometry algorithm this research task started the process of moving from an all software system to a mixed HW/SW implementation on the V4FX60 hybridFPGA In the best case a more than 8x speedup was achieved compared to the FTIR base system This implementation, although nearly 2x faster the V2P s ystem at NASA JPL still lags behind the current state-of-th e-art space processor  the BAE RAD750 However the marg in between the two was narrowed down significantly and with further research as suggested above will most lik ely be eliminated altogether Directly benefiting from the  work presented in this paper is a 3-year JPL technology 


 13 development task that will support the MATMOS on-bo ard processing implementation for a future flight i nstrument   Fig. 16 Dual-core concept targeting ML410 development boar d 


 14 R EFERENCES  1  D L Bekker Hardware and Software Optimization of Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry on HybridFPGAs  MS Thesis Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY August 2007 Available http://hdl.handle.net/1850/4805  2  P J Pingree J.-F L Blavier G C Toon and D  L Bekker An FPGA/SoC Approach to On-Board Data Processing  Enabling New Mars Science with Smart Payloads in IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  Big Sky MT March 2007 Available http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?isnu mber=4 144550&arnumber=4161501  3  S I Feldman D M Gay M W Maimone and N L Schryer, “A Fortran-to-C Converter,” Computing Scie nce Technical Report 149, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murra y Hill NJ March 22 1995 Available http://www.netlib.org/f2c/f2c.pdf  4  IBM PowerPC Embedded Processor Performance Libraries tech rep IBM Microelectronics Divisi on Hopewell Junction, NY, December 12 2003 5  Virtex-4 Data Sheet: DC and Switching Characterist ics Datasheet DS302 Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 27 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/publications/ds302.pdf  6  ML410 Embedded Development Platform  Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 6 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug085.pdf  7  G Toon J.-F Blavier M McAuley and A Kiely Advanced On-Board Science Data Processing System for a Mars-orbiting FTIR Spectrometer R&TD Task 01STCR  R.05.023.048 NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena, CA, 2005 8  APU Floating-Point Unit v3.0 product specificati on Xilinx Inc San Jose CA January 26 2007 Availa ble http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/ipcenter/data_sheet/ap u_fp u.pdf  9  PowerPC 405 Processor Block Reference Guide Xilinx Inc San Jose CA July 20 2005 Available www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug018.pdf  10  D. Petrick, “Analyzing the Xilinx Virtex-II Pro Pow erPC with the Dhrystone Benchmark Applications,” tech. r ep NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt Maryland Available http://klabs.org/DEI/Processor/PowerPC/v2pro_ppc_pe rf ormance_petrick.doc  B IOGRAPHY  Dmitriy Bekker has just completed his Masters Degree in Computer Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His areas of interest include FPGAs embedded systems digital signal processing and system architecture. He has coop  internship experience working at Brookhaven National Laboratory Syracuse Research Corporation NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He recen tly won in the 2006 IEEE Student Design Contest for his pro ject in autonomous vehicle navigation. He is a member of IE EE Dr Lukowiak is an assistant professor in the Computer Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His research interests are concentrated in the area of multidisciplinary projects that require modeling and hardware implementations FPGA and ASIC of data processing systems Dr Marcin Lukowi ak obtained his Ph.D in Technical Sciences from the P oznan University of Technology in October 2001 Muhammad Shaaban is an associate professor of computer engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology His research interests include high performance computing processor microarchitecture heterogeneous and reconfigurable computing Shaaban has a PhD in Computer Engineering from the University of Souther n California. He is a senior member of the IEEE Dr. Blavier first joined the JPLMkIV Team in August 1985 as a contractor from Ball Aerospace He participated in the MkIV campaigns in McMurdo Antarctica groundbased and from Punta Arenas Chile NASA DC-8 In late 1987, he started graduate work with Profs Delbouille and Dubois at the University  of Liège Belgium his research tasks included install ing the 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


