Institute of Manufacturing and controlling Wuhan University of Technology Wuhan P.R China dht_v@163.com;vvuliuvl'eblnaster\(fi]163.coln c!lchen\(fi]111ail vvhut.eclu.cn 
Abstract 
Design and Actualization of SOA-based Data Mining System Haitao Du Bo Zhang  Dingfang Chen 
Combining SOA Service-Oriented Architecture and the latest trend in date mining system development this paper explores the advantages of service-based Data Mining services and a framework for designing the data mining system based 
on SOA and also a way to set up this framework by the use of WCF Windows Communication Foundation is brought forward The detailed analysis into key technologies necessary for achieving this framework is made particularly in this paper These key technologies includes the implementation methods of the following services that are uploading big documents service data cleaning service data Mining algorithm service OLAP OnLine Analysis Processing service date management service based on metadata the 
realization of data warehouse service and OLAP service through programming with ADOMD.NET and how to make the solution of designing Data Mining system by using WCF 
Keywords SOA Data Mining WCF SQL SERVER 2005 1 Introduction These days the demand of companies for universal Business Intelligence is increasing dramatically The introduction of Business Intelligence system enables companies to better know the operating situation of business procedure and enhance the ability of 
departments to make decision at each level According to IDC estimation the market of BI and the application of it in financial performance and strategic management in Asia-Pacific Region excluding Japan will reach 724 million by 2010[1 Meanwhile enterprise information strategy is also turning to SOA in order to make better use of current IT resources adapt to more rapidly changes and larger development IDC predict that as companies are aware of combining IT and business procedure the use 
of SOA in Asia-Pacific Region will continue to grow up Chief Information Officers and IT management have already made it their priority to develop and obtain new products 978-1-4244-3291-2/08/$25.00 2512008 IEEE 338 integrate application programmes reinforce hardware infrastructures End-users also tell that applying SOA will result in optimized and clearer business procedure together with more effective management and supervision Taking the above two aspects into account this paper aims to design a kind of framework for 
Data Mining service and recommends a method of building Data Mining system with WCF 2 Brief introduction to Business Intelligence and SOA theory 2.1 Brief introduction to Business Intelligence and Data Mining BI Business Intelligence was initially put forward by Gartner Group in 1996 At that time it was defined as a collection of technologies and their applications which include Data Mining Data Duplicate and Recovery and are designed to help enterprises to make decisions As a key 
is a combination of Statistics database technology and Artificial Intelligence 1 2.2 Brief introduction to SOA theory W3C\(The World Wide Web Consortium defined SOA as a kind of application programme architecture in which each function is defined as independent 
technology of BI Data Mining is to extract potential unknown but very useful information modes or trends out of large database or data warehouse through a series of technologies that 
It 
is attached with clearly-defined interfaces and could be used in already defined order to form business proceedings SOA consists of three parts 3 Service Provider Service Broker and Service Requester respectively Service Provider offers individual service and responds to the requests for its service Service Broker registers Service Providers that have already issued catalogue them and provide searching function at the same time Service Requester looks for the service it needs through Service Broker and then uses the service 


3.2 Take prompt action To integrate business procedure and BI tools properly will certainly help users to act appropriately and react to information gained through integrative control panel report and warning system F or instance interactive control panel is able to display the conditions of KPI key Performance Indicators in which red lights indicate that some indicators haven't been fully met In the process of performing traditional manual business procedure BI tools can be used to help companies make wiser decisions For example they can choose proper suppliers through key business objectives such as lowering cost and raising customer satisfaction While in the situation where business procedure has already been automated to integrate BI and business procedure platform enables companies to analyze and make decisions as well as acquire necessary key business data 3.3 Ensure business objectives Fi Service Provider Bind FTPIHTTP/SMTP The framework for designing Data Mining system based on SOA Figure Figure 2   Sketch map of SOA 3 Advantages of structuring Data Mining system base on service Advantages of structuring Data Mining system base on service are mainly as follows 1 4 Service Requester 3.1 Better know the operating situation of business procedure It is a key objective for companies dedicated to SOA to analyze the performance and influence of performing business process in business process management Once business process data is captured in databases data warehouses or even in pure text documents BI tools are able to visit the data through control panel that can display information and further to integrate these data with others got from different channels This boosts a company's insight into business and enables the company to improve performance by proper decisions 4 The framework for designing Data Mining system based on SOA As Figure2 shows the system is constructed with four levels which are display level service level component level and data level each correspondent with user interface software service software component and entity class respectively Of the four levels software service is the main job to achieve the system According to the process of Data Mining it could be divided into four parts data uploading service data cleaning service mining Algorithm service and OLAP service 5 Interface User level interface Service Software level services Com pone Software nt level component Financial data analysis non-windows operating platform Entity class Data level 


Metadata management model HID Id NIO\(FK connection 5.2 Data warehouse and OLAP When setting up Data Mining service the definition of data warehouse could be achieved through ADOMD.NET 9.0 ADOMD.NET 9.0 is the component that SQL SERVER 2005 provides for users to visit Analysis Services service by coding sequentially operating data warehouse objectives and achieving targets of the operation of OLAP components The following function succeeds in visiting all dimensions of specific data warehouse with warehouse name and connection string as its parameters Component level mainly provides functional software components For example according to different data types in data cleaning service there are customer data cleaning components product data cleaning components and sale data cleaning components and so on 4.4 Data level Data level is a collection of entity class in Data Mining system Given different data types each data entity is defined according to users demand and configured by users according to business object in metadata-based manner 340 new    Public stringD GetDimensions\(string connectionString,string CubeName provides common Data Mining algorithms which are supported by SQL SERVER 2005 Analysis Services including Decision Tree Algorithm clustering algorithm Bayesian algorithms time-series algorithm related algorithms serial clustering algorithm neural network algorithms linear regression algorithm logistic regression algorithm and so on[6 4.2.4 OLAP services It provides users the service of on-line analyzing with data and enables them to analyse data by choosing customized Dimensions and measurement achieving drilling down and rolling up of data in order to find rules from the curves charts tables or dashboards 4.3 Component level 5 Key Technologies and Implementation Following technologies need paying attention to when implementing Data Mining system based SOA 5.1 Data management based on metadata Data Dictionary managing metadata consists of DataN odes and DataProperties DataN odes are linked into a tree as a whole through ParentId DataProperties are used to describe the properties of DataNodes in which entity and field are defined in correspondence with DataNodes NodeType is used to tell whether DataN odes is to describe a entity or the field of entity The data model of metadata management is shown as Figure 3 3 new string[rowcount for\(int i=O;i<rowcount;i NodeType PrODertyType Name value Figure  P...",s..-re..-I1tl..--.\267\267\267..-d  4.1 Interface level Interface level provides interface for users to interact with the system Since SOA is applied the interface is various depended on different clients called by data mining service As a result this level may include web browser E-mail systems windows operating platforms Linux operating platforms and non-windows operating platforms as well as non-Linux operating platforms 4.2 Service level 4.2.1 Data uploading services It enables users to upload self-defined documents which may include Excel documents flat documents like text documents Access files and data documents exported from DBMS 4.2.2 Data cleaning services It cleans the data uploaded by users through SSIS SQL Server Integration Services functional component that SQL SERVER 2005 provides and allows users to design the data warehouse to their needs 4.2.3 Data Mining algorithm services AdomdConnection AdomdConnectionO connection ConnectionString conn ec tion String connection open 0 int rowcount connection Cubes CubeName}.Dimensions Count strDimensions It 225 l  225.\225\225 


achieves WCF services like metadata model definition of date warehouse authorization and certification defmition of data mining procedure and so on 4 achieves metadata and entities logic S OM Web Seeurityl S OM Wei 18 0 M WO_OwClleotl contains all client agent of WCF service  341 which is used to definite the various processes of data mining achieves the SmartClient-based Workflow Designer 5.4 Solution in WCF WCF is a SOA-based NET framework released by Microsoft WCF previous called Indigo is the common framework that is built through managed code and is to operate Service Oriented application programs 6 It enables developers to build a secure reliable and transactional multi-platform solution which is compatible with currently running system WCF is a successful combination of Microsoft distributive application programs development incorporating all the technologies relevant to distributive system under NET platform such as Net Remoting ASMZ WSE and MSMQ In terms of Communication range it could be inter-process inter-machine inter\255 subnet inter-intranet or even Internet In terms of Host program it could use ASP.NET EXE WPF Windows Forms NT Service and COM as its Host WCF supports protocols including TCP HTTP inter-process and custom protocols it supports many kinds of standards and safe modes such as SAML Kerberos X509 User/Password custom and so on That is to say all constituents related are included in framework of WCF so the development of SOA-based distributive system is more easily The Data Mining system solution created in WCF is shown in Figure4 This solution includes subjects such i CustomerID long key Gender text discrete Income long continuous MemberCard text discrete predict Purchase table  ProductName text key Quantity long continuous using Microsoft_Decision_Trees DMWeb DM WebSecurity DM WorkjlowClient DMDataMode realizes various service of data mining such as data uploading service data cleaning service mining Algorithm service and OLAP service and so on contains interface between business logic and page logic like Web pages and user input check return strDimensions,o connection close 0 DMRuntime.Services Create Mining model MenmberCard_Prediction Caption T oStringO,o DMServices.Proxy  Apart from this ADOMD.NET also support MDX enquiry to obtain CellSets 5.3 Data Mining algorithm OLE DB for DM specifically dermes enquiry language for Data Mining DMX Through the use of MD X sentences it is easy to achieve the three important steps of Data Mining which are Model Creation Model Training and Model Prediction Meanwhile MDX is simple in terms of grammar similar to operating data in a relation data table The following codes achieve the Data Mining Model using Decision Tree Algorithm This model uses Gender Income and a series of goods customers purchase and their quantities to predict MenmberCard OM 225\225 _  Prosy is used to realize custom Provider and so on 8 strDimensions i connection Cubes CubeName].Dimensions       S I Figure as"DM.Web","DM WebSecurity","DM WorkjlowClienf DMServices.Proxy DM.Business.Services DMRun time.Services","DMDataModef DMBusiness.Services  ii _     Solutions of date minning-based item inWCF 


Combining SOA and new natures in BI development this paper explores the advantages of SOA-based Data Mining system and framework for designing it and makes detailed analysis into key technologies necessary for achieving this framework In the long term SOA\255 based Data Mining system is bound to become a new application mode for BI in companies which is defined as Saas This paper is supported by National Key Technology R&D Program during the 11 th Five-Year Plan Period Key Technology and Platform of the Integrated Management 2006BAH02A06 China Academic Journal Electronic Publishing House China June 2007 pp 284-286 4 Liu Shuiping Han Weihong Liu Jiahong and Yin Gang Reaserch on a Framwork of Application Integration Based on SOA 7 Acknowledgement Wuhan March 2006 pp 3-6 3 Hou Zhanwei Mo Lin Zhen Hua and Zhai Haixia Research and Design of DatabaseMiddleware Based on SOA C Services Computing A Dissertation Submitted to Academic Degree Evaluation Committee of Wuhan University of Technology for Doctoral Degree of Philosophy in Engineering Academic Journal Electronic Publishing House China 2006 pp 199-201 5 Krogdahl P Luef G and Steindl 6 Conclusion 2005 IEEE International Conference onVolume 2 11-15 July 2005 Page\(s 100 vol.2 6 ZhaoHui Tang Jamie MacLennan Microelectronics and Computer Data Mining with SQL Server 2005 Professional WCF Programming.NET Development with the Windows Communication Foundation References International Workshops Springer Verlag Wiley publishing 10475 Crosspoint Boulevard pp 365-398 7 Scott Klein Application Research of Computers 342 1 Yang Jae-Min Kim Jong-Geun and 1m Jong-In Information security and consideration in building internet data centers for pervasive environment ApWeb/WAIM 2007 Heidelberg D\255 69121 Germany Huang Shan China Jun 16-182007 2 Li Cunrong Knowledge Extraction and Application of Production Manufacturing Information Wiley publishing pp 47-58 


mining of data streams and outline further research issues  5.1. Multidimensional data stream analysis using stream cubes  For multi-dimensional analysis of data streams we proposed a stream cube architecture Chen+02 Han+05\or efficient and effective multi-dimensional regression analysis in time series data streams. The major challenges for construction of a stream data cube is the huge volume of data, and the potentially even huger size of stream data cube, and the incremental update of such a stream cube.  The proposed architecture has the following features: \(1 tilted time window for registering recent data at fine granularity, and more distant ones at coarser granularity; \(2\ two critical layers: a minimal interest layer and an observation layer which are used to save minimal number of cuboids whereas achieving the power of high-level observation and low-level drilling, and \(3 an efficient data structure for partial computation of data cubes which uses an H-tree structure \(HPDW01\lly compute data cubes saving storage space pre-computation efforts, and online computation time. The stream data cubes so constructed are much smaller than those constructed from the raw stream data but will still be effective for many multi-dimensional stream data analysis tasks This architecture has been shown its efficiency and scalability in our construction of the MAIDS system Mining Alarming Incidents in Data Streams Cai+04\d its subsequent experiments with various kinds of stream data.  The architecture will be further developed in this project, especially for the analysis of correlations, trends and outliers in the context of data streams, to facilitate multi-dimensional mining of various kinds of patterns in data streams  5.2. Clustering evolving data streams  For efficient clustering of stream data, typical clustering methods proposed in machine learning statistics and data mining communities \(ABKS99 KHK99, Agga+99, AGGR98, BFR98, GRS98 NgHa94, JaDu88, KaRo90, ZRL96\ot work since they require multiple scans of a database. For single-scan clustering of data streams, new algorithms such as \(GMMO00, Ocal+02\ave been proposed.  Unfortunately, these stream clustering methods cannot be used to discover stream evolution behavior since they suffer from two deficiencies First, they assume that the clusters are to be computed over the entire data stream.  Although such an assumption may be useful in some applications, a data stream should often be viewed as an infinite process consisting of data which continuously evolves with time As a result, the underlying clusters may also change considerably with time.   The nature of the clusters may vary with both the moment at which they are computed as well as the time horizon over which they are measured. For example, a data analyst may wish to compare clusters occurring now with that in the last hour, day, week, or month.  These clusters could be considerably different.  Without considering multiple tilted time windows it is impossible to perform such comparison to find the dynamics and evolution of data streams Second, they assume that incremental clustering can be performed by maintaining only a small number of existing clusters \(such as k in the k median or k -means method\hat is, the level of granularity to be preserved across windows is at the level of macro-clusters.  However, with the fast evolving streaming data, it is obvious that some objects originally belongings to cluster C1 may need to be moved to another cluster C2 or even form a new, independent cluster C3.  Since the macro-cluster level does not register any detailed information about such groups of objects, it is impossible to make correct judgment on whether such annihilated groups of objects should be moved to another cluster or form a new one.  That is, since the amount of information maintained by a k -means or k -median type approach is too rough in granularity, and once two cluster centers are joined, there is no way to informatively split the clusters when required by the changes in the stream at a later stage. Therefore, the quality of stream clustering could suffer from the lack of sufficient information Based on these observations, we proposed a new stream clustering method, called CluStream AHWY03\ed on two major ideas: microclustering and tilted time frame, which are useful for efficient bookkeeping in data streams and overcome the two problems lack of historical information and lack of appropriate level of granularity  First, we need to explore the concept of microclustering ZRL96\sure that clustering can be adapted to the dynamic changes of data streams by using additional information at a relatively fine level of granularity.  More concretely, we maintain statistical information about the data locality in terms of microclusters, defined as a direct extension of the cluster feature vector \(ZRL96\he microclusters have an additivity property which makes them a natural choice for data streams. When new data objects streaming in, they could be either absorbed by an existing microcluster, or form a new one Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


depending on their relatively distance from the nearest microcluster center. The creation of new microclusters may lead to the merge of some nearby existing microclusters or removal of some small and outdated microclusters \(treated as old outliers These may lead to incremental maintenance and dynamic evolution of microclusters in data streams The summary information in the microclusters can be used for creation of macroclusters \(i.e., the high-level k clusters for an input parameter k\ dynamically based on an efficient clustering algorithm, such as k means, and application requirements.  Such a microcluster-to-macrocluster framework will provide an efficient and quality clustering mechanism for dynamically changing data streams Second, we need to adopt tilted time frame, where microclusters are stored at snapshots in time.   In the tilted time frame, the snapshots are maintained at different granularity depending upon their level of recency.  This framework facilitates the fading of aged microclusters and discovery of the dynamic changes of the clusters with time.  Since the time windows are tilted, the amount of information to be registered is limited and thus it strikes a balance between efficiency and the capability of detection of stream dynamics Notice that the proposed method requires us to register some additional information with respect to the tilted time frame and the finer level of granularity.  People may wonder whether the overhead may outweigh the potential benefit.  Based on our initial experiments, even with very moderate sized microclusters \(such as the number of microclusters is only about 10 * k, where k is the number of macroclusters\, the quality of clustering can be enhanced substantially, with only very minimal overhead in computation time \(AHWY03 The clustering quality enhancement by this approach is striking for dynamically changing data, such as network intrusion data.  Therefore, with the current availability of fast computers and considerable sized main memory \(usually more than one million times bigger in bytes than k, where k is the desired number of macroclusters\alistic to trade some computation resource for the quality and flexibility of stream clustering With the above discussed framework, i.e., microclustering and tilted time window, several other clustering paradigms, such as density-based clustering \(ABKS99\ssian distribution-based clustering \(HiKe98\d distance- and connectionintegrated hierarchical clustering \(KHK99\ be re-examined in the context of stream clustering Efficient and effective stream clustering algorithms can be developed following those paradigms as well  We need to investigate the efficient and effective methods for stream clustering based on the ideas outline above and construct effective and highquality methods for clustering dynamic, dataintensive streams to discover the dynamics of data streams  5.3. Dynamic modeling and classification of data streams  As an essential data mining task, classification has been one of most popularly studied subjects in machine learning, statistics, and data mining Quin86, WiFr00, Mitc97, HTF01, HaKa06\There have been many well-developed classifiers, such as decision trees, naive Bayesian classifiers, Bayesian networks, nearest neighbor, neural networks, and support vector machines.  In many studies researchers have found that each classifier has advantages for certain types of data sets \(LLS00 For stream data, there is a necessity to dynamically construct classifiers based on the historical and current information, which poses the following challenges 1. The classifier construction process should be fast and dynamic because the data may arrive at a high rate, with dramatic changes.  For example, thousands of packets can be collected from sensor nets every second, and millions of customers may make purchases every day 2. The classifier should also evolve over time since the labels of similar records may change from time to time.  As a result, how to keep trace of this type of evolution and how to discover the cause that leads to the evolution is an important and difficult problem  To build fast, adaptive, and evolving classifiers in the stream data environment, one needs to reexamine the broad spectrum of available classifiers to see what kinds of classifiers may be good candidates for stream classification.  Some of the known classifiers, such as neural networks and support vector machines, may not be good for single-scan very fast model reconstruction while handling the huge volumes of stream data. Recently, \(DoHu00 HSD01\eloped a few efficient decision tree induction algorithms for stream data, such as VFDT and CVFDT. However, these stream classification methods are not adequate at handling data streams and discovering stream evolution regularity, based on the following analysis First, decision trees have been popularly adopted as the first choice in the classification of stream data Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


such as \(DoHu00, HSD01\or its simplicity and easy explanation.  However, it is difficult to dynamically and drastically change decision trees due to the costly reconstruction once they have been built In many real applications, there are frequent dynamic changes in stream data, such as in stock data analysis, traffic or weather modeling, and so on.  In addition, a large amount of raw data is needed to build a decision tree.  According to the model proposed in \(HSD01\ necessary to keep such raw data in memory or on disk since they may be used later for updating the statistics when old records leave the window and for reconstructing parts of the tree. If the concept drifts often, the related data needs to be scanned multiple times so that the decision tree can be kept updated. This is usually unaffordable for streaming data. Also, after detecting the drift in the model, it may take a long time to accumulate sufficient data to build an accurate decision tree HSD01\ny drift taking place during that period either cannot be caught or will make the tree unstable Second, based on the similar observation as in stream clustering, without storing historical information, it is impossible to detect the evolution regularity of classification models for dynamic data streams.  In practice, one may need to compare the models constructed at different time frames and see what has changed.  Moreover, it is often necessary to put different weights on the data arriving at different time frames so that aged data can be weighted less and be gradually faded out.  This poses the necessity for a tilted time frame model Based on the above analysis, we proposed two major components for the construction and dynamic evolution of classification models: \(1\ime frame, and \(2\sification method that is more adaptable to the changes of data First, a tilted time frame similar to that described above is introduced in our stream classification model.  This ensures that essential historical information can be saved for fading aged data and for comparing models at different times to discover the evolution of classification models Second, instead of refining the decision tree model, we integrate a classification method that is more adaptive to the changes of data. We developed and tested three methods for classification of data 2 naïve Bayesian classifier with boosting \(YYHW05 and \(3\-nearest neighbor approach \(AHWY06 The first such test is to construct an ensemble classifier \(WFYH03\at explores the power of ensemble multiple classifiers, each being a simple classification model adaptive to dynamic changes of data streams.  Our experiments show the high accuracy and efficiency of such a classification methods, despite of the dynamic changes of data streams The second test is to integrate a naïve Bayesian classifier \(YYHW05\, since it is easy to construct and adapt.  The naïve Bayesian classifier, in essence maintains a set of probability distributions P\(ai | v where ai and v are the attribute value and the class label, respectively.  To classify a record with several attribute values, it is assumed that the conditional probability distributions of these values are independent of each other. Thus, one can simply multiply the conditional probabilities together and label the record with the class label of the greatest probability. Despite its simplicity, the accuracy of the naïve Baysian classifier is comparable to other classifiers, such as decision trees \(Mitc97, DoPa97 To further enhance the accuracy of stream classifier a boosting technique similar to that described in FrSc97\ be introduced.  The boosting method retains a portion of recent data set as an independent testing set, and then puts additional weight on the misclassified cases, that is, increasing the weight when new similar cases of data streaming in.   Our experimental results show that this method leads to a high quality stream classifier The third test is to construct a k-nearest neighbor classifier \(AHWY06\at performs microclustering in a similar way as clustering evolving data streams and then perform classification dynamically based on k such precomputed and incrementally updated microclusters.  This method integrated the streambased microclustering with online classification based on k -nearest neighbors and leads to high accuracy and high efficiency/scalability in stream classification  6. Conclusion  In this paper we have discussed issues approaches, challenges and directions for Real-time and Stream Data Mining. In particular, we discuss real-time clustering and outlier detection approaches as well as stream data mining and multidimensional analysis. For each topic we discuss some approaches we have developed and the research that needs to be done Real-time knowledge discovery and dissemination is a new direction. Not only do we need to extract useful patterns we also need to extract such patterns in a timely manner so that the emergency responder or the war fighter or the intelligence analyst has this information to make Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


appropriate decisions. On the one hand we can determine all possibilities ahead of time and execute during run time. At the other extreme we need to extract the nuggets as well as develop models during run time. We can also develop solutions that carry out partial computations ahead of time and the rest during run time Several techniques such as real-time query approximation have been proposed by the real-time research community. The knowledge discovery community has developed numerous data mining and machine learning algorithms. This paper attempts to integrate the solutions proposed by both communities  7. References  ABKS99  M  A n k e r s t  M  B r e u n i g  H  P  K r i e g e l  a n d   J.  Sander. OPTICS:  Ordering  points  to  identify the clustering structure.  In Proc. 1999 ACM-SIGMOD Int Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'99\, pages 49-60 Philadelphia, PA, June 1999  AGGR98 R  A g raw a l,  J  G e hrk e D  G unopu los   a nd P  Raghavan.  Automatic subspace clustering of high dimensional data for data mining applications.  In Proc 1998 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data SIGMOD'98\ges 94-105, Seattle, WA, June 1998  AGK A r y a G a rg K h a nde k a r, Mey e rs on, Mu na g a la  and Pandit.  Local Search Heuristics for k-Median and Facility Location Problems.  SIAM Journal of Computing vol. 33, 2004  AS94 R. A g ra wa l a nd R. Srik a n t. Fa st a l g o rithm s  f o r mining association rules.  In Proc. 1994 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'94\ges 487-499, Santiago Chile, Sept. 1994  AHWY C  C  A g ga r w a l J   H a n,  J  W a ng a nd P  S   Yu.  A framework for clustering evolving data streams.  In Proc. 2003 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'03 pages 81-92,  Berlin, Germany, Sept. 2003  AHWY04a C  A g g a r w a l J  H a n, J  W a ng a nd P. S  Y u    A framework for projected clustering of high dimensional data streams. In Proc. 2004 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'04\, pages 852-863, Toronto, Canada, Aug 2004  AHWY C. A g g a r w a l J  H a n, J  W a ng  a nd P. S. Y u   On demand classification of data streams. In Proc. 2004 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD'04\ges 503-508, Seattle, WA, Aug 2004  AHWY C. C. A g g a r w a l J  H a n, J  W a ng  a nd P. S. Y u   On efficient algorithms for high dimensional projected clustering of data streams. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 10:251-273, 2005  AHWY06 C  A g g a r w a l  J  H a n  J  W a n g  a n d  P  S  Y u    A framework for on demand classification of evolving data streams. In IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering,  18\(5\77-789, 2006  APW+ 99  C  A g g a rw a l  C  Pr o c o p i u c  J  W o l f  P  S   Yu, and J.-S. Park. Fast algorithms for projected clustering In Proc. 1999 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'99\ges 61-72, Philadelphia, PA, June 1999  AS94 R. A g ra w a l a nd R. Srik a n t.  Fa st a l g o rithm s f o r  mining association rules.  In Proc. 1994 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'94\ges 487-499, Santiago Chile, Sept. 1994  BBD+ 02 B  Bab c o c k  S. Bab u M. Datar, R. M o tw an i and J. Widom. Models and issues in data stream systems In Proc. 2002 ACM Symp. Principles of Database Systems PODS'02\pages 1-16, Madison, WI, June 2002  BFR98 P  Bra dle y U. Fa y y a d, a n d C  Re ina  Sc a ling  clustering algorithms to large databases. In Proc. 1998 Int Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD'98 pages 9-15, New York, NY, Aug. 1998  BKNS00  M   M  B r e u n i g  H  P  K r i e g e l  R  N g   a n d   J.  Sander.  LOF:  Identifying  density-based  local outliers In Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'00\ges 93-104, Dallas, TX, May 2000  BR99 K  B e y e r a n d R  R a m a k r i s h n a n  B o t t o m u p   computation  of  sparse  and  iceberg  cubes.   In Proc 1999  ACM-SIGMOD  Int.  Conf.  Management  of  Data SIGMOD'99\ges  359-370, Philadelphia, PA, June 1999  B C J C  Bu rges A t u t o ri al  o n su pp o r t vect o r  machines for pattern recognition.  Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2:121-168, 1998  BW01 S. B a bu a n d J  W i dom C o ntin uo us  que rie s ov e r  data streams.  SIGMOD Record, 30:109-120, 2001  CCP+ 04 Y  D  C a i  D  C l u t t e r  G  P a p e  J  H a n  M   Welge, and L. Auvil.  MAIDS: Mining alarming incidents from data streams.  In Proc. 2004 ACM-SIGMOD Int Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'04\ges 919-920 Paris, France, June 2004  CDH+ 02 Y  C h e n  G  D ong J  H a n, B  W  W a h, a nd J   Wang. Multi-dimensional regression analysis of time-series data streams.  In Proc. 2002 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'02\, pages 323-334, Hong Kong, China Aug. 2002  CKS+ 88  P. Che e s e m a n J  K e lly M. Se l f J  Stutz  W   Taylor, and D. Freeman. AutoClass:  a Bayesian Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


classification system. In Proc. 1988 Int. Conf. Machine Learning, pages 54-64, San Mateo, CA, 1988  CYH04 H  C h e n g   X  Y a n   a n d J  H a n  I n c S p a n     Incremental  mining  of  sequential  patterns  in large database.  In Proc. 2004 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD'04\ges 527532, Seattle, WA, Aug. 2004  DGGR02 A  D obra  M. G a rofa la k i s  J   G e hrke a nd R   Rastogi. Processing complex aggregate queries over data streams.  In Proc. 2002 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf Management of Data \(SIGMOD'02\, pages 61-72 Madison, WI, June 2002  DH00  P  D o m i ng os a nd G  Hulte n Mini ng hig h s pe e d  data streams.  In Proc. 2000 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD'00\, pages 7180, Boston, MA, Aug. 2000  DHS R O Du d a   P  E Hart  an d D G  S t o r k P a ttern Classification \(2nd ed.\ John Wiley & Sons, 2001  DP9  P  Do m i n g o s an d M  J  P azzan i  On t h e o p t i m al i t y  of  the  simple  bayesian  classifier  under zero-one loss Machine Learning, 29:103-130, 1997  FK96 M Fre d m a n a nd L  K h a c hiy a n.  O n the Co m p le x i t y  of Dualization of Monotone Disjunctive Normal Forms Journal of algorithms, vol. 21, 1996  FS97 Y  Fre u n d a nd R. E. Sc ha pire A de c i s i on-the o re tic  generalization of on-line learning and an application to boosting.  J. Computer and System Sciences, 55:119-139 1997  GKMS01 A  C. G ilbe r t, Y. K o tidis S M u th uk rishna n   and M. Strauss.  Surfing wavelets on streams: One-pass summaries for approximate aggregate queries. In Proc 2001 Int. Conf. on Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'01 pages 79-88, Rome, Italy, Sept. 2001  GKS01 S. G uha N  K o u d a s a nd L  Shim D a ta s t r e am s and historgrams.  In Proc. ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing \(STOC'00\, pages 471-475, Crete, Greece, July 2001  GMMO00 S   G u h a  N   M i s h r a  R  M o t w a n i  a n d L    O'Callaghan.   Clustering  data  streams.   In  Proc. 2000 Symp.  Foundations  of  Computer  Science  \(FOCS'00 pages  359-366,  Redond o  Beach, CA, 2000  GRG J  G e hrk e R  R a m a k r is hna n, a n d V. G a nti   RainForest: A framework for fast decision tree construction of large datasets.  In Proc. 1998 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'98\ges 416-427, New York, NY, Aug 1998  GRS98 S. G uha R. Ra s t og i, a nd K  Shim Cure  A n  efficient clustering algorithm for large databases.  In Proc 1998  ACM-SIGMOD  Int.  Conf.  Management  of  Data SIGMOD'98\ges 73-84, Seattle, WA, June 1998  H  J Han  Y C h en  G  Do n g  J  P e i B  W  W a h   J. Wang, and Y. D. Cai.  Stream cube:  An architecture for multi-dimensional analysis of data streams. Distributed and Parallel Databases, 18:173-197, 2005  Hec96 D  H e c k e r m a n.  B a y e s i an ne tw ork s f o r k now le dg e  discovery.  In U. M. Fayyad, G. Piatetsky-Shapiro, P Smyth, and R. Uthurusamy, editors, Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pages 273-305 MIT Press, 1996  HK98 A  H i nne bur g a n d D  A  K e i m  A n ef f i c i e n t approach to clustering in large multimedia databases with noise.  In Proc. 1998 Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD'98\, pages 58-65, New York, NY, Aug 1998  HK06 J  H a n a nd M. K a m b e r D a ta Mining C onc e p ts a n d  Techniques \(2nd ed.\Morgan Kaufmann, 2006  HPDW01 J  H a n, J  P e i, G  D ong a nd K  W a ng    Efficient computation of iceberg cubes with complex measures. In Proc. 2001 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf Management of Data \(SIGMOD'01\ges 1-12, Santa Barbara, CA, May 2001  HPY00 J  H a n, J   P e i  a n d Y  Y i n Min i ng f r e que nt  patterns without candidate generation.  In Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data SIGMOD'00\ges 1-12, Dallas, TX, May 2000  HSD01 G  H u lte n, L  Spe n c e r  a nd P  D o m i ng os Mining  time-changing data streams.  In Proc. 2001 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD'01 San Fransisco, CA, Aug. 2001  HTF01 T  H a s tie R T i bs hira ni, a nd J  Frie dm a n T h e Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference and Prediction.  Springer-Verlag, 2001   A  K Jain an d R C Du b e s A l go rith m s  f o r Clustering Data.  Prentice Hall, 1988  JTHW W  J i n, A  K  H  T u n g  J  H a n, a nd W  W a ng   Ranking outliers using symmetri c neighborhood relationship.  In Proc. 2006 Pacific-Asia Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(PAKDD'06\, Singapore, April 2006   G  Kar y p i s E H Han  an d  V  Ku m a r   CHAMELEON:  A hierarchical clustering algorithm using dynamic modeling.  COMPUTER, 32:68-75, 1999  KMBRT04 P  K ontk a ne n   P   My ll y m ak i, W  B unti n e  J   Rissanen, H. Tirri. An MDL Framework for Data Clustering. MIT Press, 2004  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


KN98 E. K nor r a nd R. N g A l g o rithm s  f o r m i ning  distance-based outliers in large datasets. In Proc. 1998 Int Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'98\, pages 392-403 New York, NY, Aug. 1998  KR90 L  K a u f m a n a nd P  J  R ous s e e u w  Finding G r oups  in Data: An Introduction to Cluster Analysis. John Wiley Sons, 1990  LHG  X L i J  H a n a nd H  G onz a l e z  H i g h dimensional OLAP: A minimal cubing approach.  In Proc 2004 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'04\, pages 528-539, Toronto, Canada, Aug. 2004  LLHH H  L i u, Y  L u J  H a n a nd J  H e Error-a da ptiv e  and time-aware maintenance of frequency counts  over data  streams.   In  Proc.  2006  Int.  Conf.  on  Web-Age Information  Management \(WAIM'06\, pages 484-495 Hong Kong, China, June, 2006  LLS00 T S  Li m   W Y   Lo h  a n d Y  S  Sh ih  A  comparison of prediction accuracy, complexity, and training time of thirty-three old and new classification algorithms. Machine Learning, 40:203-228, 2000  Mit97 T  M Mitc he ll Ma c h i n e L e a r ning Mc G r a w Hill 1997  MM02 G  Ma nk u a nd R  Motw a n i.  A pprox im a t e frequency counts over data streams.  In Proc. 2002 Int Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'02\, pages 346-357 Hong Kong, China, Aug. 2002  MT94 Ma a s s a nd T u r a n.  A l g o r ithm s a nd L o w e r B ounds  for On-Line Learning of Geometrical Concepts.  Machine Learning, vol. 14, 1994   R Ng an d J Han   E f f i ci en t an d eff ect i v e  clustering method for spatial data mining.  In Proc. 1994 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'94\, pages 144155, Santiago, Chile, Sept. 1994  NLHP98 R  N g  L  V  S  L a k s h m a n a n  J  H a n  a n d A   Pang. Exploratory mining and pruning optimizations of constrained associations rules.  In Proc. 1998 ACMSIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'98 pages 13-24, Seattle, WA, June 1998  OMM+ 02 L  O  Ca lla g h a n A  Me y e rs on, R. Mo tw a n i, N   Mishra, and S. Guha. Streaming-data algorithms for highquality clustering.  In Proc. 2002 Int. Conf. Data Engineering \(ICDE'02\pages 685-696, San Fransisco, CA Apr. 2002  PHMA+ 04 J  P e i J Han B  M o rtazavi-Asl J W a n g  H  Pinto, Q. Chen, U. Dayal, and M.-C. Hsu. Mining sequential patterns by pattern-growth: The prefixspan approach. IEEE Trans. Knowledge and Data Engineering 16:1424-1440, 2004  Qui86 J  R. Q u inla n.  In du c tion of de c i s i on tre e s    Machine Learning, 1:81-106, 1986  SA96 R   S r i k a n t a n d  R  A g r a w a l  M i n i n g s e q u e n t i a l   patterns:  Generalizations  and  performance improvements In Proc. 5th Int. Conf. Extending Database Technology EDBT'96\ges 3-17, Avignon, France, Mar. 1996  SLZ01 S  S h e k h a r  C  T  L u  a n d  P  Z h a n g  D e t e c t i n g  graph-based spatial outlier:  Algorithms and applications  \(a summary  of  results\roc.  2001  ACM  SIGKDD Int.  Conf.  Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD'01 San Fransisco, CA, Aug. 2001  SS B S c ho el ko p f an d A  J S m o l a L e arn i n g w i t h  Kernels:  Support Vector Machines, Regularization Optimization, and Beyond.  MIT Press, 2002  THUR06 B  T hur a i s i ng ha m  A s s u r e d I n f o r m a tion  Sharing: Volume 1: Overview, UTD Technical Report 2006  TSK05  P  T a n, M Ste i n b a c h a n d V  K u m a r    Introduction to Data Mining.  Addison Wesley, 2005  WF05 I. H. W itte n a nd E. Fra n k  Da ta Mining P r a c tic a l  Machine Learning Tools and Techniques \(2nd ed Morgan Kaufmann, 2005  WFYH03 H  W a ng W  Fa n, P   S. Y u a n d J  H a n. Min i ng  concept-drifting data streams using ensemble classifiers.  In Proc.  2003  ACM  SIGKDD  Int.  Conf.  Knowledge Discovery  and  Data  Mining \(KDD'03\ges 226-235 Washington, DC, Aug. 2003  XHLW D   Xi n, J  H a n X   L i a nd B  W  W a h.  Sta r cubing:  Computing iceberg cubes by top-down and bottom-up integration. In Proc. 2003 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'03\ges 476-487, Berlin, Germany Sept. 2003  XHSL06 D   X i n  J  H a n   Z   S h a o   a n d H  L i u   C cubing:  Efficient  computation  of  closed  cubes  by aggregation-based checking.  In Proc. 2006 Int. Conf. Data Engineering \(ICDE'06\ Atlanta, Georgia, April 2006    X  Yan  a n d  J.  Han  Cl o s eG rap h    M i n i n g   closed  frequent  graph  patterns.   In  Proc.  2003 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD'03\ges 286-295, Washington, DC, Aug 2003   H Yu  J Yan g  an d J Han  Classify in g larg e data sets using SVM with hierarchical clusters.  In Proc 2003 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD'03\ges 306-315, Washington, DC Aug. 2003  YYHW05 J Yan g  X  Yan  J Han  an d W  Wan g   Discovering evolutionary classifier over high speed nonstatic stream. In S. Bandyopadhyay, U. Maulik, L. B Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 


Holder, and D. J. Cook \(eds.\Advanced Methods for Knowledge Discovery from Complex Data, pages 337-363 Springer, 2005  Zak01 M  Z a ki  S P A D E   An eff i ci en t al go ri t h m  f o r mining frequent sequences.  Machine Learning, 40:31-60 2001  ZDN97 Y  Zha o  P. M. D e s h p a nde a nd J  F. N a ug hto n   An array-based algorithm for simultaneous multidimensional aggregates. In Proc. 1997 ACMSIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'97 pages 159-170, Tucson, AZ, May 1997  ZH0  M  J  Z a ki an d C J Hsi ao  CHA R M  A n eff i ci en t  algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. 2002 SIAM Int. Conf. Data Mining \(SDM'02\ges 457-473 Arlington, VA, April 2002  ZRL96 T  Zha n g  R  R a m a kris hna n, a n d M. L i v n y   BIRCH  : an efficient data clustering method for very large databases. In Proc. 1996 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf Management of Data \(SIGMOD'96\, pages 103-114 Montreal, Canada, June 1996   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 12 


28 NASA 2005 Bushfires Race Across Eyre Peninsula in South Australia Photograph NASA Earth Observations Washington DC 20546-0001 viewed 30th July 2007  29 Ettenberg M.H et al 2003 A miniaturized 320 times 256 indium gallium arsenide SWIR camera for robotic and unmanned aerial vehicle applications Orlando FL United States 30 flirthermography.com 2006 Boy holding a hot mug and cold bottle Infrared Image FLIR Systems Inc Wilsonville USA viewed 5th October 2006  31 flirthermography.com 2006 Suspect caught using Infrared technology Infrared Image FLIR Systems Inc Wilsonville USA viewed 5th October 2006  32 Umamaheshwaran R W Bijker and A Stein 2007 Image Mining for Modeling of Forest Fires From Meteosat Images Geoscience and Remote Sensing IEEE Transactions on vol 45 no 1 pp 246-253 33 Jasiunas M.D et al 2002 Image fusion for uninhabited airborne vehicles paper presented at the IEEE International Conference on Field-Programmable Technology FPT Hong Kong China 34 Wong S 2005 Advanced correlation tracking of objects in cluttered imagery paper presented at the SPIE The International Society for Optical Engineering Conference on Acquisition Tracking and Pointing XIX Orlando FL United States 35 Society of Fire Protection Engineers SFPE SFPE handbook of fire protection engineering 3rd ed ed P.J Dinenno et al 2002 Quincy MA National Fire Protection Association 1600 36 Manzello S.L et al 2006 Firebrand production from burning vegetation Forest Ecology and Management vol 234 no Supplement 1 p S119 37 Manzello S.L et al 2006 On the ignition of fuel beds by firebrands Fire and Materials vol 30 no 1 pp 77-87 temperature International Journal of Remote Sensing vol 24 no 17 pp 3515-3520 40 Weaver J.F J.F.W Purdom and T.L Schneider 1995 Observing Forest Fires with the GOES-8 3.9&micro;m Imaging Channel Weather and Forecasting vol 10 no 4 December 01 1995 pp 803-808 41 Manzello S.L et al Urban-Wildland Fires On the Ignition of Surfaces by Embers in the Fourth 4th Joint Meeting of the U.S Sections Combustion Institute E3 Fire Research III 2005 Combustion Institute and Drexel University Philadelphia PA p 16 42 Jasiunas M D Kearney and R Bowyer 2005 Connectivity Resource Integration and High Performance Reconfigurable Computing for Autonomous UAVs paper presented at the Aerospace 2005 IEEE Conference Big Sky Montana USA 2005 BIOGRAPHY Grant Wigley is a lecturer at the University of South Australia and a member of the Reconfigurable Computing Laboratory He is interested in operating systems for the management Of reconfigurable computing applications and application domains for high performance computing platforms He has a PhD from the University of South Australia Ronald Graml has a Bachelor of Computer and Information Science Honors from the University of South Australia and an Associate Diploma of Electronic Engineering from Regency Institute He is currenly a PhD candidate at the University of South Australia and a member of the Reconfigurable Computing Laboratory His current research interests include UAV autonomy operating systems for FPGAs computer vision and bushfire monitoring 38 Kozeki D 2001 Smoldering fire detection by imageprocessing Gaithersburg MD USA 39 Giglio L and C.O Justice 2003 Effect of wavelength selection on characterization of fire size and 13 


 14  Table 8 - Flash-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 6U  Approx 28 x12.7 x 25 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  4 ea Mass  3.5 kg  Power  6 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel SpaceWire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(EDAC Sparing extra Devices  254 512 Gb \(not incl EDAC  Controller Board  Figure 20 - Controller Card Layout \(Violet = Shared Memory  Figure 20 shows one of many possible methods of design for an IO controller slice.  The IO controller slice provides redundant SpaceWire interfaces and redundant interfaces to the backplane.  Alt hough there are two controllers shown there is, in this concept, a single set of Shared Memory which is common between both controllers One of the main functions of the active controller is to build and maintain a directory of memory sector-to-physical address translation tables.  Having the table stored in Shared Memory assures timely restart of the recorder function should it become necessary to activate and swap to the alternate controller Interfaces  The Data Recorder interfa ces with the Command Data Handling \(CDH\ubsystem via the standard SpaceWire interface 8 Utilizing conservative design techniques, a sustained Write speed of at least 200 Mbps into memory is guaranteed.   The recorder is capable of supporting simultaneous Writing and Reading of data subject to usual certain timing restrictions imposed by the memory devices themselves Standard 28 Volt bus power is applied to the SSR which features two power convert er units for redundancy Redundancy & Fault Tolerance The execution of good systems engineering practice is recommended and will, most likely result in a physical  enlargement of the SSR in one dimension.  This may consist of addition of spare memory to each memory slice, or the addition of one or more spare memory slices to the entire design With respect to Fault Tolerance, aside from the use of redundant interfaces and contro llers, described above, the HC-SSR is designed such that individual blocks of words as determined by EDAC boundaries can be tagged as Do Not Use.  An example of an EDAC word with embedded control bits is included as Figure 21  Figure 21 - EDAC Word Bit-Level Assignments File System The HC-SSR contains built in File Management system supervised by Interface/Controlle r ASICs.  File storage is compatible with the CCSDS File Delivery Protocol \(CFDP thereby reducing the need for processing and packetizing data externally   8 ESA Standard ECSS-E-50-12A 96 bits 26 -->||<-- 6 EDAC Ctl/Hdr/ID Data 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


