Enterprise portal personalization: Dire ct and indirect end-user effects, and the moderating effects of gender   Anders Henriksen University of Agder anders.henriksen@uia.no    Per E. Pedersen University of Agder per.pedersen@uia.no    Abstract  Enterprise portals o ffer rich functionality for enduser personalization, but few studies have been conducted on the end-user effects of this feature. This article presents a study of end-user effects of 
personalization, using the combined technology acceptance model \(TAM\d the theory of planned behaviour \(TPB\ a research framework. We propose that personalization indirectly affects end-users intentions through effects on ease of use, usefulness attitude and behaviour control. In addition, it may have a direct effect on end-usersê intentions to use enterprise portals that is not mediated by the variables of the combined TAM TPB-model. Because previous studies have found gender differences in the use of personalization, we also propose that the effects of personalization are moderated by gender. To test these propositions, a study of the effects of enterprise portal 
personalization in a large Norwegian governmentowned enterprise is reported. Results from applying structural equation mo delling show that personalization has a significant effect on perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, attitude, and perceived behavioural control but no direct effect on end-usersê  intentions to use the enterprise portal Furthermore, the results show that the effects of personalization are moderated by gender. The results have implications for enterprise portal designers, for IS-managers and for further research on personalization of information systems in general 
  1. Introduction  Indicating that Personalization, ...., has been recognized as an important concept in IS research 1  s e v e ral articles h a v e r ecen tl y been p u blish e d i n  leading information systems \(IS\ournals on the subject [1, 2, 3 P e rs on alization is e x pected to  play a significant role in enhancing its customers shopping experience 4, p. 42 d T a m an d Ho s u gg est th at   personalizing ...empowers firms to deliver customer value and to achieve profitable growth 2, p. 2  
What is characteristic of these recent studies, however is that they have been conducted in customer portal or web-site contexts Enterprise portals also offer rich functionality for end-user personalization. Adapting the definition of Smith [5 to o r ga niz a tio na l c o nte x ts Sc he e p e r s 6   suggests that An enterprise portal should provide members of the organization with access to relevant internally and externally sourced information, via a Web-based\ gateway which can be customized and personalized to meet individuals 
specific information requirements  6, p. 63 s s e en  f r o m this def i n i t i on   personalization is a central feature of enterprise portals suggesting that the recent interest in personalization in the IS-literature should also be extended to cover enterprise portal studies Several definitions of personalization have been given in the IS-literature [e.g e appl y t h e  definition by Blom [8 g g e stin g t h at p e rso n al izatio n  is a process that changes the functionality, interface information content, or dis tinctiveness of a system to 
increase its personal relevance to an individual 8, p   Personalization can be performed either by the enduser \(explicit personalization\ or by the system implicit personalization y ste m  w i th ex plici t  personalization typically enables the end-user to change the content, layout, interface, or the functionality of the system. Implicit personalization is conducted in various ways: Profile/group-based personalization, in which the personalization is based on an individual profile, membership or role 
behaviour based personalization, in which the personalization is based on click-streams or end-user behaviour; and, finally, collaborative-based personalization, in which the personalization is based on similar end-users behaviour. For enterprise portals the combination of explicit and profile/group-based personalization is most common Enterprise portal applications come preconfigured to utilize these personalization features, but the ISProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


literature offers relatively little assistance to ISmanagers in how these features can be utilized to stimulate adoption and manage end-user behaviour Thus, empirical studies of personalization effects in organizational contexts are important in filling this knowledge gap From human computer interaction \(HCI\iterature Oulasvirta and Blom o u n d t h at person a lizatio n affects end-users engagement, performance persistence, identity, social acceptance, and social status. Still, they concluded that personalization in organizational contexts has attained little attention in the HCI-domain, and suggest further empirical research. This article represents an effort in this direction, empirically investigating the effects of enterprise portal personalization on traditional antecedents of end-user behaviour In the personalization literature, We oun d  that men and women personalized differently and for different reasons. Thus, it is likely that the effects of personalization also differ systematically by gender By investigating these issues empirically, this article further contributes to a better understanding of personalization as an instrument in stimulating and promoting specific end-user behaviour In the next section we present our research model and hypotheses. In section three, the applied method is presented. In section four, our findings are presented and finally, we give a brief summary of conclusions and limitations, and suggest implications of the results  2 Model and hypotheses  In a recent special issue of the Journal of the Association of Information Systems, technology acceptance research was discussed, and two recommendations were given [12   O n e w a s t o  i n c l ud e  the variables of the theory of planned behaviour \(TPB  s t u d ies of tec h n o lo gy accepta n c e. T h e oth e r was to look at IT-artefacts as antecedents of the constructs of the technology acceptance model \(TAM 14   T h i s st ud y t a ke s t h e r e c o mme nd a t i o n s  fr o m t h i s  discussion seriously by applying the combined TAM/TPB model [15 a res earch f r a m e w or k  an d by  focusing personalization as one of the potential antecedents of the constructs in the combined TAM/TPB-model From numerous technology acceptance studies, we know that that the TPB constructs subjective norm and perceived behaviour control \(PBC\ well as the TAM constructs perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness and attitude towards use, are important determinants of end-users intentions to use information systems in organizational contexts [e.g 14, 15 th is s t u d y  w e  f o cu s pers on a lization as o n e  of the antecedents of these variables rather than the effects of these variables on intentions per se. Thus, we investigate how personalization affects end-user behaviour indirectly through its effects on ease of use usefulness, attitude and PBC. Because it is difficult to find theoretical arguments for an effect of personalization on subjective norm, personalization effects on this variable is not focused here. It is however, included in the combined TAM/TPB model that is used as a research framework for this study Furthermore, we suggest that in addition to its mediating effects, personalization may also affect intentions to use enterprise portals directly TPB suggests that an individual s intention to behave is an antecedent of actual behaviour, and that attitude towards the behaviour, subjective norm and PBC are antecedents of this intention. Based on the TPB and on the theory of reasoned action \(TRA Davis introduced the TAM-model [1 th is m odel  perceived ease of use and usefulness are used to explain both attitudes towards use and behavioural intentions to use information systems. In this study, we use the combined TAM/TPB model as a framework for investigating personalization effects Thus we do not discuss all causal paths of the combined TAM/TPBmodel, but focus the effects of personalization and the causal paths of the combined TAM/TPB that are related to the hypothesized effects of personalization In figure 1, our applied version of the combined TAM/TPB-model is illustrated. Potential direct and indirect effects of personalization are illustrated by the paths from perceived personalization \(PP\e independent and dependent constructs of the model Because previous studies have found gender differences in the use of personalization we suggest that the direct and indirect effects of personalization may be moderated by gender. Thus, these moderating effects of gender are also illustrated  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


 Figure 1 Research model Note: EOU = perceived ease of use, USE = perceived usefulness ATT = attitude, PP = perceived personalization, PBC = perceived behaviour control  The model in figure 1 may be used as a basis for hypothesizing individual effects of personalization First, when personalizing enterprise portals, end-users create their own look and feel Thus, it may be easier for the end-users to find information that interests them. Enterprise portal interfaces may be adapted particularly to each end-user s individual behaviour Lin and Wu o u n d that pers on alization h a d a  positive effect on perceived ease of use, and we argue that this finding may also be generalized to workplace information systems. Thus, we propose that H1a: Personalization will influence perceived ease of use of enterprise portals positively  Scheepers u gg es ted th at pers on alizatio n increased the relevance of content, and with increased content relevance, the system was perceived as more useful. Lin and Wu als o f o u n d th at pers on alizatio n influenced perceived usefulness, and, in line with the arguments of generalization used above, we propose that H1b: Personalization will influence perceived usefulness of enterprise portals positively  The effects of personalization on attitudes have been investigated along two lines of reasoning. One has argued that high levels of personalization may affect attitudes negatively due to privacy concerns. The relationship between personalization and privacy has however, been found to be highly sensitive to context 1  m a ki ng u s s u gge st t h a t i n o r ga ni z a t i o na l c o n t e x t s   with high levels of trust, privacy concerns over personalization are not the greatest. Along the other line of reasoning, it has been argued that personalization affects attitudes positively in the same ways as it affects usefulness and ease of use, and empirical support has been found for this T h u s   we propose that H1c: Personalization will influence attitude towards using enterprise portals positively  Technology acceptance studies have found that PBC has a significant effect on end-users intentions to use information technology [19, 20 A ddin g  n e w functionality to information systems may influence the skills required to use the system. Greer and Murtaza  a v e s h o w n t h at PBC related f actors s u c h as Internet experience, influence whether end-users adopt and use personalized websites. Even though personalization in a few cases requires more skills to effectively use the system, we suggest that personalization facilitates the use of the system, and thus, contributes to a higher level of PBC Furthermore, Tafa o u n d th at  w h e n  individuals could choose how to solve a task, they often experienced a sense of personal control, even if the choice had no effect on their actual performance  T h eref ore, w e propos e th at H1d: Personalization will influence perceived behaviour control of enterprise portals positively  In technology acceptance studies applying TAM or TPB, explained variances in intentions to use the systems are often reported in the range from 30% to 50% [e.g  T h u s  m o re t h a n 50 of th e v a rian ce i n  intentions is typically left unexplained applying these models. Examples of concepts that have been shown to have additional direct effects on intentions are trust  joy m ent an d ide n tit y  ex pres s i v e n e s s 25], an d  prior experien e to th e m u lti tu de o f  personalization effects identified by Oulasvirta  and Blom cl u d ing ide n tit y related e f f e cts n o t  included in the combined TAM/TPB-model, it is likely that personalization may also affect intentions to use enterprise portals directly Thus, we propose that H1e: Personalization will influence behavioural intention to use enterprise portals positively  The second set of hypotheses that are investigated in this study considers gender differences in the effects of personalization. Studies have found that the acceptance models of information systems users differ by gender [27, 23 k a t e sh an d Morri s 27] f oun d  that the influence of perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness and subjective norm on behavioural  Intention EOU USE PBC Subjective norm PP Gender ATT Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


intentions differed by gender. Cheung et al. [23 fo und  that the influence of perceived ease of use on attitudes also differed by gender In addition, studies of personalization have shown that men and women personalize differently Against this background, it is likely that personalization effects may also differ by gender As indicated above, Venkatesh and Morris [27 found that perceived ease of use was more important to female end-users than to male end-users. Thus, female end-users intentions are more strongly influenced by ease of use. Because we propose that personalization affects perceived ease of use positively, we consequently, also propose that H2a: Personalization will influence perceived ease of use more strongly for women than it will for men  Ong and Lai [29 fo und t h a t  ma l e e n d use r s va l u e d  usefulness more strongly than female users. Thus, male end-users intentions are more strongly influenced by usefulness. Because we propose that personalization affects perceived usefulness positively, it is also reasonable to propose that H2b: Personalization will influence perceived usefulness more strongly for men than it will for women  Many of the previous studies of gender differences in technology acceptance have either not included attitu o t hy poth e sized g e n d er diff eren ce s  on the effects of attitud c u rre n t  w i t h t h e s e  studies, we do not propose any gender differences on the effects of personalization on attitudes. Previous studies have, however, found that female users personalize more than male users s e  personalization has been shown to enhance the sense of personal cont e prop os e th at  H2c: Personalization will influence perceived behaviour control more strongly for women than it will for men  In addition to the finding that women personalized more than men, Wells [11 a l so fo und t h a t  personalization influenced women s job satisfaction more positively. Because job satisfaction is among the set of variables possibly contributing to explained variance in intentions to use an enterprise system that is not covered by our applied TAM/TPB-framework we assume that personalization may also affect intentions to use enterprise portals more strongly for those that personalize the most. Consequently, we propose that H2d: Personalization will influence behavioural intentions to use enterprise portals more strongly for women than it will for men  3. Method  To test our hypotheses, a survey was conducted among the 8000 users of an enterprise portal in a Norwegian government-owned enterprise. The enterprise was selected by two criteria: First, the enterprise had participated in an earlier qualitative study on enterprise portal person d  second, management had publicly expressed that personalization was a major priority in their enterprise portal development. The ente rprise portal is based on Microsoft Sharepoint 2003 technology, and it is used as a desktop for the end-users and as an information channel. All end-users have individual My page  start-up pages. This page contains corporate news department news, work task list, collaboration room list, favourites, project rooms and other less frequently used items. The survey focused on the My page and thus, the personalization of the My page was used as the stimulus and context of the study  3.1 Instrument  To measure perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness, attitude, PBC, subjective norm and intentions to use the enterprise portal, we use standard items from the IS-literature that are well tested \(see appendix A for wording of the items\he items except for the attitude construct, we used 5-point scales ranging from Strongly disagree 1 Strongly agree 5\To measure attitudes we used three standard 5-point bipolar scales A ll t h e  m e a s u r e s  w e re  designed as reflective. Variables were computed as the weighted average of construct items using the factor loadings of a confirmatory factor analysis \(CFA\he measurement model as weights To study the effects of personalization, the construct may be manipulated by providing different informants with different personalization strategies and then analyse the effects of these manipulations Alternatively perceived personalization may be measured using multiple measures and applied as an independent variable in the same way as the constructs of the combined TAM/TPB model. We decided to use the latter method to measure how the informants perceived the personalization of the enterprise portal The origin of this construct is found in a qualitative study of web-shop super-users Percei v e d personalization has been used in behavioural studies of mobile comm e bs i t e s 31, 33 an d ado p tion  of recommendation agents Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


Based on these studies, a measurement inventory of perceived personalization was developed and pretested among 147 informants in the same Norwegian government-owned enterprise as that of the main study. Based on the pre-study, a compact and parsimonious scale of perceived personalization was developed including the six items shown in appendix A. All items were systematically grouped using an online questionnaire application and made available to respondents online  3.2 Procedure and sample  Participants were recruited using banner announcements on the My page of the enterprise portal. A gift card drawing was used to stimulate recruitment. After one week, 450 respondents had participated, and at this point the banner was moved to the right side border of the enterprise portal After two weeks, the banner was removed from the enterprise portal, and survey recruitment was closed Now, 773 respondents had answered the whole or parts of or the complete questionnaire. When compared to the number of end-users accessing the enterprise portal during the period, this gives us a response rate of 10 which is comparable with similar, recently published online survey studies [e.g. 35   Of the 773 respondents, 15 were removed as extreme outliers, 20 were empty responses, 75 had only finished the first page of the questionnaire, 3 had unrealistic answers on quantitative control items \(e.g the number of hours that My page was used whereas 13 were removed because they had used less than 5 minutes to complete the survey. Using less than 5 minutes was considered an indication of careless response. This gave a final sample of 647 responses to be used in further data analysis. Sample characteristics are shown in table 1  Table 1 Sample characteristics Gender Male 44.6 Female 55.4 Age 0 - 19 0.4 20 29 9.3 30 39 22.5 40 49 39.5 50 59 24.8 60 or more 3.6  When comparing sample characteristics with the characteristics of the enterprise portal user population the sample seemed representative, with an age distribution concentrated between 30 and 59, and with a percentage of female respondents of 55.4  4. Results  We used Amos 7.0 to test our measurement and structural models. We apply the recommended reporting structure of Henriksen and Pedersen  and report model fit for measurement model and structural model, as well as important measurement reliability and validity indicators To assess the reliability of the variables, we report construct reliability \(CR\nd Cronbach s alpha. As seen from Table 2, all variables have Cronbach s alpha above 0.7, and all measures except PBC, have CR above 0.7. CR for this variable is close to 0.7, and Hair  t ate t h at CR  bet w ee n 0.6 an d 0.7 i s  acceptable provided that other indicators are good  Table 2 Reliability and convergent validity Item CR Number of items EOU 0.94 0.80 4 USE 0.94 0.80 4 ATT 0.89 0.72 3 PBC 0.86 0.69 3 SUB 0.88 0.70 3 PP 0.93 0.72 6 INT 0.89 0.74 3 Note: CR=construct reliability  To ensure construct validity, we also assess convergent and discriminant validity. Convergent validity is assessed investigating factor loadings of a CFA of the measurement model and the variances extracted. Variances extracted are reported along the diagonal of Table 3. Applying the criteria of Hair et al  e  s ee t h at v a ria n ces e x t r acted are w e ll abov e t h e  recommended 0.5 for all measures In Appendix A, the factor loadings of the CFA are reported. All factor loadings are well above 0.7, and consequently, we conclude that convergent validity is acceptable. To assess discriminant validity, we apply the principles of Hair et al p arin g  v a ria n ces  extracted with inter-construct squared correlations. In Table 3, correlations between model constructs are reported \(below the diagonal\g with the squared correlations \(above the diagonal\en comparing squared correlations with the variances extracted along the diagonal\we find that all variances extracted are higher than the squared correlations indicating acceptable discriminant validity  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Table 3 Discrimintant validity  PP INT EOU USE PBC SUB ATT PP 0.68 0.19 0.48 0.50 0.37 0.16 0.53 INT 0.444 0.74 0.12 0.32 0.12 0.28 0.15 EOU 0.69 0.35 0.79 0.44 0.59 0.08 0.70 USE 0.70 0.56 0.67 0.80 0.26 0.23 0.54 PBC 0.60 0.35 0.77 0.51 0.68 0.05 0.40 SUB 0.40 0.53 0.28 0.48 0.21 0.72 0.09 ATT 0.73 0.39 0.84 0.74 0.63 0.31 0.72 Note: Values below the diagonal are correlation estimates values in the diagonal are variance extracted, and values above the diagonal are squared correlations  Finally, measurement model fit was investigated The model showed a 2 of 776.3 with 278 degrees of freedom \(p<0.01\ CFI of 0.96, a NFI of 0.94 and RMSEA was 0.053 \(90% CI = 0.048, 0.057\rom these indicators we conclude that measurement model fit is acceptable With acceptable measurement model fit and acceptable reliability and validity, we turn to structural equations modelling for testing the hypotheses of section 2. First, hypotheses 1a 1e are tested using a structural model estimated with the complete sample The structural model shows acceptable fit 2=1010.3 d.f.=286 \(p<0.01\FI = 0.95, NFI = 0.93 RMSEA=0.063 \(\(90% CI = 0.058, 0.067\The structural model results are illustrated in figure 2 where explained variances and standardized path coefficients of the complete model used to test hypotheses 1a-1e are shown in grey squares. The complete model accounts for 41% of the variance in PBC, 56% of the variance in usefulness, 51% of the variance in ease of use, 77% of the variance in attitude and 39% of the variance in the intention to use the enterprise portal. From figure 2, we can se that the paths from ease of use to usefulness and attitude, and the path from usefulness to attitude are significant. The paths from PBC, usefulness and subjective norm to intention are all significant, showing their positive influences on the intention to use enterprise portals The pattern of significant paths and explained variances of the combined TAM/TPB-model do not deviate considerably from what one would expect to find in technology acceptance studies of information systems in organizational contexts Turning to the hypotheses that are the main scope of this study, we find that the paths from personalization to ease of use, usefulness, attitude and PBC are all positive and significant. This supports hypotheses H1a, H1b, H1c and H1d. Thus personalization has a significant positive effect on the antecedents of intention to use enterprise portals. The direct path from personalization to intention, however is not significant. Thus we find no support for hypothesis H1e. This means that all the effects of personalization on intention to use enterprise portals in this study are mediated by ease of use, usefulness attitudes towards use and PBC The hypotheses 2a-2d propose that the effects of enterprise portal personalization are moderated by gender. To test these hypotheses, we use the procedure for invariance testing originally presented by Bollen  d applied f o r m u lti g r o u p an al y s is, i n th e sa m e  way as we apply it here, by Cheung  T h e procedure includes conducting tests of the differences in 2 when comparing the base model where all paths were freely estimated to the constrained model where one path coefficient was constrained to be equal across the two groups 23, p. 478    Figure 2 Structural model. Total, male and female Note: * and ** indicate significant at p<0.05 and p<0.01 respectively  INT EOU USE PBC SUB  PP  R 2 0.44 R 2 0.35 R 2 0.44 R 2 0.60 R 2 0.36 R 2 0.48 0.07 0.11 0.73 0.56 0.53 0.42 0.11 0.23 0.29 0.37 0.66 0.91 0.51 0.62 0.49 0.71 0.59 0.54 0.78 R 2 0.51 R 2 0.41 0.15 0.43 0.61 0.16 R 2 0.39 0.37 Male Female Total ATT  R 2 0.55 R 2 0.57 R 2 0.56 R 2 0.80 R 2 0.74 R 2 0.77 0.38 0.27 0.32 0.10 0.11 0.11 0.28 0.23 0.27 0.10 0.20 0.19 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


 First, models were estimated freely for the male and female groups. The model fits well for male users  2= 617.8, df = 286, CFI = 0.94, NFI = 0.89 RMSEA=0.070 \(\(90% CI = 0.063, 0.078\The model accounts for 55% of the variance in usefulness, 36% of the variance in PBC, 44% of the variance in ease of use, 80% of the variance in attitude, and 44% of the variance in intention to use the enterprise portal. The paths between personalization and usefulness, PBC and ease of use are all significant. For female users, the model also fits well 2= 660.8, and df = 286, CFI 0.94, NFI = 0.90, RMSEA=0.067 \(\(90% CI = 0.060 0.074\The model accounts for 57% of the variance in usefulness, 48% of the variance in PBC, 60% of the variance in ease of use, 74% of the variance in attitude and 35% of the variance in intention to use the enterprise portal. Thus, we see that it is somewhat more difficult to explain the intentions of the female end-users than the male end-users. In this model the paths from personalization to ease of use, usefulness attitude, and PBC are all significant Turning to the hypotheses 2a-2d, we conducted 2difference tests using the procedure for multi-group analysis presented above. The results are presented in Table 4, showing which of the path coefficients that was held constant during estimation, the difference in 2 and the degrees of freedom of the test From Table 4 we see that only the paths between personalization and ease of use 2=7.56, p<0.01\d between personalization and PBC 2=5.58, p<0.05 are significantly different for male and female endusers. Thus, personalization affects ease of use and PBC differently for male and female end-users  Table 4 Multi group analysis Hypotheses Path 2 diff d.f Supported or not H2a PP -> EOU 7.56 1 Supported H2b PP -> USE 0.90 1 Not supported H2c PP -> PBC 5.58 1 Supported H2d PP -> INT 1.22 1 Not supported Note: * and ** indicate significance at p<0.05 and p<0.01 respectively  In addition to propositions on general gender differences, hypotheses 2a-2d also propose specific directions of these differences. The path between personalization and ease of use \(see figure 2\ows that personalization influences ease of use more for female 0.91, p<0.01\han for male 0.66 p<0.01\d-users. This finding supports hypothesis H2a that female users perception of ease of use is more influenced by personalization. Personalization also influences PBC more for female 0.71, p<0.01 than for male 0.49, p<0.01\d-users. Thus hypotheses H2c is also supported. Since none of the other 2-difference tests are significant, hypotheses H2b and H2d are not supported. Even if we did not theoretically propose a specific gender difference in the effect of personalization on attitudes towards use, a 2test of this difference could be interesting. It, however also turned out not significant 2=0.73, d.f.=1 Thus, we can conclude that for 4 hypotheses on gender differences in the effects of personalization, 2 are found significant. Both of these suggest stronger effects of personalization among female end-users than among male end-users. Consequently, we generally conclude that female end-users are more affected by personalization of enterprise portals than male endusers. A summary of the hypothesis testing results is shown in Appendix B  5. Conclusions  Previous research on personalization suggests indirect, direct and modera ted effects of enterprise portal personalization. Through a comprehensive study of enterprise portal personalization in a Norwegian government-owned enterprise, we found that ease of use, usefulness, attitudes towards use and behavioural control are influenced positively by personalization. In addition, we found some of these effects to be moderated by gender, suggesting that female users are more positively influenced by personalization than male users. This shows, as proposed by Scheepers that personalization is an important feature for enterprise portals. In addition, our findings contribute to a better understanding of what personalization does to end-users perceptions of enterprise portals and how it affects end-users behaviour Our conclusions are naturally limited, mainly by external validity. Whereas we have shown the internal validity of the study to be good, the study may be criticized for lack of external validity due to particularities in the personalization operation, the enterprise portal operation and the specific sample characteristics of our study. Still, we argue that the personalization operation using a My page is very typical to many enterprise portal applications. We also argue that the enterprise portal application used in this study is one of the most widespread globally. The level and variance in the perceived personalization measure also support our arguments that end-users perceived different levels of personalization for the studied enterprise portal. Furthermore, sample characteristics have been reported to en able validation of potential bias in sample demographics that may have affected Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


our findings in an invalidating way. It can also be argued that the relatively high average age of our respondents may influence our results, but we have conducted a multi-group analysis with age as a moderator, using the same procedure as for gender reported above. This analysis, applying a median split of the age variable, revealed no significant differences in any personalization effects between the age groups Thus, we argue that if done with care and consideration for differences in end-user characteristics, our conclusions may be generalized to other enterprise portal implementations The current study shows that the combined TAM/TPB-model may be used as a research framework for effectively studying the effects of ITartefacts like personalization. This implies that further investigation of the effects of personalization may apply to and extend from the combined TAM/TPBframework used here. It is also likely that more moderating effects may be identified in further studies of the effects of personalization, for example by experience, or by organizational roles Findings in this study also have implications for enterprise portal designers and for IS-managers implementing enterprise portals. Because personalization is shown to have positive effects on ease of use, usefulness, attitude towards use and behavioural control, financial and attentional investments in providing enterprise portals with rich personalization features are substantiated. Our results showing that the effects of personalization features affects male and female end-users differently, also indicate that designers and IS-managers that implement enterprise portals should take into consideration which elements of the portal to personalize, and most importantly, for which user categories should personalization be most comprehensive. Further research on effect differences between user categories is required, but personalization of the kind investigated in this study is something that should be focused particularly in organizations with a majority of female employees to stimulate an d promote enterprise portal use  6. References  1 H  Se ng F  F-H  N a h  a nd K  Sia u  An experimental study on ubiquitous commerce adoption: Impact of personalization and privacy concerns Journal of the Association for Information Systems, \(9:6\ 2008, pp. 344376  2 K  Y  T a m  a nd S.Y  H o   W e b pe rs ona liz a tio n a s a  persuasion strategy: An elaboration likelihood model perspective." Information Systems Research, \(16:3 September 2005, pp.  271-291  3 N  F. A w a d, a nd M.S. K r is hna n The personalization privacy paradox: An empirical evaluation of information transparency and the willingness to be profiled online for personalization MIS Quarterly, \(30:1\March 2006, pp. 1328  4 N. Ku m a r an d I. Ben b a sat   The influence of recommendations and consumer reviews on evaluations of websites Information Systems Research, \(17:4\ecember 2006, pp. 425-429  5 M.A  Sm ith Portals: Toward an application framework for interoperability Communications of the ACM, \(47:10 October 2004, pp. 93-97   R S c h eep ers  A conceptual framework for the implementation of enterprise information portals in large organizations European Journal of Information Systems 15\, 2006, pp. 635-647  7 E Fria s Ma r tine z   S. Y  C h e n, a n d  X  L i u A utom a tic  cognitive style identification of digital library users for personalization", Journal of The American Society for Information Science and Technology, \(58:2\, 2007, pp. 237251  8 J  Blom   P e r s ona liz a tio n A  T a x onom y  Ex te nde d abstracts of the HCI 2000 conference on human factors in computing systems, Seattle, 2000, pp.  313-314  9 A  H e nr ik s e n I nf or m a tion sy s t em s a s a  m e dium  f o r  identity expression." Proceedings of the 30th Information Systems Research Seminar in Scandinavia IRIS 30, Tampere Finland, August 2007, pp. 1145-1159  10 A  Oula sv irta a n d J Blom  Motivations in personalisation behaviour Interacting with Computers, \(20 2007, pp. 1-16  1  M  W e l l s   Office clutter or meaningful personal displays: The role of office personalization in employee and organizational well-being Journal of Environmental Psychology, \(20\000, pp. 239-255  12 I  B e nba s a t, a n d H  B a rk i Quo vadis, TAM Journal of the Association of Information Systems, \(8:4\ April 2007 pp. 211-218  13 A j z e n I.  A ttitude s, pe rso n a lity a nd be ha v i our, O p e n  University Press., Milton Keynes, UK, 1988  14 F.D D a v i s   P e r c e iv e d us ef ulne s s  pe r c e i v e d e a s e o f us e   and user acceptance of information technology." MIS Quarterly, 1989, pp. 319-339  15 S. T a y l or a nd P  T o dd Assessing IT usage: The role of prior experience MIS Quarterly, \(19:4\, December 1995 pp. 561-570 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


 16 F i shbe i n  M. a n d I. A j z e n Be lie f  a ttitude inte ntio n a n d  behavior, An introduction to theory and research, AddisonWesley, Reading, MA, 1975  17 C  S L i n, a n d S. W u   E x p loring t h e im pa c t of on line  service quality on portal site usage", Proceedings of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences , IEEE 2002, pp. 206-214  18 J  H  So ng a nd G  M. Zink h a n D e t e r m i na nts of perceived web site interactivity", Journal of Marketing, \(70 2008, pp. 99-113  19  V Ve nk a t e s h, M.G  Morris   G  B  D a v i s  a nd F.D  D a v i s   User acceptance of information technology, toward A unified view", MIS Quarterly, \(27:3\ptember 2003, pp 425-478  20 S  T a y l or a nd P.A  T odd  U nde rs ta nding inf o rm a tion technology usage: A Test of competing models", Information Systems Research, \(6:2\95, pp. 144-176  2 T  H  G r eer  an d M  B M u rt aza   W eb p e rso n a lizatio n   The impact of perceived innovation characteristics on the intention to use personalization", Journal of Computer Information Systems, 2003, pp. 50-55  22 R.W  T a fa rodi, S. Me hra n v a r, R L  P a nto n a nd A  B Milne, "Putting oneself in the Task: Choice, Personalization and Confidence", Society for Personality and Social Psychology, \(28:5\ May 2002, pp. 648-658  23 C M.K  Che ung M.K  O  L e e  a nd Z. C h e n  Using the Internet as a learning medium: An exploration of gender difference in the adoption of FaBWeb Proceedings of the 35 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE, 2002, pp. 475-483  2 L C  S c h a up p an d L C a r t er   E-voting: from apathy to adoption Journal of Enterprise Information Management 18:5\, 2005, pp. 586-601  25 H  N y s v e e n P  E P e de rs e n a nd H  T hor bj rns e n   Intentions to use mobile services: Antecedents and crossservice comparisons Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science  33: 3\ 2005, pp. 1-17  26 S  Shim M.A  Ea stlic k S. L  L o tz a nd P  W a rring to n  An online prepurchase intentions model: The role of intention to search Journal of Retailing, \(77:3\, 2001, pp 397-416  27  V. Ve nk a t e s h, a nd M.G  Mor r i s   Why don t men ever stop to ask for directions? Gender, social influence, and their role in technology acceptance and usage behaviour MIS Quarterly, \(24;1\March 2000, pp. 115-139  28 R. G o o d rich   The perceived office: the office environment as experienced by its users In J. D. Wineman Ed.\havioral Issues in Offices Design. New York Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1986, pp. 109-133  29 CS  On g  a n d J-Y. L a y   Gender differences in perceptions and relationship among dominants of e-learning acceptance Computers in Human Behavior, \(22\, 2006, pp 816-829  30 A  H e nrik s e n W h y do s o m e indiv i dua ls pe rs o n a liz e  their information systems while others don t?", Proceedings of the Norwegian conference for organizations use of information technology \(NOKOBIT 2007\, Tapir, 2007, pp 117-132  31 S S. Srin iv a s a n R A nde rs on, a nd K   P o nna v o l u   Customer loyalty in e-commerce: an exploration of its antecedents and consequences", Journal of Retailing, \(78 2002, pp.  41-50  32 T  L e e  T he im pa c t of pe rc e p tions of inte ra c tiv ity on customer trust and transaction intentions in mobile commerce", Journal of Electronic Commerce Research, \(6:3 2005, pp. 165-180  33  M. W o lf inba rg e r a n d M.C. G illy  e T a ilQ  dimensionalizing, measuring and predicting etail quality Journal of Retailing, \(79\2003, pp. 183-198  34 S  Y  X. K o m i a k a nd I  B e nba s a t T he ef f e c t s of  personalization and familiarity on trust and adoption of recommendation agents", MIS Quarterly, \(30:4\ecember 2006, pp.  941-960  35  P  A  P a v l o u a nd M  Fy ge ns on Understanding and predicting electronic commerce adoption: An extension of the theory of planned behavior MIS Quarterly, \(30:1 March 2006, pp. 115-143  36 A  H e nrik s e n, a n d P.E P e de rs e n  The application of structural equation modelling in information systems research In Proceedings of the Fifteenth European Conference on Information Systems, St. Gallen, Switzerland 2007, pp. 1469-1480  37 H a ir J  F W  C. Bla c k B.J   Ba bin, R E. A nde rs on a n d R.L. Tatham, Multivariate data analysis, 6th Edition, Pearson Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 2006  38 B o lle n K.A Struc t ura l Equa ti ons Mo de lling w ith Latent Variables, Wiley, New York, 1989    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


Appendix A Construct Item wording Factor loading Perceived personalization The system s content is adjusted to my situation 0.80 The system enables me to find information adjusted to me 0.83 The system knows what I want 0.84  I believe that the system is adjusted to me 0.88  I perceive that the system is sensitive to my preferences 0.88 The system has features that are adjusted to me 0.88 Perceived ease of use I find it easy to learn the system 0.91  I find it easy to get the system to do what I want it to 0.90  The use of the system is clear and understandable 0.92 I find the system easy to use 0.93 Attitude Good / Bad 0.89  Foolish / Wise 0.91  Negative / Positive 0.91 Perceived usefulness The system improves my job performance 0.92 Using the system in my job increases my productivity 0.93 The system makes it easier for me to do my job 0.94 I find the system useful in my job 0.89 Perceived behaviour control I feel I am able to use the system 0.91 Using the system is entirely within my control 0.89  Generally, I have the ability and resources I need to use the system 0.86 Subjective norm My colleagues would think that I should use the system 0.87  People who influence my behaviour would think that I should use the system  0.93  People who are important to me would think that I should use the system  0.90 Intention I intend to use the system the next 3 months 0.89  The next 3 months I intend to use the system a lot 0.94  I intend to use the system daily the next 3 months 0.90  Appendix B Hypotheses Supported or not supported H1a: Personalization will influence perceived ease of use of enterprise portals positively Supported H1b: Personalization will influence perceived usefulness of enterprise portals positively Supported H1c: Personalization will influence attitude towards using enterprise portals positively Supported H1d: Personalization will influence perceived behaviour control of enterprise portals positively Supported H1e: Personalization will influence behavioural intention to use enterprise portals positively Not supported H2a: Personalization will influence perceived ease of use more strongly for women than it will for men Supported H2b: Personalization will influence perceived usefulness more strongly for men than it will for women Not supported H2c: Personalization will influence perceived behaviour control more strongly for women than it will for men Supported H2d: Personalization will influence behavioural intention to use enterprise portals more strongly for women than it will for men Not supported  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


 12 7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This research task started with an all-FORTRAN implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm converted it to C code, and developed a number of H W/SW systems on the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA The execution ti me of the all software C implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm was recorded and used for comparison as a base case Two software-based optimizations were applied that reduced the executi on time by more than 4.5x These included modifying the cod e to use all single-precision math library functions no n-ANSI when dealing with single-precision data and utilizi ng the IBM Performance Libraries  Perflib  to improve the speed of all single and double-precision arithmetic The idea of using a DP-only Perflib was introduced and then used in conjunction with the single-precision APU-FPU to fu rther improve system performance The bulk of the research dealt with looking into ha rdwarebased improvements to the FTIR spectrometry system  These included the Xilinx APU-FPU, and a single-pre cision dot-product co-processor The APU-FPU delivered significant speedup for all single-precision floati ng-point operations The dot-product co-processor although ineffective in the FTIR spectrometry system due to poor spatial locality of the data, showed nearly a 2x im provement over the APU-FPU when working with smaller, sequent ially accessed data sets Furthermore it was implemented  as a load/store-based APU-connected FCM thus establishin g a reference for creating similar APU co-processors T he design of a non-system-bused CPU-coupled co-process or is frequently overlooked in design guides yet it is a  very effective way to offload software routines to hardw are implementation The ML410 development board on which all of this w ork was conducted, hosts the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA contain ing two PPC405 processors This research task focused o n optimizing the performance of the FTIR spectrometry  algorithm on a single PPC405 core, however, the des ign can be extended to utilize both available cores. Figure 16 on the following page shows a dual-core design that can be  implemented on the ML410 board The two PPC405 processors each have dedicated PLB interfaces but s hare a common OPB. On the common OPB, the processors need to negotiate access to the RS232 UART and SystemACE CF  controller. This negotiation can be done through du al-ported shared BRAM accessible by each processor from thei r respective PLB. The ML410 board has two external me mory interfaces that are both utilized in this concept PPC405 CPU0 uses the DDR2 DIMM 256 Mbytes while PPC405 CPU1 utilizes the DDR on-board component memory 64  Mbytes\. Each of the processors has some dedicated on-chip memory OCM connected through OCM interface The instruction side OCM is particularly necessary so e ach processor can store its own boot code in its own on chip memory as booting both processors from external mem ory may not be possible Both processors have their own FPUs connected on dedicated FCB interfaces Since the processing of individual interferograms is a comple tely independent task an up to 2x reduction in executio n time may be possible with a dual-core system However o ne bottleneck that may limit the speedup is negotiatin g access to the shared CF card controller Additional improvement to the overall performance o f the FTIR spectrometry system may be possible by rewriti ng the software in C. The automatic conversion from FORTRA N to C using f2c most likely does not produce optimal code, and it is certainly not appealing to read Some functio ns may also need to be rewritten with an optimized pattern  of data access This can help in cases such as the dot-prod uct coprocessor Further performance improvement may be achieved by trying a different compiler one that is specifical ly targeted for the embedded PPC405 processor A V2P performanc e study done at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center concluded that using the WindRiver Diab DCC 5.2 com piler provides a 38 performance increase over the GNU-GC C 3.4 compiler The comparison was based on running a  Dhrystone benchmark application on a 400 MHz PPC405 design The GNU-GCC compiler achieved 458 DMIPS while the WindRiver Diab DCC achieved 628 DMIPS as  reported by Xilinx\ [10   Implementing additional hardware co-processors may result in the further reduction of execution time Using t he dotproduct design as a reference the FFT function fo r example can be implemented in the hardware This w ill help in the spectrum computation component of the s oftware processing. It may be necessary to re-arrange the d ata access pattern for optimal co-processor performance to av oid the pitfall seen when deploying the dot-product core Finally, no embedded processing system is complete without an OS. Linux is a good choice and is supported by X ilinx in EDK It is important to first finalize the hardware  design prior to deploying the OS Support for the APU may be lacking in Linux and getting the OS to recognize th e hardware FPU may be a project in itself For the FTIR spectrometry algorithm this research task started the process of moving from an all software system to a mixed HW/SW implementation on the V4FX60 hybridFPGA In the best case a more than 8x speedup was achieved compared to the FTIR base system This implementation, although nearly 2x faster the V2P s ystem at NASA JPL still lags behind the current state-of-th e-art space processor  the BAE RAD750 However the marg in between the two was narrowed down significantly and with further research as suggested above will most lik ely be eliminated altogether Directly benefiting from the  work presented in this paper is a 3-year JPL technology 


 13 development task that will support the MATMOS on-bo ard processing implementation for a future flight i nstrument   Fig. 16 Dual-core concept targeting ML410 development boar d 


 14 R EFERENCES  1  D L Bekker Hardware and Software Optimization of Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry on HybridFPGAs  MS Thesis Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY August 2007 Available http://hdl.handle.net/1850/4805  2  P J Pingree J.-F L Blavier G C Toon and D  L Bekker An FPGA/SoC Approach to On-Board Data Processing  Enabling New Mars Science with Smart Payloads in IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  Big Sky MT March 2007 Available http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?isnu mber=4 144550&arnumber=4161501  3  S I Feldman D M Gay M W Maimone and N L Schryer, ìA Fortran-to-C Converter,î Computing Scie nce Technical Report 149, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murra y Hill NJ March 22 1995 Available http://www.netlib.org/f2c/f2c.pdf  4  IBM PowerPC Embedded Processor Performance Libraries tech rep IBM Microelectronics Divisi on Hopewell Junction, NY, December 12 2003 5  Virtex-4 Data Sheet: DC and Switching Characterist ics Datasheet DS302 Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 27 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/publications/ds302.pdf  6  ML410 Embedded Development Platform  Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 6 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug085.pdf  7  G Toon J.-F Blavier M McAuley and A Kiely Advanced On-Board Science Data Processing System for a Mars-orbiting FTIR Spectrometer R&TD Task 01STCR  R.05.023.048 NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena, CA, 2005 8  APU Floating-Point Unit v3.0 product specificati on Xilinx Inc San Jose CA January 26 2007 Availa ble http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/ipcenter/data_sheet/ap u_fp u.pdf  9  PowerPC 405 Processor Block Reference Guide Xilinx Inc San Jose CA July 20 2005 Available www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug018.pdf  10  D. Petrick, ìAnalyzing the Xilinx Virtex-II Pro Pow erPC with the Dhrystone Benchmark Applications,î tech. r ep NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt Maryland Available http://klabs.org/DEI/Processor/PowerPC/v2pro_ppc_pe rf ormance_petrick.doc  B IOGRAPHY  Dmitriy Bekker has just completed his Masters Degree in Computer Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His areas of interest include FPGAs embedded systems digital signal processing and system architecture. He has coop  internship experience working at Brookhaven National Laboratory Syracuse Research Corporation NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He recen tly won in the 2006 IEEE Student Design Contest for his pro ject in autonomous vehicle navigation. He is a member of IE EE Dr Lukowiak is an assistant professor in the Computer Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His research interests are concentrated in the area of multidisciplinary projects that require modeling and hardware implementations FPGA and ASIC of data processing systems Dr Marcin Lukowi ak obtained his Ph.D in Technical Sciences from the P oznan University of Technology in October 2001 Muhammad Shaaban is an associate professor of computer engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology His research interests include high performance computing processor microarchitecture heterogeneous and reconfigurable computing Shaaban has a PhD in Computer Engineering from the University of Souther n California. He is a senior member of the IEEE Dr. Blavier first joined the JPLMkIV Team in August 1985 as a contractor from Ball Aerospace He participated in the MkIV campaigns in McMurdo Antarctica groundbased and from Punta Arenas Chile NASA DC-8 In late 1987, he started graduate work with Profs Delbouille and Dubois at the University  of LiËge Belgium his research tasks included install ing the 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in LiËge for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f LiËge in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


