Quantitative Association Rules Mining Methods with Privacy-preserving CHEN Zi-Yang  LIU Guo-Hua  000G Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Yanshan University, Qinhuangdao 066004 China E-mail:zychen@ysu.edu.cn Abstract Considering the different size of quantitative attribute values and categorical attribute values in databases, we present two quantitative association rules mining methods with privacy-preserving respectively, one bases on Boolean association rules which is suitable for the smaller size of quantitative attribute values and categorical attribute values in databases; the other one bases on partially transforming measures, which is suitable for the larger ones. To each approach, the privacy and accuracy are analyzed, and the correctness and feasibility are proven by experiments 1. Introduction  R.Agrawal et al. proposed the importance of privacy-preserving in data mining and the method of privacy-preserving in 2000 1 In 2002, S.J.Rizvi et al discussed the privacy-preserving of association rules mining problem in paper[2,3 T h e priv a c y pres er v i n g  in Boolean association rules mining was resolved in paper bu t th e priv a c y pres erv i n g i n qu an t itati v e  association rules mining was not discussed. In practical application, the attributes are mainly quantitative or categorical, and Boolean attributes can be considered as a special case of categorical attributes  2. Privacy-preserving of Quantitative Association Rules Mining Methods Based on Boolean Association Rules In this approach, we first define a transform function for quantitative attributes and categorical attributes Then all the quantitative attributes and categorical attributes in the original dataset are mapped into 0 or 1 to get a Boolean dataset. Last we handle this Boolean dataset to do mining, using the privacy-preserving method of Boolean association rules provided by S.J.Rizvi Obtaining the Boolean values, We use the mining method of Boolean association rules presented by MASK in e n e r a te th e di s t orted v ector b y  computing Y= distort \(X\where Yi r Xi XOR i r  i r is the complement of ri, a random variable with 0 002\372 p 002\372 1\That is ri is valued of 1 with probability p and 0 with probability 1-p.The experiments indicate that it is possible to simultaneously achieve satisfactory of privacy and accuracy through a careful choice of distortion probability. In particular, they shows that both of the two goals can be met in the condition of p=0.9 Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing, Applic ations and Technologies \(PDCAT\2220 5 0-7695-2405-2/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


ing Method of Quantitative attributes and Categorical attributes When thinking over how to partition the quantitative attributes into intervals and how to determine the the decision of intervals\220 partition of the least information loss base on partial completeness 4  3.1 Determining the number of Partitions Theorem 3.1 Consider a quantitative attribute x, and some real K>1. Assume we partition x into intervals called base intervals\ such that for any base interval B either the support of B is less than minsup 000\335 K-1 B consists of a single value. Let P denote the set of all combinations of base intervals that have minimum support. Then P is K-complete respected to the set of all ranges over x with minimum support 4  Theorem 3.1 defines the maximum support of the base intervals. Let s be the max support of an interval according to the Theorem 3.1, we can get s=minsup 000\335 K-1\us K=1+2 000\335 s/minsup                  \(1 At the same time, we discuss the effect of K upon privacy. Privacy should be defined as the probability we can not reconstruct the true values from the interval values, which is the complement of the reconstruction probability. The formula is P=1 K 1 K>1  Because equip-depth partitioning minimizes the number of intervals required to satisfy that partial completeness level 5 Assuming that equip-depth partitioning splits the support identically, there should be 1/s partitions in order to get the support of each partition being less than s. Thus we get  Number of intervals 1 2 212\327 Km 000G\000G\000G\000G\000G\000G\000G\000G\000G\000G\000G\000O\000Y\000P\000G Where m is the minimum support, K is the partial completeness level 3.2 Partially Transform Measure Partially Transform 1 Let Y=n-X+1, where Y is the transformed integer values, X is the original integer values, n=max \(X Partially Transform 2 Let n=max\(X\, when n is an even number, m 001 001 002 003 003 004  2 1 n if X<m, Y=X+m-1, if X 002\373 m Y=X-m+1; When n is an odd number, m 2 1 n  if X 002\372 m, Y=X+m-1, if X>m, Y=X-m. Where X f\260 Y is the same as the definition of Partially Transform 1  Partially Transform 3 Let Y=X-x, x=1\203n, if Y 002\372 0 then Y=X r\027 Y n where X f\260 Y is the same as the definition of Partially Transform 1, n=max\(X n denotes the n th Y Partially Transform 4 Using the matrix operation the original data values. The transform process is shown as follows   nn n a a a n 327 001 001 001 001 005 002 003 003 003 003 006 004 327 00  0...0 0...0 2,1 2 1   n rrr  21  where r i is one member of the set {1,\203n} and r i 007 r j  a i is the transform variable  4 Algorithm Based on Partially Transform Algorithm Finding frequent predicate sets Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing, Applic ations and Technologies \(PDCAT\2220 5 0-7695-2405-2/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


Input Database D, attribute sets U={u 1 u 2 203u n  Array A[1,\203n s toring t h e n u m b er of i n ter v als o f  different attributes\, min_sup tput L, frequent predicate sets in D Method 1 0018 0020\r 2\or i=1 to n do T[i  0018 0020\r For j=1 to A  T  i 0018 T[i r\b 1-frequent predicate sets of the j th interval of attribute u j  L[1  0018 L[1 r\b T  3 0018 2 4\hile L[i\002\370\0020 do C  0018 aprioriGen \(L[i-1 m i n_s u p   P 0018 0020  For each  r r\002 D  do P 0018 P r\b subset\(C  L[i  0018 0020  For each  p r\002 P  do if \(support_count of p 002\373 min_sup\ then  L[i  0018 L[i  r\b p i 0018 i+1 5 0018  6\eturn \(L[k  6.Conclusion In this paper we analyzed the privacy-preserving of quantitative association rules mining, presented privacy-preserving methods based on Boolean association rules and the partially transform measure References 1 R.A g r a w al an d R.Srik an t 215P r i v a c y P rserv in g Data  Mining\216, Proc. of ACM SIGMOD Intl. Conf. on Management of Data, May 2000 2 Y.S aygi n  V  V e r y ki o s an d A  E l magar m i d  215P r i vac y Preserving Association Rule Mining\216, Proc. of 12th Intl Workshop on  Research Issues in Data Engineering \(RIDE February 2002  S  J  Ri zvi an d J R Hari t s a 215 M ai n t ai n i n g Dat a P r i v ac y i n  Association Rule Mining\216, Proc. of 28th Intl. Conf. on Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB\, September 2002 4 R.Srik a n t a n d R.A g r a w a l, \215 M ining Qua ntita tiv e  Association Rules in Large Relational Tables\216, Proc.of ACM SIGMOD Intl. conference on Management of Data, June 1996 5 R.J Mille r a n d Y.Ya ng A ssoc ia tion 215 R ule s ov e r In te rv a l  Data\216, In Proc. 1997 ACM-SIGMOD Int.Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD\22097\, pages 452-461,Tucson.AZ,May 1997 Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing, Applic ations and Technologies \(PDCAT\2220 5 0-7695-2405-2/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


dence factor according to the correspondent rule Constraints 1. Each attribute corresponds to a meteorological variable, such as temperature, pressure, dew point wind, clouds, visibility, condition and so on 2. The last attribute   as the attribute corresponding to the meteorological variable condition 3.  is a set of predictions according to the attributes in set  except 4. Every attribute appears at most once in the prediction set 5. The support factor should be greater than or equal to the given minsup 6. The con?dence factor should be greater than or equal to the given minconf The following rule is an example of dynamic association rule decrease\(Temperature,5 Pressure,0.6 shower[s=3%, c=30 3.2. Parameter Speci?cation In above formulation, the problem of rule mining has the following issues which are needed to be clari?ed 1 tion rules are: increase, decrease, equal and direction-range Two-digit numbers are used to report wind direction to the nearest tens of degrees. Thus, 02 represents 20 ? , 18 is 180 and 32 is 320 ? . North is always taken as 360 ? and is reported as 36 2 perfect”, at least in the general features, and the 72-hour forecasts of today are as accurate as 36-hour forecasts were just ten to twenty years ago [15]. To make our discovery more useful, the moderate range of the record used to discover should be within 36-hour Proceedings of the 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference \(COMPSAC’04 0730-3157/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE Different sever weather situationwill need different time period for forecasting. The sever situations with high speed generation process, such as thunderstorms, need shorter observation period. Others may need a little longer period once per day or twice per day 3 speci?c seasons. For example, hurricanes often happen in the South of America in summer and blizzards concentrate in the Midwest of America in winter and spring and scarcely happen in other seasons. We will use different con 


straint values for those situations depending more on seasons within the process of discovery 4. Dynamic Interdimension Association rules for Local-scale weather prediction \(DIAL Algorithm In general, the DIAL algorithm consists of the following three phases 1. Phase I: Database Transformation 2. Phase II: Generating the Quantitative Association Rules 3. Phase III: Generating the Dynamic Interdimension Association Rules 4.1. Phase I: Database Transformation The original database  storing the observation data needs to be transformed into a new database   storing the change of each attributes according to the situation. The database   has the same attributes as the database  . The method for generating new tuples is described as follows 1. from    =2 for all tuples in the database 2. for every attributes   in this tuple     do 3. if Name 4  5. else if   = Null 6 Null 7. else if     Null 8 compare         


9. else 10 Null 11. add into   12. endfor 13. add   into 14. endfor 4.2. Phase II: Generating the Quantitative Association Rules After generating the new database   describing the change of each attribute, we try to discovery the frequent itemsets. Much of the data in   are continuous but not discrete. Therefore, we cannot use ordinary method [3 such as Apriori algorithm, to generate frequent itemsets. We should use the algorithm mentioned in [14] to generate the rules. The following issues should be clari?ed before using the algorithm 1 ments of the weather need different partition rules. Following is the detail of the rule Temperature: The partition of temperature difference would be  \(-  , -20 0 0, 5], \(5, 10], \(10, 15], \(15 Humidity: The partition of humidity difference is the same as that of temperature Dew Point: Dew point is related to temperature. Therefore they are using the same partition Wind Speed: The partition of wind-speed difference is as follows:  \(-  , -40 0 0, 5], \(5, 10], \(10, 20], \(20, 40], \(40 Wind Direction: The partition of wind-direction is as follows:  \(0,6], \(6, 12], \(12, 18], \(18, 24], \(24, 30], \(30 36 Pressure: Its partition is:  \(-  , -0.8 0.4  0.2, 0.4], \(0.4, 0.6 0.6, 0.8], \(0.8 Visibility: Its partition is:  \(-  , -4 2, -1  1, 2], \(2, 3], \(3, 4], \(4 Precipitation:Use the same partition as that of pressure 2 


tion should be set in proportion to the appearance probability within a whole year 4.3. Phase III: Generating the Dynamic Interdimension Association Rules After Phase II, we discover some quantitative association rules. At this time we introduce our prede?ned predicates into these rules to generate the dynamic interdimension association rules. Since many of the items consisting of the rules are ranges, we can either still use this range or the mean value of the range to express those items. The rules generated include the associations of all of the weather condition, not only those severe conditions. The ?nal phase of this algorithm needs more interaction between the algorithm and the end-user so that the discovery may get a much better result 5. Experience with a real-life dataset We assessed the correctness and effectiveness of our algorithm by experimenting with a real-life dataset. The data were weather record data of Dallas City from April 2002 to June 2002 [1]. The data had ten attributes which include Proceedings of the 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference \(COMPSAC’04 0730-3157/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE eight quantitative attributes and two categorical attributes There were 1092 records in the dataset 5.1. Experiment Design The datasets getting from Weather Underground and NCDC are raw data.The most distinct weather changes which happen in all spring and the early summer according to Dallas City. Therefore choosing this part of data can clearly re?ect the relation between the meteorological variables and the weather conditions. The ?rst step of our experiment is to rearrange the dataset. The ?rst phase of our algorithm is to build a new database re?ecting the changing tendency of the meteorological variables. After this phase determing the number of partitions for each quantitative attribute and how to partition should be accomplished. In the second phase of our algorithm, we use the algorithm in [14 to generate the frequent itemsets. The algorithm used to generate association rules is different to the traditional algorithm in [3]. In our algorithm we only generate rule whose right-hand-side only contains the DYSW attribute. The ?nal phase will use our prede?ned predicates to generate the dynamic interdimension association rules 5.2. Result Evaluation Evaluating the usefulness of the results from running our algorithm need some special review. However, some rules we get are pretty straightforward. The following rule is generated when we set minsup to 8% and minconf to 20 direction range \(RDIR, 12..18 DPTP, 0..5 


Thunder-Storm [ s = 8%, c = 20 Dallas City is located near Gulf of Mexico which is located in the southeast of the city. When the warm air?ow moves toward northwest, it is moisture-conditioned. After its landing, it will meet some cold air?ow existing in the land. If the warm air?ow is stronger than the cold one, it can still go north and push the cold one back. Along this way, there will be a plenty of precipitation. Now looks back to the geographical position of Dallas City. It’s just on the way of the warm air?ow and the distance between the city and the coast is also not very far. That is why the warm air?ow can bring much precipitation to this city from southeast. When warm air?ow comes, the relative humility will increase which will make the dew point increase 6. Conclusions In this paper, we introduce the problem of mining dynamic interdimension association rules for local-scale severe weather prediction. We ?rst transform the original weather record database into a new database expressing the change tendencies of the measurements of the weather Then we use the algorithm for mining quantitative association rules to generate the result rules in quantitative format Finally, we introduce some predicates to generate the ?nal rules In this paper, we focus on the time-related measurements of weather. In the future, we will incorporate the spacerelated measurements for weather prediction. In addition we will improve our model so that it will ?t for a regional even global weather prediction References 1] Daily surface data. US and some non-US format Documentation, 2002 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. N. Swami. Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases. In Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, Washington, D.C., 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. In Proc. 20th Int. Conf. Very LargeData Bases VLDB, pages 487–499. Morgan Kaufmann, 1994 4] P. F. Baldi and S. Brunak. Bioinformatics: The machine learning approach. MIT Press, Cambridge London, 1998 5] C. Elkan. Shared challenges in data mining and computational biology. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Data Mining in Bioinformatics, San Francisco, CA 2001 6] K. A. Emanuel. The role of water in atmospheric dynamics and climate. Meteorology at the Millennium, 2002 7] U. M. Fayyad, S. G. Djorgovski, and N. Weir. Automating the analysis and cataloging of sky surveys. Advances in knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 471–493, 1996 


8] M. Gahegan. Data mining and knowledge discovery in the geographical domain 9] J. R. Holton, J. A. Curry, and J. A. Pyle. Encyclopedia of atmospheric sciences. Academic Press, Boston, 2002 10] Z. Kou, W. W. Cohen, and R. F. Murphy. Extracting information from text and images for location proteomics. In Proceedings of the 3nd ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Data Mining in Bioinformatics, Washington, DC, 2003 11] V. Kumar, M. Steinbach, P. Tan, S. Klooster, C. Potter, and A. Torregrosa. Mining scienti?c data: Discovery of patterns in the global climate system. In Proceedings of the Joint Statistical Meetings, Athens, GA, 2001 12] P. Lynch. Weather forecasting from woolly art to solid science. Meteorology at the Millennium, pages 106–119, 2002 13] T. N. Palmer. Predicting uncertainty in numerical weather forecasts. Meteorology at the Millennium, pages 3–13, 2002 14] R. Srikant and R. Agrawal. Mining quantitative association rules in large relational tables. In Proceedings of the 1996 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, pages 1–12, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, 1996 15] A. J. Stevermer. Recent advances and issues in meteorology Oryx Press, London, 2002 16] B. Zupan, E. T. Keravnou, and N. Lavrac. Intelligent Data Analysis in Medicine and Pharmacology. Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1997 Proceedings of the 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference \(COMPSAC’04 0730-3157/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 


variable names mapped by the where keyword to the relation in DataSchema and pv are variable names that appear in the StructureSchema At instantiation time pv is assigned values of the Structure component and dv is mapped to the relation appearing in Data component. The de?nition for the pattern well-formed formula is now straightforward De?nition 14 A pattern formula is of the form fp\(dv 2 where fp \(formula predicate variablesmapped by thewhere keyword to the relation appearing in Data component From the previous de?nitions the semantics of the where keyword become evident: we impose that the variables of the formula will take values from speci?c relations when the formula predicate is employed in queries Example 2 Let us consider the following formulas 1. f\(x x 2. f\(g\(x x In the ?rst formula variable x is mapped to R using the where keyword, thus the formula is well formed. Keep in mind that the formula predicate by itself is just the part f\(x is not well-formed since y is not mapped via where to any relation, or otherwise range restricted 5. Querying the Pattern Warehouse We de?ne queries to be posed over the pattern warehouse and not individually over its data- or patternbase components. Through this approach, we are able to sustain queries traversing from the pattern to the data space and vice-versa. At the same time, the consistency of the results is guaranteed by the pattern-data mapping De?nition 15 Let PW the set of all possible Pattern Warehouses. A query is a function with signature PW ? PW. Given a query q and a pattern warehouse pw = \(DB,PB D?B, P?B q\(pw DB?, PB   P?B? = ?[D?1, ..., D?m], [P?C1:PT1]?. We assume that tr, tp\(tr ? R1 ? tp ? PC1 tr, tp Note that, similarly to the relational case, the result of a query is always a pattern warehouse containing just one relation and one pattern class. It is also important to point out that, in practice, even if a query always involve both the data and pattern space, operations over patterns are executed in isolation, locally at the PBMS. The reference to the underlying data is activated only on-demand \(whenever the user speci?cally requests so stored intermediate mappings or the formula approximation 5.1. Query operators In this section we introduce query operators that allow basic queries over the the PW . Assuming that DB denotes the set of all possible database instances and PB the set of all possible pattern bases, we consider the following groups of operators  Database operators: they can be applied locally to the DBMS. op : DB ? DB. We denote the set of database operators with OD  Pattern base operators: they can be applied locally to the PBMS. op : PB ? PB. We denote the set of database operators with OP  Cross-over database operators: they involve evaluation on both the DBMS and the PBMS, the result is a database. op : DB  PB ? DB. We denote the set of database operators with OCD  Cross-over pattern base operators: they involve evaluation on both the DBMS and the PBMS, the 


evaluation on both the DBMS and the PBMS, the result is a pattern base. op : DB  PB ? PB. We denote the set of database operators with OCP In the following, we present examples of the last three classes of operators \(database operators coincide with usual relational operators operators, we introduce some examples of predicates de?ned over patterns Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE 5.1.1. Pattern predicates We identify two main classes of atomic predicates: predicates over patterns and predicates over pattern components. From those atomic predicates we can then construct complex predicates. In the following, we denote pattern components by using the dot notation. For example, the measure component of a pattern p is denoted by p.Measure Predicates over pattern components. They check properties of speci?c pattern components. Let p1 and p2 be two patterns, possibly selected by some queries. The general form of a predicate over pattern components is t1?t2, where t1 and t2 are path expressions that must de?ne components of patterns p1 and p2, of compatible type and ? must be an operator, de?ned for the type of t1 and t2. For example, if t1 and t2 are integer expressions, then ? can be a disequality operator e.g. one of &lt;,&gt cases  If t1 and t2 are pattern data for patterns p1 and p2, then ? ? {=,?}. t1 = t2 is true if and only if x x ?? p1 ? x ?? p2 and t1 ? t2 is true if and only if ?x x ?? p1 ? x ?? p2  If t1 and t2 are pattern formulas for patterns p1 a n d  p 2   t h e n             t 1    t 2  i s  t r u e  i f  a n d o n l y  i f  t 1    t 2  a n d  t 1    t 2  i s  t r u e  i f  a n d  o n l y  i f  t 1 logically implies t2 Predicates over patterns. We consider the following set of predicates  Identity if they have the same PID, i.e. p1.P ID = p2.P ID  Shallow equality \(=s are shallow equal if their corresponding components \(except for the PID component i.e. p1.Structure = p2.Structure, p1.Source p2.Source, p1.Measure = p2.Measure, and p1.formula = p2.formula. Note that, to check the equality for each component pair, the basic equality operator for the speci?c component type is used  Deep equality \(=d deep equal if their corresponding data are identical, i.e., ?x x ?? p1 ? x ?? p2   S u b s u m p t i o n       A  p a t t e r n  p 1  s u b s u m e s  a  p a t t e r n  p 2   p 1    p 2   i f  t h e y  h a v e  t h e  s a m e  s t r u c ture but p2 represents a smaller set of raw data i.e. p1.Structure = p2.Structure, p1.Source p 2  S o u r c e  a n d  p 1  f o r m u l a    p 2  f o r m u l a  Complex predicates. They are de?ned by applying usual logical connectives to atomic predicates. Thus, if F1 and F2 are predicates, then F1 ? F2,F1 ? F2  F1 are predicates. We make a closed world assumption, thus the calculation of  F is always ?nite 5.1.2. Pattern base operators OP In this subsection, we introduce several operators de?ned over patterns. Some of them, like set-based operators, renaming and selection are quite close to their relational counterparts; nevertheless, some others, like join and projection have signi?cant di?erences Set-based operators. Since classes are sets, usual operators such as union, di?erence and intersection are de 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


