Architecture Development for Efficient Sensor Tag Management  Md. Kafil Uddin Dept. of Computer Engineering Pusan National University Pusan, Republic of Korea mdkafil@pusan.ac.kr  Gihong Kim Dept. of Computer Engineering Pusan National University Pusan, Republic of Korea buglist@pusan.ac.kr  Bonghee Hong Dept. of Computer Engineering Pusan National University Pusan, Republic of Korea bhhong@pusan.ac.kr   Abstract The possible integration of sensing information with RFID data can be accomplished by using Sensor tag instead of using RFID tag only. Although EPCglobal provides standard architecture framework for processing RFID information, the diverse RFID applications and services necessitate collection and manipulation of integrated RFID-sensing information at the same system. Systems deploying Sensor tag can achieve both ID data and sensing data simultaneously. However, it is a big system challenge to monitor sensing data and manage sensor tags using existing standards. Moreover, efficient control and management of Sensor tag moods and states is also an issue in saving tag battery power and storing necessary sensing information in sensor tag memory. To fulfill all application requirements and manipulation of RFID-sensing data require efficient management of Sensor tag. In this paper we propose a new system architecture for efficient Sensor tag management based on EPCglobal framework Keywords-Active Sensor tag;Active RFID;RFID-sensing data I  I NTRODUCTION  The evolution of sensor technology and Radio Frequency Identification \(RFID\ research makes possible integration 1,2 o f RFI D da t a a n d S e ns i ng d a t a usi ng s a m e RF t a g called Sensor Tag [3,4 S e nsor t a gs ar e i n g e ne ra l   characterized by RF identification, user memory and sensing information. RF capable sensor tags having user memory store sensing data to its memory and can transfer that data to the reader when it is in reader interrogation area. While comparing EPCglobal [5 clas s  s t ru ctu r es 6   act iv e  tag s  enable a greater communication range, can be applied to metal objects, and allow easy addition of sensing modules 7,8   Th e r ef or e a c tiv e R F ID tag  can  be u s e d  as s e n o r t a g  9  e n a b l i ng si m u l t a ne o u s i d  a n d s e nsi ng da t a t r a n sm i ssi o n  using same RF infrastructure. A large number of such tags can be deployed in cold chain management [10 supp l y  chain management systems and harbor logistics systems where huge amount of sensing data is generated Consequently, sensor tag is suitable for continuously monitoring temperature-sensitive perishables, controlling product temperature and humidity, elimination of container damage due to huge inside pressure, and automatic tracking of product location. Thus, it is possible to create a physically linked world in which every item is numbered, identified cataloged and tracked with various sensing information However, to provide proper system services using sensor tags, it is necessary to control and efficiently manage tags carrying id and sensing information   Although Sensor Tag is used to acquire integrated RFIDSensing information, the technology used in its management and control is still in its infancy. Still there is no global standard provided for RFID-Sensing data collections. In most RFID applications, heterogeneous tags such as RFID tag \(only id data\ and active sensor tag \(RFID-sensing data from various vendors are used and RFID reader must be able to retrieve data from these heterogeneous tags. Therefore compatibility and interoperability become a major system concern in using Sensor Tag. Also, sensor tag must continuously store sensing information in its tag memory But limited memory and battery power is big challenge in system deployment. Moreover, system suffers from bulk air load while transmission of sensing data in tag memory takes place. However, faster tag collection is possible using active RFID System [12 st ill co n t ro llin g sen s o r tag m o o d s an d  states is important for saving tag battery power and sensing values in tag memory We develop an efficient Sensor Tag Management SenTM\ architecture based on EPCglobal Architecture Framework [13  Ou r s t a t eof t h e a r t s y s t em arch it ectu r e follows standard active air interface ISO/IEC 18000 t o  manage and control sensor tag, tag moods and states to store battery power with sensing information. SenTM provides several APIs for receiving sensing queries, managing tags and readers, monitoring sensing values, reporting alarms and notifications to the users. SenTM also provides four service types that together form core service module for an efficient sensor tag management  In this paper, we focus on the development of efficient Sensor tag management architecture using existing standards. We analyze all the necessary standards and background technologies involved with active RFID systems, existing management architectures and related application scenarios to extract all the system requirements The main contribution of this paper is to design efficient management architecture for sensor tag that incorporates all the management requirements to provide compatibility and global interoperability of the system The structure of this paper is as follows. Section 2 describes lists of related works. Section 3 analyzes sensor tag application scenarios and active air interface standards to extract system design requirements of SenTM with some unique services. In section 4, requirements are used as brick 
2009 Third International Conference on Sensor Technologies and Applications 978-0-7695-3669-9/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/SENSORCOMM.2009.103 630 


features to build the proposed system to its fundamental to final architecture. We conclude Section 5 with avenues for further research   II  R ELATED W ORKS  A  EPCglobal Architecture Framework The Architecture Framework [13  pu b lis h e d by  EPCglobal Inc. [5 o v ide s a co m p r e he ns i v e o v er vie w  o f  the EPCglobal standards. It shows how the different interface standards are related and outlines the principles that have guided the design of the standards. The architecture framework consists of three layers: \(1\ Identification layer 2\Capture layer and \(3\ Exchange layer; and it provides several standards for all the three layers. The EPCglobal Architecture Framework does not dictate a particular system architecture, but leaves this to implementors who can choose the system architectures that are most appropriate for their deployments. Therefore, the architecture presented in this paper is based on EPCglobal Architecture Framework because it helps easy adaptation of the system over the world The interaction between RFID reader and various types of tags takes place at the bottom layer of EPCglobal Architecture Framework shown in Fig. 1. The interoperability problem that arises in reading heterogeneous RFID tag \(tag id\nd active Sensor tag \(tag id and sensing data\ can be resolved by using readers compliant with international standards, controlling and managing readers using standard management protocol. ISO/IEC 18000-7 defines standard for active RFID systems and EPCglobal provide standard Reader Management \(RM\ Protocol to control and manage the reader     Figure 1. EPCglobal Architecture Framework B  EPCglobal Reader Management \(RM Host can control and manage RFID reader device by implementing RM Protocol c i f i e d b y EP Cgl o b a l   The standard provides 3 message channels between reader and host to manage the reader device. Fig. 2 shows the 3 channels: \(1\ Command Channel, \(2\ Alarm Channel\(s\ and 3\ Notification Channel\(s\. Command channel carries request from host to reader and response from reader to host Alarm Channel\(s\rries asynchronous reader health and status alerts to the host. Notification channel\(s\ delivers tag id and tag memory data such as sensing information to the host using standard reader protocol \(RP\ [1        Reader Device Application  Alarm Commands Notification      Reader Device Application Application   Alarm Commands Notification Alarm Commands Notification            Figure 2  EPCglobal Reader Management \(RM\ Architecture  C  Active Tag Memory Accessing Mechanism Active RFID Reader uses Active Air Interface to access tag memory of an active tag. There are two ways to access the tag memory: \(1\implementing reader commands following ISO/IEC 15961 [17  a n d 15 962 1 8 2  implementing RF-interface commands based on ISO/IEC 18000-7.  Fig. 3 depicts the basic components of active reader and how it accesses active tag memory data by using active air interface. Command/Response Unit of an active reader receives the request from host and converts the request to ISO/IEC 18000-7 air interface commands. Finally reader uses tag driver to access the data stored in the tag memory Active Reader Active Tag System Data Tag ID Memory Data Convert to ISO/IEC 18000-7 Commands Tag Driver Command Response Unit 1 2 3 4 5 6 Request Response ISO/IEC 18000-7 Store data in Tag memory Receive Request and Send Response Air Interface Active Reader Active Tag System Data Tag ID Memory Data Convert to ISO/IEC 18000-7 Commands Tag Driver Command Response Unit 1 2 3 4 5 6 Request Response ISO/IEC 18000-7 Store data in Tag memory Receive Request and Send Response Air Interface  Figure 3. Active Reader and Active Tag Communication III  S EN TM  R EQUIREMENTS  A  Cold Chain Application Analysis Cold Chain Management \(CCM\ System is the biggest application domain for sensor tag deployment. Fig. 4 shows an example where sensor tag is attached to item at processing 
631 


plant and tag logs the sensing value of the item until to Store Delivery. Table1 shows the product temperature history from processing plant to store delivery. From the table we find product temperature exceeds threshold limit when it is at the Transport DC     Figure 4. Product flow in CCM Application TABLE I  T EMPERATURE RECORD IN CCM APPLICATION  Although it is necessary to send an instant alarm/notification when product temperature exceeds threshold limit, lack of proper management and system services causes loss in product quality as well as tag battery power. Moreover when battery becomes low, there occurs a significant malfunction in sensing values because sensor requires continuous battery power to store sensing values in tag memory. Therefore, immediate measures should be taken when tag battery falls down B  Enhanced Active Air Interface ISO/IEC 18000-7 defines a list of commands active reader to active tag communication. Those commands could be divided into 5 broad categories such as Information command, Memory command, Security command Collection command and Mood command. To operate active tag as sensor tag, management system requires extended air interface commands such as Logging ON/OFF, Sensing ON/OFF, Set Threshold, Set Alarm condition, Clear Sensing Memory, Reboot etc C  Required Services and APIs An efficient tag management system should provide various services for configuring tag, controlling its moods and states, managing device and data, handling events and processing queries, report generation and data storage Table2 shows the required service types and their description. An efficient management must also provide API for those services TABLE II  S EN TM APPLICATION SERVICES  Types of Services Description Tag Command  and Control Services TCCS Provides service for tag configuration, tag mood and state control Device and Data Management Services DDMS Provide services for active reader and tag device management with tag data services Event and Query Processing Services EQPS Listens to the events, handles events happened and process registered queries Data Storage and Output Services DSOS Stores sensing data in data base generate reports and sends to the users  IV  S EN TM  A RCHITECTURE D EVELOPMENT  A  Fundamental Architecture SenTM architecture development is based on the EPCglobal Architecture Framework. EPCglobal Architecture Framework Active RFID tag integrated with sensing module is considered as active sensor tag require active air interface to communicate with active reader for sensing data transmission. Therefore, EPCglobal Architecture Framework requires minor modification to represent SenTM application, which is shown in Fig. 5  Active Air Protocol    A ct ive Reader Sensor Tag  Manager \(STM Active Sensor Tag Management Active Sensor tag S  Figure 5. Modification of EPCglobal Framework for SenTM application Here we propose the modification of active tag memory to serve as active sensor tag. The tag memory is divided into several blocks to store tag configuration, tag status bits and sensing values. At initial stage, tag is configured with its TagID, threshold value, sleep time etc. Tag status bit is used to set bit value tag memory is full or battery level becomes low. Status bit is important get the tag status especially when tag arrives long after it is out of the reader zone. As tags move frequently in and out of the reader interrogation area, SenTM application can check status of the tag by checking only its status bits. To configure tag or to retrieve sensing values, SenTM uses active tag memory access mechanism of active RFID reader. SenTM requests are first sent to the reader that co nverts the request to ISO/IEC 18000-7 air interface commands. Reader then retrieve tag memory data and respond to SenTM application. Fig. 6  shows the fundamental SenTM Components and communication mechanism between SenTM application and active sensor tag using active RFID reader Location  Time  Temp 0 C  Remark Processing Plant 01:00 1 0 C Below Threshold Transport to DC 03:00 1 0 C Exceed Threshold  Storage/Pick/Loading 05:00 1 0 C Below Threshold Store Delivery 08:00 1 0 C BatteryLow No Sensing  Sale at Store 11:00 1 0 C BatteryLow No Sensing  1 1 0 C 1 0 C Processing plant Transport DC 2 1 0 C 1 0 C 3 1 0 C 1 0 C Storage/Pick/Loading 4 1 0 C 1 0 C Store Delivery 5 1 0 C 1 0 C Sale at Store 
632 


 Active Reader Command Response Unit Convert to ISO/IEC 18000-7 Commands Tag Driver 1 2 3 4 5 6 Application Tag Management TM Services ISO/IEC 18000-7 Active Tag Memory Stores Sensing Values Active Reader Processes Request and Response from Sensor Tag Manager Active Air Interface TCCS DDMS DSOS EQPS Request Response Active Sensor Tag System Data Tag ID Memory Data Sensing values Configuration Tag Status bits Active Sensor Tag Management Application  Figure 6. Fundamental SenTM Components B  SenTM Core Object Model-CCNA C ommand C ontrol N otification and A larm \(CCNA together forms the SenTM core object model. There are three objects that form SenTM Command: \(1 DeviceSetting, \(2\larmSetting and \(3\sing Query DeviceSetting object sets and configures the device where as AlarmSetting and SensingQuery object is related with SenTM Reports object. SenTM administrative user uses the SenTM Control object to control the tag moods and states The detailed description of the CCNA objects is given in Following Table3 TABLE III  S EN TM CORE OBJECTS SenTM Commands Description Device Setting Configure tag such as sets TagID sensor sampling time sampling duration, sleep time etc Alarm Setting Sets Alarm Conditions such as Threshold, Battery Limit etc Sensing Query Sends user Query to requesting Sensing value or tag status SenTM Controls Description Tag State Control tag state such as sleep to wake up, active to inactive etc Tag Mood Control tag mood such as Logging mood ON/OFF, Sensing mood ON/OFF etc Tag Alarm Create and delete tag alarm SenTM Reports Description Data Report Sends data report in response to user query Alarm Notification Sends asynchronous alarm notification to the user  The high level relationship between CCNA objects and Sensor Tag Management object illustrated in Fig. 7. The gray color components describe CCNA objects and the white color components represent the objects related to each CCNA object. SenTM Reports are sent to the user in two ways: \(1\ynchronous data report and \(2\synchronous notification. SensorDataReport object provide Synchronous data report while AlarmNotification object provide Asynchronous notification to the user when any alarm event occurs                 Figure 7. SenTM core object Model C  SenTM Control Flow As shown in the CCNA object model in Fig. 7, the SenTM control object controls the sensor tag states, moods and the alarms. During sensor tag life cycle, a tag has several states and moods while it generates alarm if any unexpected tag condition occurs. Table4 provides the detailed description of tag moods, states and alarm types in a sensor tag life cycle. It is important to control and manage these objects in order to extend tag battery life as well as to provide reliable system services TABLE IV  S ENSOR T AG C ONTROL O BJECTS Tag Mood Description Sensing ON/OFF Tag starts to sense when Sensing is ON but does not store sensing values in its tag memory  Logging ON/OFF Tag starts to log/store sensing values in its tag memory when Logging is ON Beep , Flash bit ON/OFF Beep or Flash bit becomes ON when any alarm condition occurs if tag is out of reader zone Tag States Description Active/Inactive If tag is active it is ready to sense and RF communication is also activated otherwise converse Sleep/Wakeup In sleep state tag has no RF communication and saves battery life Lock/ Unlock Protect tag information reading when it is locked Tag Alarm Types Description BatteryLow Alarm occurs when battery level falls below 80 SensingThreshold Alarm occurs when sensing value exceeds threshold limit SensingMemoryFull Alarm occurs when tag memory becomes full  A flowchart of SenTM control flow in a sensor tag life cycle is shown in Fig. 8. We can divide a sensor tag life cycle and its control flow, broadly into 3 stages. First stage can be named as Configuration and Activation stage. At this stage, tag is activated; tag information and threshold condition is configured. For tag security Lock command is used to lock the configured values. Tag Sensing and Logging is activated so that tag starts to sense and store the sensing values in its tag memory. Then control switches to second stage- Checking and Alarm generation. Sensing values and alarm conditions \(BatteryLow, ThresholdExceed MemoryFull\ecked continuously and alarms are generated accordingly Control Sensor Tag Management SensorDataReport TagAlarm  0 0 0  SensingData  TagStatus  Command 0 AlarmNotification TagMood TagState DeviceSetting AlarmSetting SensingQuery 
633 


 Figure 8. SenTM Control Flow during Sensor Tag life cycle  Final stage of the control flow is- Action and Deactivation. When an alarm event occurs, separate alarm actions are taken depending on the types of the event. If alarm type is BatteryLow, tag Logging and Sensing is deactivated to save tag battery life and to protect loss of sensing information stored in the tag memory. Similar action is taken to save tag battery power, if sensing value exceeds threshold limit. In case of MemoryFull alarm, a check is necessary whether tag is in reader area or out of the reader area. Read and Reset sensing memory action is taken when tag is inside the reader interrogation zone. But, tag status bit is set or Beep/Flash-bit ON when tag is out of the reader zone, in order to provide reliable system services D  3-Layer SenTM Architecture Fig. 9 shows the detailed block diagram of SenTM architecture for efficient sensor tag management. It is a 3layer architecture: \(1\apture Layer, \(2\ervice Layer and 3\pplication Layer. Capture Layer receives integrated RFID-Sensing data from active sensor tag, Application Layer provides necessary API\(s\ the user, while Service Layer provides all the services required for efficient sensor tag management SenTM Capture Layer is the bottom layer of SenTM architecture. It provides common reader interface for both active and passive reader types. Active Reader Layer is used for capturing streaming RFID-Sensing data from active sensor tag while Passive Reader Layer is used to read passive RFID tag data. Captured event is dispatched by Message dispatcher and sent to the SenTM Service layer for further processing SenTM Service Layer is the core of SenTM Architecture This layer provides 4 types of services required by the application. These are: \(1\Tag Command and Control 2\ice and Data Management Services \(DDMS\, \(3\ent and Query Processing Services EQPS\d \(4\rage and Output Services \(DSOS Tag command and controlling is performed by TCCS TCCS consists of Command and Controller modules while DDMS consists of four management modules. The Active Reader and Tag manager modules used for device management and other two is used for data management EQPS has an Event Handler module that listens and detects events of several types and process that event accordingly The Report Generator, and Data Storage and Loggers together form DSOS service module. SensorDB stores sensing data while Report Generator module provides the sensing report in accordance with the query registered by the user  Internet / Intranet Figure 9. 3-Layer SenTM Architecture 
634 


SenTM Application Layer is the top layer of SenTM architecture which provides four API\(s\he users Command and Query is sent by using Tag Configuration API and Sensing Query API. The other two API\(s\sed for synchronous and asynchronous sensing reporting to the user. Sensing Data Report API is used to send synchronous reporting for user query and Sensing Alarm Notification API sends alarm notification to the user asynchronously if any alarm event occurs E  Challenges in SenTM  Implementation High performance is one of the major system challenges in SenTM implementation. Detection and generation of alarm notification for tag health and status \(BatteryLow MemoryFull, Sensing threshold etc.\ well as a quick response to user queries are the key requirements of SenTM implementation. Also, application deploying a number sensor tags, generate huge amount of RFID-sensing information which is a scalability issue. Furthermore system performance degrades with the number of users and applications connected to the system. Our designed SenTM architecture uses Continuous Query \(CQ\ Processor and Event Handler module to resolve these issues V  C ONCLUSION  Active RFID tag integrated with sensing module can serve as active sensor tag. The advantage of using active sensor tag is that it provides greater communication range, long battery life and fastest tag data collection. However, sensor tag differs from active tag in several ways, because it continuously senses and stores sensing values in its tag memory. Each sensing value in a tag, costs battery power as well as memory space. Moreover, a sensor tag life cycle has different moods and states. It is necessary to switch tag moods and states depending on the situation that helps store tag battery power as well as sensing data. To control tag and to provide efficient system services, a management system is required. Although, ISO provides standard for active tag communication, it is insufficient to provide all the services required by sensor tag application. In this paper, we analyze the sensor tag applications and existing global standards to extract requirements and necessary features for efficient sensor tag management. Our proposed Sensor Tag Management \(SenTM\itecture is based on EPCglobal Standard Architecture Framework and ISO/IEC 18000-7 active air interface standard that provides compatibility and global interoperability of the system. We proposed four types of core management modules which are namely: Tag Command and Control Services \(TCCS\ice and Data Management Services \(DDMS\, Event and Query Processing Services \(EQPS\d Data Storage and Output Services \(DSOS\we only consider about tag device and tag data management but our tag management does not consider about sensor tag locations. Our future research work lies on providing integrated RFID-Sensing-Location management services using existing standards A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was supported by the Grant of the Korean Ministry of Education, Science and Technology \(The Regional Core Research Program/Institute of Logistics Information Technology R EFERENCES  1  M its ug i,T  I n aba,L  T h e o do ro u,T  S   L o pe z  D  kim  D  M c F a r l ance H   Hada,Y. Kawakita,K. Osaka,O.Nakamura. B.Patkai, J.Sung Architecture development for SensorIntegration in the EPCglobal Network” Auto-ID Labs White Paper WP-WENET-018, July, 2007 2 T  S L o pez  D  K i m   W ir el e s s S e ns o r N e t w or ks a n d RF I D  integrationfor Context Aware Services” Auto-ID Labs White Paper WP-WENET-026 3  Tem p er a t u r e a c t i v e S e n s or Ta g O n l i n e  A v a i la b e  http://www.tradeeasy.com/supplier/583063/products/p1034900/245gh z-rfid-temperature-sensor-active-tag.html 10.01.2009 4  S e v i T e chno l o gy RF I D Se ns o r T a g s to tr ac k a n d m o ni to r g l o b al  Shipment [Onlin  A v a i la b e  http://www.logisticsit.com/absolutenm/templates/articledatacapture.aspx?articleid=2073&zoneid=6 02.01.2009 5 Th e E P C g lob a l W e b s i t e http://www.epcglobalinc.org  6 E P C g lob a l I n c  E P C g lob a l Ta g C l a s s S t r u ct u r e http://www.epcglobalinc.org/standards/TagClassDefinitions_1_0whitepaper-20071101.pdf 08.11.2008 7 K  F i n k e n z e l le r  RF I D H a ndbo o k   F undam e n t al s  an d A p pl ica tio ns  inContactless Smart Card Identification”, Second ed., John Wiley Sons, 2003 8 K  M i c h a e l  L  M c C a t h i e   T h e P r o s a n d C o n s o f R F I D i n S u p p l y  ChainManagement”, Proceedings of the International Conference on Mobile Business, 2005, pp. 623–629 9  D e ng  D e s ig n o f S e ns o r E m b e d de d R a d i o F r e que ncy  Identification\(SE-RFID\ Systems” Proceedings of 2006 IEEE International Conference on Mechatronics and Automation, June 2528, 2006, Luoyang, China 10  Co l d C h a i n A ppl ic at io ns  an d S e r v ice s O nl i n e  A v ail a bl e   http://www.sensitech.com/applications/coldchain_logistical  12.01.2009   C o ld Ch ai n Ma na gem e n t T ool O n l i n e A v a i la b l e http://www.foodproductiondaily.com/Quality-Safety/RFID-tag-acold-chain-management-tool 22.01.2009  W  Yoon S. Ch un g, S L e e  I m p l e m e n t a t i o n  a n d  p e rform a n c e  evaluation of an active RFID system for fast tag collection” Computer Communication Archive, Vol. 31, Issue. 17, P.P 4107- 4116, ISSN 0140-3664, 2008   E P C g lob a l I n c   T h e E P C g lob a l A r c h i t ec tu re F r a m e w ork 1  2  Onlin A v a i la b l e http://www.epcglobalinc.org/standards/architecture/architecture_1_2framework-20070910.pdf 15.07.2008  I S O I E C 18 000 7 I n form a t i o n t ech n o logy  R a d i o frequ e n c y identification \(RFID\tem management – Part 7: Parameters for active air interface communications at 433 MHz, 2008 15  E P Cg l o bal  I n c.”Re a d e r M a n a g e m e nt 1 0 1 O nl ine  A v ail a bl e   http://www.epcglobalus.org/dnn_epcus/Standards/EPCglobalStandard s/ReaderManagementStandard/tabid/377/Default.aspx 10.10.2008   E P C g lob a l I n c   T h e R e a d er Prot oc ol St a nda rd Vers i o n  1  1   Ratified Standard June 21, 2006 17 I S O  I E C 15 9 61 I n f o r m atio n te c hno l o g y Radio f r e que nc y  identification \(RFID\ for item management - Data protocol application interface \(2004 18 I S O  I E C 15 9 62 I n f o r m atio n te c hno l o g y Radio f r e que nc y  identification \(RFID\ for item management - Data protocol: data encoding rules and logical memory functions \(2004 
635 


12 M P Guthrie EVAP-4 another modification of a code to calculate particle evaporation from excited compound nuclei ORNL/TM-3119 Oak Ridge National Laboratory Oak Ridge TN 1970 13 T A Gabriel R G Alsmiller Jr and P M Guthrie An extrapolation method for predicting nucleon and pion differential production cross sections from high-energy  3 GeV nucleonnucleus collisions ORNL-4542 Oak Ridge National Laboratory Oak Ridge TN 1970 14 L W Townsend J W Wilson and H B Bidasaria Nucleon and Deuteron Scattering Cross Sections From 25 MeV/Nucleon to 22.5 GeV/Nucleon NASA Technical Memorandum No TM-84636 1983 15 L W Townsend J W Wilson and H B Bidasaria Heavy-Ion Total and Absorption Cross Sections above 25 MeV/Nucleon NASA Technical Paper No TP-2138 1983A 16 R K Tripathi F A Cucinotta and J W Wilson Universal parameterization of absorption cross section light systems NASA Technical Paper TP209726 1999 17 F A Cucinotta L W Townsend and J W Wilson Description of Alpha-Nucleus Interaction Cross Sections for Cosmic Ray Shielding Studies NASA Technical Paper No TP-3285 1993 18 J W Wilson J L Shinn L W Townsend R K Tripathi F F Badavi and S Y Chun Nucl Inst and Methods Phys Res Part B 94 95 1994 19 H Fraunfelder E M Henley Subatomic Physics Prentice Hall Inc Englewood Cliffs NJ 1974 20 E Byckling K Kajantie Particle Kinematics John Wiley  Sons London 1973 21 C H Tsao R Silberberg A F Barghouty and L Shiver Astrophys J 451 275 1995 22 D J Morrissey Phys Rev C 39 460 1989 23 J Miller C Zeitlin F A Cucinotta L Heilbronn D Stephens and J W Wilson Radiat Res 159 381 2003 BIOGRAPHY r Lawrence Townsend is a p~~~rofessor at the Nuclear llllllJ _Engr neering Department at the l University of Tennessee noxville He has many esearch interests in the areas of     L C h arged Particles transport and Ipace Radiation Shielding Youssef Charara is a Ph.D student at the Nuclear engineering Department at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville He obtained a B.S in 2004 and an M.S in 2006 in Nuclear Engineering at the University of Tennessee Knoxville His research interests is modeling Charged Particles Trasnport 7 


GPS Battery Reaction Wheels Star Tracker S-Band Transceiver PDU Torque Rod Propulsion Module Payload Bay typical Figure 6 Typical MMB-100 Spacecraft Components 8 


PCU The reaction wheels are off and the PCU implements two-axis sun-pointing with the magnetometer sun sensors and torque rods Prior to performing the two-axis sun pointing unwanted body rates are removed via a detumble algorithm All PCU loads have been shed except for the Sband communications system All communication is performed via the secondary channel Emergency Mode is used to trap critical faults that could seriously jeopardize bus health and safety Emergency Mode has one operational submode called Idle Submode This submode is used to facilitate fault recovery operations In Idle Submode the SCC is online to provide basic C&DH functions only and the main application does not execute The PCU continues to provide 2-axis attitude control This permits diagnostics to be performed by the ground before the SCC is entrusted with full control of the vehicle The GPS receiver is powered on so that the vehicle is prepared for the transition to Safe Mode Coma Mode is the third and most severe spacecraft anomaly mode and is entered when the battery voltage drops below 18.74 V Upon entering this mode all PCU loads are shed the torque rod drivers are disabled and analog telemetry is disabled The PSIO and PCU are capable of operating at voltages as low as 14V and therefore continue to function but the PCU will not be able to employ the torque rods Because no attitude control is performed the vehicle will eventually enter a random tumble The PSIO will attempt to charge the battery with whatever incident solar energy is available from the solar panels Coma Mode is exited when the battery voltage rises above 22 V 7 SUMMARY The MMB-100 spacecraft is a highly capable platform with robust performance margins The extensive use of commercial parts components and software enables low cost and responsive development times Launch options are flexible and cost-effective and up to three vehicles can be launched on a single Falcon launch vehicle Also the nontraditional approach used to design build and test the spacecraft offers additional cost and schedule savings over traditional aerospace approaches ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Many thanks to the entire team at SpaceDev that is developing the MMB100 spacecraft Thanks in particular to Tony Sandstrom for his development of an innovative and flexible spacecraft structure 2 C Barnes and A Johnston Radiation Hardness Assurance Issues Associated with COTS in JPL Flight Systems The Challenge of Europa Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology Pasadena CA 3 D Patterson COTS in Space If You Can't Stand the Heat Stay Out of the Capsule MIL/COTS Digest Mar 2006 4 D Thomhill Large-Scale Use of COTS in Space SAMPE Conference Long Beach CA May 1999 5 C Barnes New Radiation Issues for Spacecraft Microelectronics Commercial Off-the-Shelf COTS Radiation Testing and Failure Analysis Group Jet Propulsion Laboratory Jan 1998 6 P Guldager G Thuesen and J Jorgensen Quality Assurance for Space Instruments Built with COTS Acta Astronautica Vol 56 pp 279-283 2005 Biography Bill Jackson received BS degrees in both Computer Science and Electrical Engineering from Northwestern University in 1982 He attended USAF Officer Training School following graduation and entered active duty in 1982 He served with the National Air Intelligence Center the Air Force Institute of Technology where he received an MSEE degree in 1986 and the National Reconnaissance Office He separated from the USAF in 1990 and joined Ball Aerospace and Technologies Corporation in Boulder Colorado where he worked for 15 years as a spacecraft systems engineer He received an ME in Space Operations from the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs in 1996 and a PhD in Electrical Engineering from the same institution in 2000 Dr Jackson is presently the Chief Engineer for Satellite Systems at SpaceDev Inc in Poway California His areas of expertise include systems engineering optimization mathematical modeling and simulation of space systems space mission analysis and spacecraft design Dr Jackson is a Senior Member of the IEEE and the AIAA REFERENCES 1 B Jackson A Robust Fault Protection Strategy for a COTS-Based Spacecraft IEEE Aerospace Conf Proceedings Mar 2007 9 


useful life This is very beneficial in military and industrial automation settings and can link to larger system level prognostics such as the generator system in Figure 20 and maintenance ALS This incorporates external prognostics extraction blocks multiplexed to external Integrated Health Monitoring System Exciter l Ref I I I I ITo IHMS I L I Figure 20 A System-Level Solution for Synchronous Generator The non-invasive approach to electronic prognostics can be implemented on a variety of power electronic systems where access to internal circuit nodes is not available Starting with a state diagram description of the system operating with feedback one can determine the out response to a given input perturbation Finally with the understanding of how changes in the condition of interior components affect the response function component degradation can be measured indirectly Fault-to-failure progression models are used to derive RUL estimations This approach has tremendous advantage over direct measurement schemes in which sensors must be added inside the circuit that by virtue of their own reliability can increase the probability of failure and reduce the mean lifetime of the system High-reliability high-fault coverage solutions can be implemented for power electronics using existing terminal access ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank the NAVAIR/JSF Program Office the NASA/Ames Research Center Daimler Chrysler and Raytheon Missile Systems for their support and encouragement of Ridgetop's work in this area REFERENCES 1 C&D Technologies WPA-50 Point of Load Converter 2 Pflueger K P Power-Supply Reliability A Practical Improvement Guide EDN March 3 1997 IBM Germany 3 Goodman D Vermeire B Spuhler P Venkatramani H Practical Application of PHM/Prognostics to COTS Power Converters Aerospace Conference 2005 IEEE 512 March 2005,35733578 4 Remote diagnostics can facilitate communication between a central diagnostic center with the deployed system By the time the system is returned to base a spare can be ready-to-install 5 R Erickson Fundamentals of Power Electronics Norwell NIA Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999 6 Judkins J B et.al A Prognostic Sensor for VoltageRegulated Switch-Mode Power Supplies IEEE Aerospace Conference March 2007 7 Hofmieister J P et.al Real-Time Detection of SolderJoint Faults in Operational Field Programmable Gate Arrays IEEE Aerospace Conference March 2007 8 HUMS Health and Usage Monitoring Systems Aviation Maintenance 02/16/06 9 Goodman D Wood S Return-on-Investment ROI for Electronic Prognostics in High Reliability Telecom Applications Intelec 2006 Conference Providence Rhode Island 10 John Maddox NHTSA Investigation PE 07-024 IR to MFR for 2000-2003 Volkswagen Passat 05/11/2007 11 Lee Strickland NHTSA Investigation PE 07-024 ODI Resume for 2000-2003 Volkswagen Passat 05/10/2007 12 Lee Strickland NHTSA Investigation PE 07-024 ODI Resume for 2000-2003 Volkswagen Passat 09/28/2007 10 lw 30 lw 


BIOGRAPHY Sonia Vohnout Sonia Vohnout is Systems Engineer at Ridgetop Group Inc She received her Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from the University of Costa Rica and Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in Systems Engineering from the University of Arizona In the past she has worked for Modular Mining IBM and AT&T Bell Laboratories She previously owned and operated a manufacturing facility in Mexico She is an expert modeler and has extensive expertise in software and computer systems Ms Vohnout has over 20 years of experience in systems engineering quality systems management and business development and management Douglas Goodman Patent Review Roundtable Doug Goodman founded Ridgetop Group Inc in 2000 and has over 30 years experience as an Electronic Engineer including work at Tektronix and Honeywell He earned a BSEE from California Polytechnic State University San Luis Obispo and an MBA from the University of Portland He has published over 20 papers on instrumentation and control and was a Member of the Tektronix Mr Goodman is a co-founder and President of Opmaxx the firm that developed the first commercially available Analog Built-In Self-Test BIST product line including selfcontained IP for measuring the performance of ADCs PLLs Gain Stages and other mixed signal modules He has extensive experience in low noise instrumentation design stemming from a 14-year stint at Tektronix Inc He was Vice President of Engineering at Analogy Inc an Analog/Mechatronic Simulation Tool firm which after a successful IPO on the NASDAQ became part of Synopsys Inc a large Electronic Design Automation EDA firm At Ridgetop Group Mr Goodman is the Principal Investigator on a number of electronic prognostics and radiation-hardened IC-related projects in addition to his executive duties Justin Judkins is Director of  Research and oversees the research and implementations of electronic prognostics His research interests involve applying sensor array technology to various reasoning engines to provide optimum performance for electronic modules and systems He previously held senior-level engineering positions at Bell Labs and Lucent involving high-reliability telecom transmission He received a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from the University of Arizona Mladen Kozak Mladen Kozak is a Design Engineer and Technical Staff Member for Ridgetop Group Inc He is instrumental in eve oping inovative solutions supporting Ridgetop's prognostic and ePHM efforts related to Power Electronics Switching Power Supplies and Electro-Mechanical Actuators His technical background includes circuit design and complex control system simulations He received his BSEE from the University of Arizona and is currently pursuing an MS Ken Harris Ken Harris is the senior technical writer at Ridgetop Group An expert in usability and crosscultural communication he has served as plenary speaker and symposium chair for advanced topics in technical communication and information design Over a 25year career he has become an award-winning writer designer and illustrator with awards ranging from academic contests to juried national and international competitions Mr Harris worked as senior writer technical illustrator and information product designer at Lucent Motorola NCR and Cingular Wireless before moving to Arizona and joining Ridgetop Group He received a BA in English from the University of New Mexico graduating cum laude and with departmental honors He has taught graduate technical writing and graphic design at Georgia Tech and Southern Polytechnic State University and is a senior fellow in the Society for Technical Communication 11 Justin Judkins 


 12  200  NROM: approx 4060 devices 200  Flash: approx 256 devices By examination, it can be easily seen that developing a high capacity data recorder as pr oposed using CRAM technology is impractical Error Detection and Correction Codes  All technologies are subject to lo ss of information, be they the loss of a single bit or the loss of an entire chip, the inclusion of Error Detection and Correction is an appropriate action by any system designer Just by using EDAC, there is an associated bit-penalty ranging from a few percentile to over 25 per cent   The exact selection of most-appropriat e Error Correction codes is highly dependent upon error phenomena not only for each  rt ain aspects of the exact part being considered as well as the environment to be encountered [2  25  F o r t h e reco rde r  de scri be d bel o w a Reed-Solomon code was selected.  It is important to note that this may not be the prime candidate, but was chosen for known characteristics Selection of a more appropri ate EDAC code [2 w oul d  most assuredly, bring about a reduction in recorder mass and power One final, important, distinction between the two prime technologies is required The NROM devices analyzed for this paper have built-in an incredibly powerful error detection and correction machine, capable of detecting four bits in error in a single word, and correcting three bits per word [10  W i t h th is m e th od t h e Bit Error Rate is calculated by the manufacturer to be less than 1.18E 19  errors/bit-day \226 equivalent to 3 unrecoverable bit errors every 550 years for the entire recorder; therefore, the package numbers presented here do not include extra devices required for EDAC other than that provided by the chip itself Table 6 - HC-SSR Basic Features 200  Redundant SpaceWire interfaces 200  Redundant Power Converters 200  Redundant Controllers/Supervisors 200  Multi-plane Non-volatile storage 200  Error detection and correction 200  Device isolation to the EDAC Word  Figure 18 - HC-SSR Conceptual Block Diagram 


 13  7  H IGH C APACITY SSR  D ESCRIPTION  Block Diagram  A block diagram of a recorder meeting all requirements listed in Table 6 is shown as Figure 18.  The recorder features cross-coupled SpaceWire interfaces as well as redundancy down to the memory plane Cross-coupled controllers w ith shared memory ensure operation without the need to re-build memory allocation tables should a fault occur Recorder Summary  Using conservative packaging techniques, two recorder designs were developed: one using Flash memory and the other using NROM.  A summary of their characteristics is provided in the tables below.  A more detailed discussion of design and implementation follows Board Design  Figure 19 - One side of 8Tb Memory Slice using NROM Technology The NROM-based solution is presented as Figure 19.  In the figure, nearly two hundred 2-Gbit NROM devices are installed on each face of the 9U card.  \(The whitespace is preserved in this example for passive components and design margin.\e time of this writing, the availability of chip-stacked NROM devices was uncertain and omitted from the trade space Design of a Flash-based memory card would be of similar ilk.  Device density would permit the use of a 6U card Compare the number of devices required for each design as given in Tables 7 and 8 Table 7 - NROM-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 9U  Approx 40 x 33 x 30 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  14 ea Size, 9U 6  Approx 40 x 33 x 30 cm \(h, w, d Mass  10 kg 7  Power  30 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel Space Wire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(Sparing extra Devices  4060 32 Gb die    6 IEEE 1101.1-1998 7 Assumes worst case devices are operable to expected regime without shielding 


 14  Table 8 - Flash-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 6U  Approx 28 x12.7 x 25 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  4 ea Mass  3.5 kg  Power  6 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel SpaceWire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(EDAC Sparing extra Devices  254 512 Gb \(not incl EDAC  Controller Board  Figure 20 - Controller Card Layout \(Violet = Shared Memory  Figure 20 shows one of many possible methods of design for an IO controller slice.  The IO controller slice provides redundant SpaceWire interfaces and redundant interfaces to the backplane.  Alt hough there are two controllers shown there is, in this concept, a single set of Shared Memory which is common between both controllers One of the main functions of the active controller is to build and maintain a directory of memory sector-to-physical address translation tables.  Having the table stored in Shared Memory assures timely restart of the recorder function should it become necessary to activate and swap to the alternate controller Interfaces  The Data Recorder interfa ces with the Command Data Handling \(CDH\ubsystem via the standard SpaceWire interface 8 Utilizing conservative design techniques, a sustained Write speed of at least 200 Mbps into memory is guaranteed.   The recorder is capable of supporting simultaneous Writing and Reading of data subject to usual certain timing restrictions imposed by the memory devices themselves Standard 28 Volt bus power is applied to the SSR which features two power convert er units for redundancy Redundancy & Fault Tolerance The execution of good systems engineering practice is recommended and will, most likely result in a physical  enlargement of the SSR in one dimension.  This may consist of addition of spare memory to each memory slice, or the addition of one or more spare memory slices to the entire design With respect to Fault Tolerance, aside from the use of redundant interfaces and contro llers, described above, the HC-SSR is designed such that individual blocks of words as determined by EDAC boundaries can be tagged as Do Not Use.  An example of an EDAC word with embedded control bits is included as Figure 21  Figure 21 - EDAC Word Bit-Level Assignments File System The HC-SSR contains built in File Management system supervised by Interface/Controlle r ASICs.  File storage is compatible with the CCSDS File Delivery Protocol \(CFDP thereby reducing the need for processing and packetizing data externally   8 ESA Standard ECSS-E-50-12A 96 bits 26 -->||<-- 6 EDAC Ctl/Hdr/ID Data 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


