  Cristina Martelli Dept. of Statistics Informatics Application \(DISIA G. Parenti University of Florence Florence, Italy e-mail: martelli@disia.unifi.it Emanuele Bellini Dept. of Statistics Informatics Application \(DISIA G. Parenti University of Florence Florence, Italy e-mail: bellini@disia.unifi.it   
Abstract 
Using Value Network Analysis to support Data Driven Decision Making in Urban Planning 
This article provides a methodology of assessing Open\ata quality in Data Driven Decision Making with the Value Network Analysis approach 
 
discovering the value creation failure point\(s\ in the network and evaluating the impact of loss of vale of data in DDDM process 
I from their territory to support the so called Data Driven Decision Making In t uiti v e  d e c i si on s ar e n ot  the path to success when working with the mountains of structured and unstructured information 
knowledge 
 I NTRODUCTION  Today, to be more effective in urban planning and decision making, public administrators need to gain useful 
Keywords:Data Driven Decision Making, Value Network Analysis, urban planning 
1 But there are several misunderstanding around the çdataé term and researches tends to use alternatives like çEvidence Based decision makingé. In fact, according to [15  t h e r e i s  a huge distinction to be made between "evidence" and data." The former is the way for understanding where your business has been and where it needs to go. The latter is the instrument that lets us get to that end game. Data itself isn't the solution. It's just part of the path to that solution  According to [1  d a ta i nfor ma t i on  and  kno w l e dg e  
form a continuum in which data, are transformed to information, and ultimately to knowledge that can be applied to make decisions. As defined in [13  Data Information Knowledge 
exist in a raw state. They do not have meaning in and of itself and whether or not data become information depends on the understanding of the person looking at the data is data that is given meaning when connected to a context. It is data used to comprehend and organize our environment, unveiling an understanding of relations between data and context. Alone, however, it does not carry any implications for future action 
is created through a sequential process and is the collection of information deemed useful, and eventually used to guide action. Data, information and knowledge are generated by a number of different actors acting in urban   1  MIT panelists: Big data calls for data-driven decision-making skills http://searchbusinessanalytics.techtarget.com/news/2240184734/MITpanelists-Big-data-calls-for-data-driven-decision-making-skills  context but what about their actual usefulness? Usually Big Data are described with the 3 Vês Ö volume, velocity 
and variety but  itês the 4th V Ö Value Ö where we really should focus.  In the DDDM in urban planning, this Value could be identified as the ability of generating common goods \(public value\m decision taken exploiting valuable knowledge  Figure 1 
 
Data Driven Decision Making process in urban contenxt\(inspired by Ellen et al 2006 Thanks to approaches like data mining and analytics the knowledge can be extracted from the huge amount of data daily produced by different agents like users through social networks and sensors, public administrations 
companies, utilities, etc. but its actual 
has to be determinate The Value Chain as both a concept and a tool has been used for the last 30 years to understand and analyze industries. It has proved a very useful mechanism for portraying the chained linkage of activities, and furthermore, it has also framed our thinking about value and value creation [5   When products and services become dematerialized and the value chain itself no longer having a physical dimension\, the value chain concept becomes inappropriate. In fact, for Op en Data based services, the classical approach of Porterês value chain \(grounded in the 
value 
assumptions and the model of an industrial economy not anymore adequate [4 s i nc e the fund am en ta l log i c of value creation is linked to a network and complex context Global competition, changing markets, and new technologies are opening up qualitatively new ways of creating In this respect, strategy is the way in which a company defines its business and links together the only two resources that really matter in todayês economy and with markets, stakeholders 
value knowledge relationships 
2013 International Conference on Signal-Image Technology & Internet-Based Systems 978-1-4799-3211-5/13 $31.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/SITIS.2013.161 998 


    
value roles a Data Analysts b External Data Providers c Internal Data Provider d Decision Makers   Role: Data Analysts value realization loss of value realized value 
 
Figure 2 Simplyfied Value Network map When a participant \(role eceives a value input they should find ways to use that input to either improve their own capability \(Impact Analysis\, or provide value to other roles in the network  \(Value Creation Analysis The first level of the valu e analysis is the Impact Analysis  and shows if a role is realizing value from their inputs. According to [7 h e v a l u e real i zat i on i n a net w ork  can be defined as çthe act of converting a value input either tangible or intangible, into gains, benefits, or asset improvements that contribute to the success of a role or organizationé. The second level of value analysis - Value Creation Analysis - explores how the value network creates value by role and as a whole. According to [7  some of basic questions are: How well are we using our assets to create a given valu e output? What value features or enhancements do we provide with this output The two roles under analysis are: Data Analysts and Decision Maker. We selected these two roles since the former represents the real transformation engine of data to knowledge, while the latter is who transform the knowledge into public value  
 
and territories.  In the traditional value chain the focal is the end product and the chain is designed around the activities required  to produce it, while in the current Data Driven context is co-created by a combination of players \(social networks, sensors, data scientists, city managers, city council, utilities, etc.\ with a defined  in the network in a strong co-operative manner playing a significant role in strategic performance  According to this, this work adopted the Value Network Analysis perspective as a suitable approach to identify the value of the inputs/outputs in DDDM steps and identify the potential value creation failure points in the networks that could  affect the final impact of the decision  II V ALUE N ETWORK A NALYSIS  The Value Network Analysis \(VNA\ was developed by Verna Allee in the 1990s and uses a basic network modeling approach of nodes and links to show collaborative relationships, analyze value transactions, and visualize critical "flow" sequences  The first step of VNA is to identify the roles of the players in the network. In our context the players are this role represents the team devoted to collect and process data to extract knowledge DISIA and MOSIS Lab this role represents social networks data \(e.g. Fliker this role represents the Open Data dept. of  City of Florence this role represents city managers of Florence\(e.g. tourism dept Accorind go VNA approc o n ce the roles are  identified, the scenario has to be mappend on value network using the following notation 1. Nodes \(often shown as ovals\ent real actors and the contributing role they play in that activity 2. A directional arrow shows a single transaction something moving from one role to another 3. A transaction with an intangible deliverable is shown here with a dashed line, and a transaction with a tangible deliverable is shown with a solid line  Its can be referred to the act of converting high quality and a ppropriate data \(tangible value input\nto Information \(tangible assets\hrough data harvesting and processing techniques The value output of Data Analysts role is represented by the knowledge as a result of  Information  \(assets syntetization of Data Analysts It is important to remark th at, according to the çgarbagein, garbage-outé principle of the information systems, a low value input produces a low realized value at the end of the process. In fact, initiatives like Open Data undertaken by many public organisations, have been primarily oriented to address institutional transparency short term political achievements\, instead of being designed to support data mining and analysts as shown in the following chapters. This results in a of outputs and the  
999 


  In particular, the value output of DA represents the input value for Decision Maker role and is expressed as a tangible deliverable like çAnalyticsé as shown in Fig 1 The value realization for DM is the DDDM process accomplishment achieved converting analytics knowledge\nto awareness rising about city issues, a reduction of uncertainty and bias, a cost-efficiency and performance understating, a way to check assumptions clarify choices, prioritize de cisions, a way to identify solutions and prioritize decisions, and so forth The value output of DM can be identified in tangible deliverables like the new city plan, initiatives, and so forth Another value output are guidelines that represent a value input for the Internal data producer role. This deliverable is crucial since it represen ts a way to implement an internal side data production strategy able to ignite a value propagation through the network rasing up the DM output vale   Thus, for their successful upt ake in value realization process, it is  important to provide the foundation for the development of business and usage cases revolving around the adoption of Linked Open Data, in the general framework of the Value Analysis [7  th e id e a is to conceptualizes the Linked Open Data value chain and  to identify and categorize potential pitfalls which have to be considered by business and info rmation engineers. In this perspective, providing intellectual frameworks conceptual models, and  governing ideas allows a company's managers to identify opportunities for bringing value to customers and for delivering that value at a profit   III T ERRITORY AS LINKAGE KEY  Nowadays many public administrations are committed to Open Data and transp arency issues and, over time, more information for re-use and share is available for analysis If institutions are often aware of the exigency of opening their repositories, a lack of attention is still devoted on assuring the conditions for transforming Open Data in valuable data \(value input\ This is particularly serious when data represent assets and events on the territory. In fact, a territory represents the linkage key which connects together processes and actors that have in common the fact of happening/acting in the same place. Public administration ought to pay a great attention on the quality and completeness of the geographical attributes of their Open Data, as they allow to link together not only their administrative data sets, but also independent sources like, for instance th ose originated by social and web activities In this perspective, an exercise focused on linking together city of Florence administrative Open Data, Flickr data and sensors data like city Wifi, will allow us to identify where the happened due to issues in data production process, quality  and semantics that prevents a reliable accomplis hment of DDDM process      Big efforts have already been done, in general, on social network data reuse and, in particular, on Flickr data exploitation; the need of providing a shared semantic has been already discussed in [9 8  In this work we are interest ed in discovering where are the oint usage of public Open Data with social media data \(Flickr, in this specific application\ in a profitable manner. The idea is that the a DDDM is effective only if it represents a complete, reliable and evolutive narration [11 10] i n whi c h di fferent  stakeholders and actors coul d recognize th emselves. The analysis has been structured in these main steps  i  To collect data from Flickr we have used the Flickr REST APIs providing the Lat/long of a point representing the centre of the Cascine Park, namely Piazza del Re, with a radius of 10Km. The results is an XML of the photos that fall in the distance, with some related information \(metadata\ like ID, title, owner Lat/long, tags, and so forth  ii data collection. This dataset is generated by the wifi access points situated in differe nt parts of the city and includes the ID of the user \(usually the mobile number\, datestamp of each event \(es. login/logout the amount of data transferred. We have collected 100K records representing more than 400 unique users within a temporal window of 2,5 months \(from 12-042012 to 29-07-2012\ but only a subset of log records related to the park has been processed. It is worth to notice that the re-use and processing of logs data involves privacy issues and specific hash algorithms has been applied to mobile number data to guarantee privacy during the processing   iii C Geo Open Data about the territory \(streets buildings, etc.\ have been downloaded from the Open 
Role:Decision Maker loss of value value creation failure points in such a vale networks that prevent the j External Data producers: the Flickr data collection Internal Data producers City of Florence Wifi logs Internal Data producers ity of Florence geo Open Data 
    
1000 


Wifi log based place profile analysis  For instance it is worthy to notice that the access point situated in the Cascine Park \(fig. 2 feature 1\ has no detected any presence within the 2-6 \(blue\ range and only few presences within the 6-10 range \(yellow\, while the 10-14 \(red\, 14-18 \(purple\ and 18-22 \(green\anges seem to be the most çcrowded. This result reveals that the Park is mainly used during the daylight hours. This behavior might be due to security issue or the lack of services and events  A second exercise has involve d also Flickr data looking for other issues able to affect the information system value in terms of Quality [2  Fo r in stan ce, acc o r d ing to th e  approach presented in [3 r i e ved C a s c i n e P a rk Flickr posts, title and the tags   Figure 4 Figure 3 Buffering  The first processing has been done applying the ArcGIS buffering function to the points representing the place where the photos are taken. The Figure 3 shows their spatial distribution and it is possible to identify 3 major areas of concentration that corresponding to the Anfiteatro, Piazzale del Re and Piazza Vittorio Veneto Once the most visited areas are identified, the second step of the analysis is to understand çwhyé a photo has been taken in a place. The Figure 4 represents a sort of profileé of the place derive d by the motivation behind a picture \(red triangle\s taken that can be clusterized with three high level concepts: Events, Leisure, Panoramic areas. The analysis has been conducted with a visual analytics methods  T h i s met hod req u i re huma n  involvement in addition to th e automated analysis in the exploration of the data, due to the presence of not 
Data portal of City of Florence http://opendata.comune.fi.it\ We have selected only the datasets that we considered relevant for the Cascine Park case study. All this information are downloaded as shpfile format in order to create a GIS map as a base to bind on, join and process data from the identified data sources  IV VNA DELIVERABLE  KNOWLEDGE VALUE  Temporal and geographical di stributions of Flickr and wifi  events could reveal so me interesting expected and unexpected behavioral patterns that represent a potential value input for DecisionMaker process to taken good decision in DDDM process. From the government perspective, in fact, uncove ring the city places dynamic social character means gaining insights for urban design public service planning, infrastructure monitoring and so forth  A first exercise has been focused on trying to understand in which time slots of the day, the Cascine Park is visited To obtain such a information we have combined events logs data with access points geographic datasets obtained in shapfile\ as Open Data. During the value conversion performed by Data Analys some issues emerged that affected the value of the outputs  Loss of value In particular, we have faced a problem related to the lack of a join key between access point geographic representation \(feature\th datastrems coming from Open Data logs. This scenario shows that the integrated data value is seriously affected by not having properly modeled the Open Data production process and the benefit of having wifi access point layer freely accessible is strongly reduced According to the VNA, the valu e creation failure point is represented by the low value of the transaction between Decision Makers and Internal Data producer. In fact, the deliverable \(guidelines\ted by the Decision Making role, is on quantitavite targed to be achieved by  data production process instead of inputs framed within a value oriented strategy To overcome these limitations and to show the information potentialities of th is harmonized information system ,we have added manually the missing key values Figure 2 shows the results of this work obtained manually adding the name of the wifi access point in the access points layer    Figure 3 
 
 
  
1001 


Photo clustering analysis The data collected from Flickr have been further processed for Time series analysis. We have analyised the entire datasets \(Cascine Park with a radius of 10Km\nd a subset of the dataset filtered for neighborhood metadata field with the value of çCascine In this way we aimed to verify if there were similarities in trends. The graph below represents the Time series of the entire dataset The blue line represents the Italian visitors \(mostly resident\le the red line shows the contribution of foreign   Figure 6 Time series of the selected fliker datasets The chart below shows the Ti me series applied to the dataset filtered with neighborhood = çCascineé. It is worthy to notice that the foreign \(red line\ follow a different distribution.  Moreover, the graph shows that the Park tends to be used/exploited in spring and in late Summer/early Autumn. This trend is well represented by the seasonal chart   Figure 7 Time series of the filtered fliker datasets The chart below shows the gene ral trends of presences in the area \(cascine +10Km   Figure 8 Trends of fliker datasets The graph below shows the seasonal distribution of the time series. It is interesting to notice that the major pick is in spring \(april-may  Figure 9 Seasonaldistribution of the time series of selected fliker datasets Indeed these results have been extracted for demo purpose and they need to be validated  
controlled semantics in metadata that affect automatic processing. It is clear that this approach is not sustainable with an high number of instances to be processed  Figure 5  The data collected show seve ral issues as: empty field completeness\, device auto generated name e.g.çDG00001\, brand name \(e.g. çNikoné\nd so forth Moreover, as stated in [1 ge o-refere nced phot o dat a may  introduce a level of uncertainty. In some cases coordinates could refer to the position of the photographer, while in others they refer to the location of the object being photographed. The results of data 
Loss of Value 
     
1002 


Slava Kisilevich, Milos Krstajic, Daniel Keim, Natalia Andrienko Gennady Andrienko Event-based analysis of peopleês activities and behavior using Flickr and Panoramio geotagged photo collections 2 Emanuele Bellini, Paolo Nesi - Metadata Quality assessment tool for Open Access Cultural Heritage institutional repositories Springer - ECLAP 2013 Porto 3 Marco Mamei, Alberto Rosi, Franco Zambonelli - Automatic Analysis of Geotagged Photos for Intelligent Tourist Services 4 Richard Normann and Rafael RamÌrez  - From Value Chain to Value Constellation: Designing Interactive Strategy - Harvard Business Review, July/August 1993, Vol. 71, Issue 5 Joe Peppard, Anna Rylander FROM VALUE CHAIN TO VALUE NETWORK Published in European Management Journal Vol. 24 Issue 2, 2006 Page 6 Ellen B. Mandinach, Margaret Honey, and Daniel Light - A Theoretical Framework for Data-Driven Decision Making - AERA San Francisco April 9, 2006 7 Verna Allee - Value Networks and the true nature of collaboration c\2011 Verna Allee - ISBN# 978-615-43765-1 Published by ValueNet Works and Verna Allee Associates 8 Breslin, J.; Decker, S., "The Future of Social Networks on the Internet: The Need for Semantics," Internet Computing, IEEE vol.11, no.6, pp.86,90, Nov.-Dec. 2007 doi 10.1109/MIC.2007.138 9 C. Petrie, çSemantic Attention Management,é IEEE Internet Computing, vol. 10, no.5, 2006, pp. 93Ö96  Cristina Martelli, Emanuele Bellini: The Role of a Semantic Approach of Complex Statistical Information System Planning and Management. SITIS 2012: 876-883  Martelli C. A linguistic approach to the construction of complex statistical information systems Shifting the Boundaries of Research Edited by D Birks et alCompilation ©2011 Association for Survey Computin  Ackoff, R. L. \(1989\. From data to wisdom. Journal of Applied Systems Analysis, 16, 3-9  Light, D., Wexler, D., & Henize, J. \(2004, April practitioners interpret and link data to instruction: Research findings on New York City Schoolsê implementation of the Grow Network. Paper presented at the annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association, San Diego, CA  Ellen B. Mandinach, Margaret Honey, and Daniel Light - A Theoretical Framework for Data-Driven Decision MakinAERA San Francisco April 9, 2006  Kristian J.Hammond Ö Harvard Businness Review http://blogs.hbr.org/cs/2013/05/the_value_of_big_data_isnt_the.ht ml                         
inspection retrieved from flickr has revealed a number of criticisms listed below  automatic generated tag from application \(e.g.çistant gramm too generic concepts \(e.g. çmeé, çgirlé, çFlorence concatenated words \(e.g. çg oingtoworké, çpicoftheday name of mobile apps \(e.g. çhipstamatic neologisms/slang terms\(e.g. ç igers content wrong assignment \(e.g. Rome, Vatican Museum  Thus, according to the VNA the value creation failure point is represented by the low value of the transaction and related deliverable between External Data producers and Data Analytics In fact, it is clear that without a common semantics and a controlled vocabularies the integration and the automatic processing of these data in a meaningful framework cannot be realized completely  These results show that if a city manager wants to profit of the territory usage information coming from social networks activities, new roles \(dedicated services\ must be created in the network. These services, in particular ought to offer f acilities to uploading activities while controlling the semantic heterogeneity and the biases indicated in this report  V C ONCLUSION  The data value creation failure points in the networks are several. In fact, the actual capability to achieve data value realization to support DDDM process is linked to the capability of the network of creating value in terms of knowledge and right decisions form data. A number of issues in data production, semantics and quality affects the value realization, preventing and limiting analysis and decision support. This report shows that Open Data strategy is needed and must take in account not only transparency i ssues but also all t hose aspects affecting data linking and harmonization: in some cases these drawbacks rely on a not perfect coordination between Open Data publication strategies between different administration branches This is the easier situ ation to solve and it could be faced at organizational level In other case the lack of information rely on the semantics adopted by social network actors: the second exercise suggests that the solutions could be found in specialized services that, while giving an added value to the users harmonize the different semantic plans and remove bias causes R EFERENCES   1 
  
 
               
1003 


Fig 7 Speedup When Using Results of Whole Jobs Figure 7 is tremendous and the execution time is around 30 45 sec for all queries The speedup depends on the base execution time the size of the nal results and the execution time variance In this case for all queries the execution time essentially consists of the time to make a lookup in the repository and return the location of the stored results in HDFS The total execution time of all 20 queries with materialization disabled is around 753 min and is reduced to around 13 minutes when the results of whole jobs can be reused This scenario is probably not realistic but we believe it is highly indicative of the potential beneìts of the materialization and reuse framework The non-I/O overheads are introduced by the execution of the Match and Rewrite algorithm and the access to MySQL Cluster We have found that the nonI/O overheads are negligible when compared to I/O overheads Creating a session to access MySQL cluster takes the longest time We have collected around 200 values of session creation time 62.6 of them being around 780 ms The execution time of the Match and Rewrite algorithm is also at the order of ms The measured time includes computing the ngerprints lookup of matched plan and MySQL Cluster read/write operations VII R ELATED W ORK Restore is a non-concurrent sharing frame w ork b uilt on top of Pig which uses materialized results for query optimization The main idea is very similar to our work but it is designed exclusively for Pig on Hadoop and operates on the physical level Restore consists of four components a sub-job enumerator a matcher and rewriter a repository and a sub-job selector The sub-job enumerator selects sub-jobs for materialization and the matcher and rewriter performs match and rewrite of plans In our implementation both functionalities are performed by the Plan Matcher and Rewriter The repository is used to store execution statistics and is analogous to MySQL Cluster in m2r2 An important implementation difference is that ReStore stores and matches the plan object while we use ngerprints to identify and match plans Moreover garbage collection is not implemented We have not included an comparative evaluation of our implementation with ReStore because to the best of our knowledge the system was not publicly available at the time this paper was written Incoop is a non-concurrent sharing frame w ork that can reuse results for incremental computation It detects input data changes by using content-based chunks instead of xedsize chunks to locate les During the map phase results of the unchanged chunks are fetched from the le system and processed by mapper During the incremental reduce phase Incoop not only stores the nal results but also stores subcomputation results by introducing an additional phase called the contraction phase During contraction the input of a reduce job is split into chunks which are processed by combiners Thus the result is computed by combining the results of unchanged chunks and the output of the combiners Unlike Incoop we focus at identifying the computations sharing the same input and not inputs sharing the same computations Microsoft has conducted remarkable research on query optimization by materializing results DryadInc the Nectar  and Comet 5 being the most representati v e systems related to our work All are built upon the Dryad/DryadLINQ and like us assume an append-only le system DryadInc is similar to Incoop and focuses on non-concurrent sharing incremental computation It uses two heuristics to do incremental computation identical computation and mergeable computation Nectar is a non-concurrent sharing framework which aims to improve both computation efìciency and storage utilization Regarding computation it uses a program rewriter and a cache server to avoid redundant computations similar to DryadInc For data management it uses a mechanism to store all executed programs and materialize all computation results When the garbage collection process detects the existence of computation results that have not been accessed for a long time it replaces them with the programs that produce them Comet enables both concurrent sharing and non-concurrent sharing It performs three kinds of optimizations query normalization logical optimization and physical optimization In query normalization phase a single query is split into subqueries which can be reused by other sub-queries Moreover each sub-query is tagged with a time stamp so that the system can identify whether a set of sub-queries from different queries that can be executed together During logical optimization common sub-queries are detected and are executed for only once Reordering is also enabled in order to expose more common expressions Comet also considers co-location when replicating materialized results for reducing network trafìc During physical optimization shared scan and shared shufîing are performed While all the above systems assume Dryan/LINQ as the programming and execution environment in our work we have designed a language-independent and extensible framework for storing managing and using previous job and sub-job results Our initial prototype of the m2r2 framework is built on top of the Pig dataîow system and can be easily extended to support other platforms VIII C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK The problem of computation redundancy is very relevant in big data systems Several studies have shown large similarities in data analysis queries and suggest that any type of caching techniques would greatly beneìt data analysis frameworks Following the idea of materialized views in relational databases we have examined the possibility of porting this technique in big data environments In this work we present m2r2 a results materialization and reuse framework for highlevel dataîow systems We have examined and compared several popular high-level dataîow languages and execution engines and we have summarized their common properties and design characteristics We observe that the majority of systems 
3 Non-I/O Overheads 
900 
900 


follow very similar designs in their upper layers namely the language and logical plan layer while their physical layers differ signiìcantly We therefore present a design for integrating a materialization and reuse framework after the logical layer of high-level dataîow processing systems We have implemented an initial prototype framework on top of Pig/Hadoop and have used the TPC-H Benchmark to evaluate our work The results show that when there exists sharing opportunity query execution time can be immensely reduced by reusing previous results We also show that the induced overhead of materialization is quite small around 25 of the total execution time without materialization while nonI/O overheads are negligible We note that both beneìt and overhead are very sensitive to framework parameters such as sub-job selection strategy and garbage collection policy as well as speciìc workload characteristics There are a number of open issues and interesting paths to explore in the context of this research First we plan to extend m2r2 by decoupling it from the Pig framework and building a general component-based and extensible framework as described in Section IV We then intend to integrate it with other popular high-level systems We are also particularly interested in exploring possibilities of sharing and reusing results among different frameworks Furthermore we believe it is essential to obtain execution traces from industrial partners and big organizations in order to evaluate the gains and overheads of the materialization framework under more realistic conditions We would like to examine how beneìts are related to different workload characteristics data distributions and cluster sizes We intend to minize the imposed overhead by overlapping the materialization process with regular query execution thus moving it out of the critical path of the execution Finally we also wish to examine the possibility of extending m2r2 in order to support incremental computations and exploit concurrentsharing opportunities A CKNOWLEDGMENT This work was supported in part by the Erasmus Mundus Joint Doctorate in Distributed Computing EMJD-DC funded by the Education Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency EACEA of the European Commission under the FPA 20120030 and in part by the End-to-End Clouds project funded by the Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research SSF under the contract RIT10-0043 R EFERENCES  A F  Gates O Natk o vich S Chopra P  Kamath S M Narayanamurthy C Olston B Reed S Srinivasan and U Srivastava Building a high-level dataîow system on top of map-reduce the pig experience 
 vol 2 no 2 pp 1414Ö1425 Aug 2009  A Thusoo J S Sarma N Jain Z Shao P  Chakka S Anthon y  H Liu P Wyckoff and R Murthy Hive a warehousing solution over a mapreduce framework  vol 2 no 2 pp 1626Ö1629 Aug 2009  K S Be yer  V  Erce go v ac R Gemulla A Balmin M Y  Eltabakh C.-C Kanne F  Ozcan and E J Shekita Jaql A scripting language for large scale semistructured data analysis  vol 4 no 12 pp 1272Ö1283 2011  Y  Chen S Alspaugh and R Katz Interacti v e analytical processing in big data systems a cross-industry study of mapreduce workloads  vol 5 no 12 pp 1802Ö1813 Aug 2012  A v ailable http://dl.acm.or g/citation.cfm?id=2367502.2367519  B He M Y ang Z Guo R Chen B Su W  Lin and L Zhou Comet batched stream processing for data intensive distributed computing in  ser SoCC 10 New York NY USA ACM 2010 pp 63Ö74  L Popa M Budiu Y  Y u and M Isard Dryadinc reusing w ork in large-scale computations in  ser HotCloudê09 Berkeley CA USA USENIX Association 2009  P  K Gunda L Ra vindranath C A Thekkath Y  Y u and L Zhuang Nectar automatic management of data and computation in datacenters in  ser OSDIê10 Berkeley CA USA USENIX Association 2010 pp 1Ö8  J Goldstein and P A Larson Optimizing queries using materialized views a practical scalable solution in  ser SIGMOD 01 New York NY USA ACM 2001 pp 331Ö342  J Y ang K Karlapalem and Q Li  Algorithms for materialized vie w design in data warehousing environment in  ser VLDB 97 San Francisco CA USA Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc 1997 pp 136Ö145  S Agra w al S Chaudhuri and V  R Narasayya  Automated selection of materialized views and indexes in sql databases in  ser VLDB 00 San Francisco CA USA Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc 2000  I Elghandour and A Aboulnaga Restore reusing results of mapreduce jobs  vol 5 no 6 pp 586Ö597 Feb 2012  R S Xin J Rosen M Zaharia M J Franklin S Shenk er  and I Stoica Shark Sql and rich analytics at scale in  ser SIGMOD 13 New York NY USA ACM 2013 pp 13Ö24  M Zaharia M Cho wdhury  M J Franklin S Shenk er  and I Stoica Spark cluster computing with working sets in  ser HotCloudê10 Berkeley CA USA USENIX Association 2010 pp 10Ö10  V  Kala vri V  Vlasso v  and P  Brand Ponic Using stratosphere to speed up pig analytics in  2013 pp 279Ö290  D Battr  e S Ewen F Hueske O Kao V Markl and D Warneke Nephele/PACTs A programming model and execution framework for web-scale analytical processing in  ser SoCC 10 New York NY USA ACM 2010 pp 119Ö130  A Y  Hale vy   Answering queries using vie ws A surv e y    vol 10 no 4 pp 270Ö294 Dec 2001  A Gupta and I S Mumick Materialized vie ws  A Gupta and I S Mumick Eds Cambridge MA USA MIT Press 1999 ch Maintenance of materialized views problems techniques and applications pp 145Ö157  Y  Y u M Isard D Fetterly  M Budiu U Erlingsson P  K Gunda and J Currey Dryadlinq a system for general-purpose distributed dataparallel computing using a high-level language in   ser OSDIê08 Berkeley CA USA USENIX Association 2008 pp 1Ö14  K Shv achk o H K uang S Radia and R Chansler  The hadoop distributed le system in  ser MSST 10 Washington DC USA IEEE Computer Society 2010 pp 1Ö10  MySQL Cluster   http://www mysql.com/products/cluster Online Last accessed Aug  TPC-H Benchmark on Pig  http://issues.apache.or g/jira/bro wse/PIG2397 Online Last accessed Aug  P  Bhatotia A W ieder  R Rodrigues U A Acar  and R P asquin Incoop Mapreduce for incremental computations in  ser SOCC 11 New York NY USA ACM 2011 pp 7:1Ö7:14 
Proc VLDB Endow Proc VLDB Endow PVLDB Proc VLDB Endow Proceedings of the 1st ACM symposium on Cloud computing Proceedings of the 2009 conference on Hot topics in cloud computing Proceedings of the 9th USENIX conference on Operating systems design and implementation Proceedings of the 2001 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases Proc VLDB Endow Proceedings of the 2013 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data Proceedings of the 2nd USENIX conference on Hot topics in cloud computing Euro-Par Proceedings of the 1st ACM symposium on Cloud computing The VLDB Journal Proceedings of the 8th USENIX conference on Operating systems design and implementation Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE 26th Symposium on Mass Storage Systems and Technologies MSST Proceedings of the 2nd ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing 
901 
901 


     Fig 12 Results comparison Planned routes top left Passenger ow comparison of two segments at different frequency top right Opened nightbus routes bottom left Number of delivered passengers at different frequency  R 1 vs R 2  bottom right is motivated by the needs of applying pervasive sensing communication and computing technology for sustainable city development To solve the problem we propose a two-phase approach for night-bus route planning In the rst phase we devise method to identify locations of the candidate bus stops with the passenger pick-ups and drop-offs as inputs In the second phase with the bus route origin destination and candidate bus stops as inputs we develop two heuristic algorithms to automatically generate candidate bus routes and nally we select the best route which expects the maximum number of passengers under the given conditions On a real-world dataset which contains more than 1.57 million passenger delivery trips we compare our proposed candidate bus stop identiìcation method with the popular k means clustering method and show that our method can generate more reasonable and meaningful results We further extensively evaluate our proposed probability based spreading algorithm for automatic bus route generation and validate its effectiveness as well as its superior performance over the heuristic topk spreading algorithm Further more we show the selected night-bus route with our proposed approach is better than a newly started night-bus route-in-service in Hangzhou China This work is among our initial attempts to apply pervasive computing techniques in achieving better urban planning of smart cities With the constraints of the approach and the acquired data this work still has several limitations 1 Human mobility patterns uncovered by taxi GPS traces are biased and incomplete thus the designed bus route might not be the best considering the fact that taxi trafìc does not reîect the whole passenger ow and people taking taxis might not be willing to switch to public transport for various reasons 2 The work makes some assumptions in problem formulation and evaluation for example for bus stop determination we set the walkable distance as 500 meters and the threshold for cluster split and merge is 150 meters apparently the choice of those parameters would affect the results but a study of the parameter sensitivity is not provided due to the space limitation 3 Currently we only explore the issue of designing the best bus route for a given OD pair the proposed approach is still unable to tackle the design of a bus route network In the future we plan to broaden and deepen this work in several directions First we attempt to investigate the optimal bus route design with more real-life assumptions such as varied bus operation frequency and limited bus capacity Second we plan to study the impact of parameter change on the bus route design and the added bus route on the taxi services along the bus route Third we would like to develop practical systems leveraging on taxi GPS traces enabling a series of pervasive smart transportation services A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS We would like to thank the shepherd Dr Petteri Nurmi and the reviewers for their constructive suggestions This research was partially supported by the Paris-Region SYSTEM@TIC Smart City AQUEDUC Program NSF of China No 61105043 and JiangsuSF BK2011566 R EFERENCES  D L Apple gate R E Bixby  V  Chv atal and W  J Cook The Traveling Salesman Problem A Computational Study  Princeton University Press 2007  F  Bastani Y  Huang X Xie and J W  Po well A greener transportation mode exible routes discovery from GPS trajectory data In Proc of GIS  pages 405Ö408 2011  L Cao and J Krumm From GPS traces to a routable road map In Proc of the ACM GIS  pages 3Ö12 2009  P  S Castro D Zhang and S Li Urban traf c modelling and prediction using large scale taxi GPS traces In Proc of Pervasive Computing  pages 57Ö72 2012  T  A Chua The planning of urban b u s routes and frequencies A surv e y  Transportation  12\(2 1984  Y  Ge H Xiong A T uzhilin K Xiao M Gruteser  and M P azzani An energy-efìcient mobile recommender system In Proc of ACM SIGKDD  pages 899Ö908 2010  V  Guihaire and J.-K Hao T ransit netw ork design and scheduling A global review Transportation Research Part A Policy and Practice  42\(10  1273 2008  L Liu C Andris and C Ratti Unco v ering cabdri v ers beha vior patterns from their digital traces Computers Environment and Urban Systems  34\(6  548 2010  B M.H and M H.S TR UST A Lisp program for the analysis of transit route conìgurations Transportation Research Record  1283:125Ö135 1990  G F  Ne well Some issues relating to the optimal design of b u s routes Transportation Science  13\(1 1979  G P an G Qi Z W u  D  Zhang and S Li Land-use classiìcation using taxi GPS traces IEEE Trans on ITS  99 2012  Z W ang and J Cro wcroft Analysis of shortest-path routing algorithms in a dynamic network environment SIGCOMM Comput Commun Rev  22\(2 1992  J Y uan Y  Zheng and X Xie Disco v ering re gions of dif ferent functions in a city using human mobility and POIs In Proc of ACM SIGKDD  pages 186Ö194 2012  J Y uan Y  Zheng C Zhang W  Xie X Xie G Sun and Y  Huang T-drive driving directions based on taxi trajectories In Proc of the GIS  pages 99Ö108 2010  J Y uan Y  Zheng L Zhang X Xie and G Sun Where to nd my next passenger In Proc of UbiComp  pages 109Ö118 2011  D Zhang B Guo and Z Y u  The emer gence of social and community intelligence Computer  44\(7 28 2011  D Zhang N Li Z.-H Zhou C Chen L Sun and S Li iB A T  detecting anomalous taxi trajectories from GPS traces In Proc of UbiComp  pages 99Ö108 2011  Y  Zheng Y  Liu J Y uan and X Xie Urban computing with taxicabs In Proc of UbiComp  pages 89Ö98 2011 233 


Control and Prediction of Beliefs on Social Network Beamforming and Array Signal Processing Robust Source Localization and Tracking using MUSIC-Group Delay Spectrum\ over Spherical Arrays Bayesian Cyclic Bounds for Periodic Parameter Estimation Performance of TOA and FOA-based Localization for Cospas-Sarsat Search a\nd Rescue Signals Performance Analysis of ESPRIT-Type Algorithms for Strictly Non-Circular\ Sources Using Structured Least Squares Approximate maximum likelihood direction of arrival estimation for two c\losely spaced sources Adaptive Beamforming with Augmentable Arrays in Non-Stationary Environme\nts On an Iterative Method for Direction of Arrival Estimation using Multipl\e Frequencies Filter Bank Based Fractional Delay Filter Implementation for Widely Accu\rate Broadband Steering Vectors Experimental Results of Compressive Sensing Based Imaging in Ultrasonic \Non-Destructive Testing Sparsity-Enforcing Sensor Selection for DOA Estimation 


Constrained Imaging for Radio Astronomy Advances in Sequential Monte Carlo Methods A Rao-Blackwellized Random Exchange Diffusion Particle Filter for Distri\buted Emitter Tracking Particle Filtering for High-Dimensional Systems On Marginal Particle Filters with Linear Complexity Particle Filtering with Progressive Gaussian Approximations to the Optim\al Importance Density Particle filtering with transformed weights Particle filter implementation of the multi-Bernoulli filter for superpo\sitional sensors Satellite Communications - Signal Processing Challenges      Spectrum Sensing for Cognitive Radio Systems Adaptive Block Sampling for Spectrum Sensing Distributed Spectrum Sensing in Cognitive Radios via Graphical Models Frequency Domain Distributed OFDM Source Detection 


Cyclostationary Detection from Sub-Nyquist Samples for Cognitive Radios:\ Model Reconciliation Dynamic Learning for Cognitive Radio Sensing Distributed Spectrum Sensing in the Presence of Selfish Users Radar Array Processing and STAP Root-MUSIC Based Source Localization Using Transmit Array Interpolation \in MIMO Radar With Arbitrary Planar Arrays Aperture Varying Autoregressive Covariance Modeling for 2D Oversampled R\eceive Arrays DOA Estimation Using a Sparse Uniform Linear Array with Two CW Signals o\f Co-prime Frequencies Invariant Target Detection of MIMO Radar with Unknown Parameters Multidimensional Low-Rank Filter based on the AU-HOSVD for MIMO STAP Cyber Attacks on a Power Grid and Counter Measures     Signal and Information Processing in Energy Grids 


A Framework for Actuator Placement in Large Scale Power Systems: Minimal\ Strong Structural Controllability Dynamic Topology Adaptation for Distributed Estimation in Smart Grids Study of Nonlinear Power Optimization Problems using Algebraic Graph The\ory Advances in Decentralized State Estimation for Power Systems Monitoring Disturbances in Smart Grids Using Distributed Sequential Chan\ge Detection Online Learning of Load Elasticity for Electric Vehicle Charging Cognitive Radio and Radar Networks Compressive Angular and Frequency Periodogram Reconstruction for Multiba\nd Signals A Bilateral-Market based Mechanism for Spectrum Allocation in Cognitive \Radio Networks Adaptive PRF Selection Technique for Multiple Targets in Track-Before-De\tect Primary Receiver Localization Using Sparsity and Interference Tweets Distributed Throughput Maximization for Multi-Channel ALOHA Networks Estimation, Learning, and Optimization for the Smart Grids Hybrid Energy Storage and Generation Planning with Large Renewable Penet\ration 


Estimating Frequency of Three-Phase Power Systems via Widely-Linear Mode\ling and Total Least-Squares Distributed Demand Response for Plug-in Electrical Vehicles in the Smart\ Grid Stochastic Programming for Energy Planning in Microgrids with Renewables Wireless Communications Optimization of the Rate Adaptation Procedures in xDSL Systems Expected Likelihood Support for Blind SIMO Channel Identification Error Exponents for Bias Detection of a Correlated Process over a MAC Fa\ding Channel Known-Interference Aware Iterative MMSE Filter Design for Non-Regenerati\ve Multi-Way Relaying Multicast Relay Beamforming through Dual Approach Reduced-Complexity Distributed Beamforming Algorithm for Individual Rela\y Power Constraints Multi-Relay Network Design Using Power-Normalized SNR 


15   daily dose equivalents due to GCR exposure is found to be 2.03\32710 4 Sv d 1 and 2.31\32710 4 Sv d 1 respectively. For a wall thickness of 27.0 g cm 2 these values were determined to be 4.27\32710 4 Sv d 1 and 3.56\32710 4 Sv d 1 These results are consistent with the previous results in the sense the build-up from the adjacent modules will act in a similar manner as the increased shielding thickness in the simple cylinder simulations. This build-up effect is less significant for TR exposures. These results demonstrate that in addition to the distribution of shielding within any module, the geometry of the ISS itself also plays an important role. This exercise illustrates the complexity associated with the modelling of the radiation environment inside the ISS 5  S UMMARY  A semi-empirical model has been developed for possible use in radiation mission planning aboard the International Space Station \(ISS\his semi-empirical model is derived from operational data obtained with a tissue equivalent proportional counter \(TEPC\that were collected aboard the ISS from 2001 and 2008 and provides estimates of the TEPC measured operational quantity of dose equivalent due to GCR and TR exposures for a given set of ISS statevectors. The GCR model provides a correlation of the TEPC dose equivalent rate to the effective vertical cutoff rigidity Influences of altitude and localized shielding dependencies on the GCR dose equivalent rate have been shown to be negligible. To account for moderate solar activity, the heliocentric potential parameter U is used to provide a linear interpolation between solar maximum and minimum conditions. The GCR model is valid for all locations inside the ISS. The TR model correlates the mean daily TEPC dose equivalent rate to the mean atmospheric density at the crossing of the South Atlantic Anomaly \(SAA\etric models were developed to specifically provide exposure estimates of the TEPC dose equivalent for all passes over the SAA and including ascending and descending components individually. The TR model is valid for the TEPC located at Zvezda Service Module Panel 327 \(SM327\d for an orientation perpendicular to the ISS velocity vector. The influence of the TEPC detector orientation on the TR dose equivalent was shown to be important. The model has been implemented into a code called ISSCREM and benchmarked against TEPC data not used in the model development. The model has successfully predicted the GCR and TR dose equivalent components to within \26110% and \26120%, respectively over periods of time ranging from daily dose estimates to a cumulative dose estimates collected over many months. A sensitivity analysis on the solar activity inputs used in the predictive models for GCR and TR exposures have demonstrated that the model behaves well given projected solar activity indices In addition to predictions of the dose equivalent, estimates of the protection quantity of effective dose equivalent have been made using the Particle and Heavy Ion Transport Code System \(PHITS\ Ambient-to-effective dose equivalent conversion factors E  H  10\ have been determined for simple and complex representations of the ISS Zvezda Service Module. These conversion factors have been determined for GCR and TR exposures at solar maximum and minimum conditions and for varying wall thicknesses ranging from 5.4 g cm 2 to 27.0 g cm 2 Al. Preliminary results indicate that the TEPC dose equivalent provides a conservative estimate of the protection quantity of effective dose equivalent R EFERENCES  1  Reitz, G., Facius, R., Sandler, H. \223Radiation Protection in Space\224. Acta Astronautica, Vol. 35, pp. 313-338 1995 2  Tascione, T. \223Introduction to the Space Environment 2 nd Edition\224. Orbit, 1994 3  Bothmer, V. and Daglis, I. \223Space Weather Physics and Effects\224. Springer, 2009 4  Heinrich, W., Roesler, S., Schraube, H. \223Physics of Cosmic Radiation Fields\224. Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol. 86, pp. 253 \226 258, 1999 5  Badhwar, G. D. \223The Radiation Environment in LowEarth Orbit\224. Radiation Research, Vol. 148, pp. S3 \226 S10, 1997 6  223Report G-083-1999: Guide to Modeling Earth\222s Trapped Radiation Environment\224. American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 1999 7  Smart, D. F., Shea, M. A., Fluckiger, E. O 223Magnetospheric Models and Trajectory Computations\224. Space Science Reviews, Vol. 93, pp 305 \226 333, 2000 8  Hartmann, G. A. and Pacca, I. G. \223Time Evolution of the South Atlantic Magnetic Anomaly\224. Annals of the Brazilian Academy of Sciences, Vol. 81, pp. 243 \226 255, 2009 9  Badhwar, G. D. \223Drift Rate of the South Atlantic Anomaly\224. Journal of Geophysical Research, Vol. 102 pp. 2343 \226 2349, 1997 10  Heynderickx, D., \223Comparison Between Methods to Compensate for the Secular Motion of the South Atlantic Anomaly\224. Radiation Measurements, Vol. 26 pp. 369 \226 373, 1997 11  Furst, F., Wilms, J., Rothschilde, R. E., Pottschmidt K., Smith D. M., Ligenfelter, R. \223Temporal Variations of Strength and Location of the South Atlantic Anomaly as Measured by RXTE\224. Earth and Planetary Science Letters, Vol. 281, pp. 125 \226 133, 2009 12  Badhwar, G. D., Shurshakov, V. A., Tsetlin, V. V 223Solar Modulation of Dose Rate Onboard the Mir Station\224. Transactions on Nuclear Science, Vol. 44, pp 2529 \226 2541, 1997 13  Golightly, M. J., Badhwar, G. D., Dunlap, M. J., Patel S. H. \223Solar-Cycle Modulation of the Trapped Proton Radiation Exposure Inside the Space Shuttle\224. Solar 


16   Drivers of Interplanetary and Terrestrial Disturbances Vol. 95, pp. 505 \226 517, 1996 14  Badhwar, G. D. \223Radiation Dose Rates in Space Shuttle as a Function of Atmospheric Density\224 Radiation Measurements, Vol. 30, pp. 401 \226 414 1999 15  O\222Neill, P. M. and Badhwar, G. D. \223Galactic Cosmic Radiation Model and its Applications\224. Advances in Space Research, Vol. 17, pp. 7 \226 17, 1996 16  Lewis, B. J., Bennett, L. G. I., Green, A. R., McCall M. J., Ellaschuk, B., Butler, A., Pierre, M. \223Galactic and Solar Radiation Exposure to Aircrew during a Solar Cycle\224. Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol 102, pp. 207 \226 227, 2002 17  Lewis, B. J., Tume, P., Bennett, L. G. I., Pierre, M Green, A. R., Cousins, T., Hoffarth, B. E., Jones, T. A Brisson, J. R. \223Cosmic Radiation Exposure on Canadian-Based Commercial Airline Routes\224 Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol. 86, pp. 7 \226 24 1999 18  K. Niita, N. Matsuda, Y. Iwamoto, H. Iwase, T. Sato H. Nakashima, Y. Sakamoto and L. Sihver, PHITS Particle and Heavy Ion Transport code System Version 2.23, JAEA-Data/Code 2010-022 \(2010 19  El-Jaby, S., \223A Model for Predicting Radiation Exposure for Mission Planning Aboard the International Space Station\224. Royal Military College of Canada, 2012 20  Space Radiation Analysis Group NASA. [Private Communicatio  21  223Goddard Space Flight Center Space Physics Data Facility\224. National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Available from http://cdaweb.gsfc.nasa.gov 22  Smart, D. F., Shea, M. A., Tylka, A. J., Boberg, P. R 223A Geomagnetic Cutoff rigidity Interpolation Tool Accuracy Verification and Application to Space Weather\224. Advances in Space Research, Vol. 37, pp 1206 \226 1217, 2006 23  Smart, D. F. and Shea, M. A. \223A Review of Geomagnetic Cutoff Rigidities for Earth-Orbiting Spacecraft\224. Advances in Space Research, Vol. 36, pp 2012 \226 2020, 2005 24  Ersmark, T., Carlson, P., Daly, E., Fuglesang, C Gudowska, I., Lund-Jensen, B., Nieminen, P., Pearce M., Santin, G. \223Geant4 Monte Carlo Simulations of the Belt Proton Radiation Environment On Board the International Space Staiton/Columbus\224. IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science, Vol. 54, pp. 1444 \226 1453, 2007 25  Ersmark, T., Carlson, P., Daly, E., Fuglesang, C Gudowska, I., Lund-Jensen, B., Nieminen, P., Pearce M., Santin, G. \223Geant4 Monte Carlo Simulations of the Galactic Cosmic Ray Radiation Environment On Board the International Space Staiton/Columbus\224 IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science, Vol. 54, pp 1854 \226 1862, 2007 26  O\222Brien, K., Felsberger, E., Kindl, P. \223Application of the Heliocentric Potential to Aircraft Dosimetry\224 Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol. 116, pp. 336 \226 342, 2005 27  223Heliocentric Potential\224. Federal Aviation Administration, 2012. Available from http://www.faa.gov/data_research/research/med_huma nfacs/aeromedical/radiobiology/heliocentric 28  O\222Brien, T. P. \223NRLMSIS-00 MATLAB Script Routine\224. Office National d\222Etudes et Recherches A\351rospatiales \(ONERA 29  223National Geophysical Data Center\224. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 2012. Available from ftp://ftp.ngdc.noaa.gov/STP/SOLAR_DATA/SUNSPO T_NUMBERS/INTERNATIONAL 30  Easley, S. M. \(Capt. USAF\\223Anisotropy in the South Atlantic Anomaly\224. Wright-Patterson Air Force Base Department of the Air Force Air University \226 Air Force Institute of Technology, 2007 31  Dachev, T. P., Semkova, J., Tomov, B., Matviichuk Y., Dimitrov, P., Koleva, R., Malchev, S., Reitz, G Horneck, G., De Angelis, G., Hader, D., Petrov, V Shurshakov, V., Benghin, V., Chernykh, I Drobyshev, S., Bankov, N. G. \223Space Shuttle Drops Down the SAA Doses on ISS\224. Advances in Space Research, Vol. 47, Issue 11, Pages. 2030 \226 2038, 2011 32  223ICRP 103: The 2007 Recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological Protection\224 International Commission on Radiological Protection 2007 33  Lewis, B. J., Desormeaux, M., Green, A. R., Bennett L. G. I., Butler, A., McCall, M., Saex Vergara, J. C 223Assessment of Aircrew Radiation Exposure by Further Measurements and Model Development\224 Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol. 111, pp. 151 \226 171, 2004 34  Sato, T., Endo, A., Zankl, M., Petoussi-Henss, N Yasuda H., Niita, K. \223Fluence-to-dose conversion coefficients for aircrew dosimetry based on the new ICRP Recommendations\224, Progress in Nuclear Science and Technology, Vol. 1, pp. 134 \226 137, 2011 35  Sato, T., Endo, A., Zankl, M., Petoussi-Henss, N Yasuda H., Niita, K. \223Fluence-to-dose conversion coefficients for neutrons and protons calculated using the PHITS code and ICRP/ICRU adult reference computational phantoms\224, Physics in Medicine and Biology, Vol. 54, pp. 1997 \226 2014, 2009 36  Sato, T., Endo, A., Niita, K. \223Fluence-to-dose conversion coefficients for heavy ions calculated using the PHITS code and ICRP/ICRU adult reference computational phantoms\224, Physics in Medicine and Biology, Vol. 55, pp. 2235 \226 2246, 2010 37  223Cosmic Ray Effects on Micro-Electronics Code\224 Venderbilt University School of Engineering, 2012 Available from: https://creme.isde.vanderbilt.edu 


17   38  Gustafsson, K., Sihver, L., Mancusi, D., Sato, T Niita, K. \223Simulations of the Radiation Environment at ISS Altitudes\224. Acta Astronautica, Vol. 65, pp. 279 \226 288, 2009 39  Koliskova, Z., Sihver, L., Ambrozova, I., Sato, t Spurny, Shurshakov, V. A. \223Simulations of Absorbed Dose on the Phantom Surface of MATROSHKA-R Experiment at the ISS\224. Advances in Space Research Vol. 49, pp. 230 \226 236, 2012 40  Gustafsson, K., Sihver, L., Mancusi, D., Sato, T Reitz, G., Berger, T. \223PHITS Simulations of the Matroshka Experiment\224. Advances in Space Research Vol. 46, pp. 1266 \226 1272, 2010 41  223Zvezda Service Module\224. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2012. Available from http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/structure/e lements/sm.html 42  223Zarya Module\224. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2012. Available from http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/structure/e lements/fgb.html 43  223Pirs Docking Compartment\224. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2012. Available from http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/structure/e lements/pirs.html 44  Sihver, L., Sato, T., Gustafsson, K., Mancusi, D Iwase, H., Niita, K., Nakashima, H., Sakamoto, Y Iwamoto, Y., Matsuda, N. \223An Update About Recent Developments of the PHITS Code\224. Advances in Space Research, Vol. 45, pp. 892 \226 899, 2010 45  Sihver, L., Sato, T., Puchalska, M., Reitz, G 223Simulations of the MATROSHKA  Experiment at the International Space Station Using PHITS\224. Radiation and Environmental Biophysics, Vol. 49, pp. 351 \226 357 2010 46  Puchalska, M., Sihver, L., Sato, T., Berger, T 223Simulations of MATROSHKA experiments at ISS using PHITS\224, Advances in Space Research, Vol. 50 pp. 489-495,  2012 47  V. McLane et al 223ENDF/B-VI Summary Documentation\224, BNL-NCS-17541, 1996 48  K. Shibata et al 223Japanese Evaluated Nuclear Data Library Version 3 Revision-3: JENDLE-3.3\224, Journal of Nuclear Science and Technology, Vol. 39, pp. 1125 226 1134, 2002 49  Y. Watanabe et al 223Nuclear data evaluations for JENDL high-energy file\224, Proceedings of International Conference on Nuclear Data for Science and Technology, Santa Fe, USA, Sep.26-Oct.1, 2004; AIP CP769, p326-331, 2005 50  Y. Nara et al 223Relativistic nuclear collisions at 10A GeV energies from p+Be to Au+Au with the hadronic cascade model\224, Physics Review C, Vol. 61, I.D 024901, 1999 51  T. Fukahori et al 223JENDL High Energy File\224, Journal of Nuclear Science and Technology, Suppl  2, 25-30 2002 52  Ziegler, J. F. and Biersack, J. P. \223SRIM \226 The Stopping and Range of Ions in Matter\224. 2012 Available from: http://www.srim.org/#SRIM 53  Sato, T., Endo, A., Sihver, L., Niita, K. \223Dose Estimation for Astronauts Using Dose Conversion Coefficients Calculated with the PHITS code and the ICRP/ICRU adult reference computation phantoms\224 Radiation and Environmental Biophysics, Vol. 50, pp 115 \226 123, 2011 54  Pelliccioni, M. \223Overview of Fluence-to-Effective Dose and Fluence-to-Ambient Dose Equivalent Conversion Coefficients for High Energy Radiation Calculated Using the FLUKA Code\224. Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol. 88, Issue 4, pp. 279 \226 297 2000 B IOGRAPHY  In 2007 Samy El-Jaby received his B.A.Sc. in Engineering Physics from Queen\222s University, Canada. From 2007 to 2009, he earned a MSc in Medical Physics at McGill University and following this, he completed a PhD in Nuclear Engineering from the Royal Military College of Canada where his focus was on the topic of radiation dosimetry for space-crew aboard the ISS. Currently, he is a Postdoctoral Fellow at Atomic Energy of Canada Limited where he is continuing research into space radiation dosimetry Brent Lewis \(BSc in Physics 1978, MEng in Aerospace Science and Engineering, 1980 and PhD in Nuclear Engineering 1984 from the University of Toronto\ a Professor of Nuclear Engineering in the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering at the Royal Military College of Canada \(RMC\ince 1988 Previously, he worked at Atomic Energy of Canada Limited from 1980-1988 where he was section head of fuel performance modelling at the Chalk River Laboratories.  His research has principally focused on nuclear fuel behaviour for normal and reactor accident conditions as well as aircrew/spacecrew radiation exposure. He has received several awards from the American Nuclear Society, appointed a fellow of the Canadian Nuclear Society in 2002 and received the university research excellence prize in 2007. He was also awarded an NSERC/UNENE/COG Industrial Research Chair in Nuclear Fuel in September 2007 


18   Leena Tomi began work with the Canadian Space Agency in 1989 is currently the Deputy Director of Operational Space Medicine OSM\roup. She is also responsible for the OSM Space Radiation as well as the Human Behaviour and Performance activities carried out by the CSA and works intimately with the CSA Astronaut Office to ensure that CSA astronauts are provided the support they require to carry out their missions  In 1986 Lembit Sihver received his MSc in Chemical Engineering at the Royal Institute of Technology \(KTH Stockholm, Sweden. In 1988 he received his Licentiate of Technology in Nuclear Chemistry/Nuclear Physics, Uppsala University Uppsala, Sweden, and in 1990 he became Dr. of Technology \(PhD Nuclear Chemistry/Nuclear Physics at Uppsala University. Sihver is a full Professor of Nuclear Science and Engineering and Head of the Nuclear Science and Engineering Research Group, Division of Nuclear Engineering, Dept. of Applied Physics, at Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden. He is an Adjunct Professor at the Royal Military College of Canada, as well as at Roanoke College, University of Houston, and Texas A&M University in the USA, and at the Medical College of Soochow University in China. Sihver\222s major research areas are heavy ion physics, particle and heavy ion transport, heavy ion therapy, space radiation shielding and space dosimetry In 2001 Tatsuhiko Sato received his PhD in Nuclear Engineering at Kyoto University. Since 2001 he has worked in Japan Atomic Energy Agency \(JAEA\ for developing the Particle and Heavy Ion Transport code System PHITS, especially in terms of the radiation protection and medical physics. He is a member of the task group on radiation protection in space in International Committee on Radiological Protection \(ICRP His major research areas are radiation biophysics, nuclear reaction model radiation protection and cosmic-ray transport simulation   Dr. Kerry T. Lee has been a Physical Scientist at NASA/JSC since 2009 and is currently the head of the Space Radiation Analysis Group at NASA/JSC       Steve Johnson received his B.S. in Nuclear Engineering in 1977 and PhD in Aerospace Engineering Sciences in 1990.  Prior to working at the Johnson Space Center, he worked nuclear reactor plant start-up projects with the U.S. Navy and with Louisiana Power and Light Waterford 3 nuclear power plant, the first in plant operations and the latter as an integrated test engineer.  Since arriving at Johnson Space Center in 1990, primary efforts focused on Space Station projects supporting the radiation monitoring system, and radiation investigations on both the space shuttle and the NASA/Mir program.  In 1998 he moved to the Space Radiation Analysis Group which is responsible for supporting manned space flight as operational members of mission control regarding radiation health protection for the crew during flight. His primary focus is on operational aspects of space weather monitoring and evaluating space radiation measurements on ISS   


aZN%.#1064'6%"#%56;6#,6 4/4%C33 S+#/6'/%c%Z  3 


 


Q 60163/"+#%+7  S+d6`"'/%W"/=%e  56f,"06L6  6#/"4 6L4  567606#16 Q0"16  S+L36  4$6    563  





               Q0"16 Q W60 1+#',L3 Q 607+0L4#16  4004 366 g>++/"#$%-366&h 366 g>++/"#$%-366&h 366 g>++/"#$%-366&h 


    0   1 1   2 3  4 1 5    Ci\(85i925  V-%E A QTCS8 4/4%C33 04#&%Q0"j6 


C#4 4 





0.00  1.00  2.00  0  0  0  0.00  1.00  2.00  6#/"L6#/%!43 1,/6  3061 1  6#60 6/"1  T+;6  R06  306  306      1+#7 6  6     36076 1  0   _64 7  6  0$6  1 4/,0 4 3 14 6 _0 W40L 640 6 4//041 6 7 16 L40 6 6 3 4 7 1=660 7 1 7066 6`1  433  7  1="1 6 6 160 6 60  0416 7    40D     j  46*6    C  9"L 46 e66  e4 4  T66  l  B   0  40D     T66 e*+0  9"L 4  Ad 404  e4%l   T66%l C  ZB8E  l4 96 D  T66 6   l e   l    5 e S=6  S=4 6    40D l    l46 D  l _   04   40D e4#d _*6   e404  9404  l,#%l"d   F  6   60 0   l"d   S 9W   l 9  40D l    e   9"L e*6    6d 9     


0.00  1.00  2.00  1.00  2.00  1.00  0.00  1.00  2.00  0416 7  1  3 14 6  mn  op 3061 1  6 6  6     4//041 6  7066 7  1=660 7  36076 1 1+L7 0/4_ 6  _64 7  f,"6  1,/6  W40L 640 6  306  1+#7 6 P"$+0   433  6  q+*7  B4/,0 4  6  rsp  D   16  Q0+&,1/H%2114'"+#%b%>04  6#/"L6#/%!43 L+;"6  Q0 _4'6_ 4  4L6  04L 4  140  6 60  l64  6$6 40"4  0"3 1+776 6  l   L,'"1  1++D   0"3  14L3   33   0   3"1#"1  70"6  W4  _"1*1 6  14  3,33   W"#6  140   CL 6L6 340D  1+776 6  7 6 S=4 6#$6  4/6    06  S+,3 6%0  06'/4 04  D  q64  306'6   L40 3 6  66  414   4W  e 46  46W   40  46 4D%0  4 4L 4   4L1 6    1476  W66D 6  2 04  S+6  4 Q 6  4'D  5+__  9K  4   64   S+776 6 64  e60L 6  S=4 6  56   40 4 6//6 Q04&4  e4jj   2  9"6  0$6 0%9  T    40_ 1D  _     


_64,/"7  6$6/40 4  9"6  S+LL,#"14 2 04  


  


  


 6L+$04 3="1 Q 01=4'6 e"'/+0 S 064L T+14 56'3+#'6 54/6 ttt  64/=60 64 S+#',L6 4//60 1+L6 T6;6 R 3  ttt  1"4 R 660 Q06'',06 6'"06 4 Q067606#1 6 T"76 8L 4 6#/"L6  ttt  S,'/+L60 C1  60 564  2,/'"&6 40"4_  


4/4%7+0%M:#&60'/4#&"#$%<=*O 016u%Q0+76''+0%\(06$%C  T61/,06%B+/6 


v wx yz   


            





A Parallel Hybrid Genetic Algorithm on Cloud Computing for the Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows 2467 AndrÈ Siqueira Ruela, Frederico Gadelha Guimar„es Ricardo Augusto Rabelo Oliveira, Brayan Neves, Vicente Peixoto Amorim and Larissa Maiara Fraga A Hybrid Technique Using Multi-objective Particle Swarm Optimization and Random Forests for PROBE Attacks Detection in a Network 2473 Arif Jamal Malik and Farrukh Aslam Khan Innovative Technologies and Applications in Computer Intelligence - C04-02 Strategy Selection by Reinforcement Learning for Multi-car Elevator Systems 2479 Masaki Ikuta, Kenichi Takahashi, and Michimasa Inaba Deep Belief Network for Modeling Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning Policies 2485 Predrag D. Djurdjevic and Manfred Huber Artificial Neural Network Analysis of Twin Tunnelling-Induced Ground Settlements 2492 Seyed Amin Khatami, Alireza Mirhabibi, Abbas Khosravi, and Saeid Nahavandi A New Approach Based on Support Vector Machine for Solving Stochastic Optimization 2498 Seyed Amin Khatami, Abbas Khosravi, and Saeid Nahavandi Neuroevolution by Particle Swarm Optimization with Adaptive Input Selection for Controlling Platform-Game Agent 2504 Akira Hara, Jun-ichi Kushida, Koji Kitao, and Tetsuyuki Takahama Profiling Student Learning Styles with Multilayer Perceptron Neural Networks 2510 Annabel Latham, Keeley Crockett, and David Mclean Intelligent Learning in Control Systems - S02-01 Design of Data-Oriented GMDH-Based Controller 2516 S. Wakitani, G. Martins, and T. Yamamoto Integrated Modeling for Intelligent Battery Thermal Management 2522 Zhen Liu and Han-Xiong Li Embedded Design of an Emotion-Aware Music Player 2528 Carlos A. Cervantes and Kai-Tai Song Direct Adaptive Fuzzy-Wavelet-Neural-Network Control for Electric Two-Wheeled Robotic Vehicles 2534 Ching-Chih Tsai and Ching-Chih Tsai 
xli 


Model-Based Indirect Learning Method Based on Dyna-Q Architecture 2540 Kao-Shing Hwang, Wei-Cheng Jiang, Yu-Jen Chen, and Wei-Han Wang A System-Level Approach for Model-Based Verification of Distributed Software Systems 2545 Seyedehmehrnaz Mireslami and Behrouz H. Far Medical Image and Signal Processing - S22-03 Right Ventricle Segmentation by Temporal Information Constrained Gradient Vector Flow 2551 Xulei Yang, Si Yong Yeo, Yi Su, Calvin Lim, Min Wan, Liang Zhong and Ru San Tan An Early Development of Force Distribution Sensor Using Pressure-Sensitive Conductive Rubber for Soft Tissue Balance in Total Knee Arthroplasty 2556 Mohd Hanafi Mat Som, Kouki Nagamune, Takashi Kamiya, Shogo Kawaguchi Tomoyuki Matsumoto, Ryosuke Kuroda, and Masahiro Kurosaka An Evaluation Method of Force Concentration in PS Type of Total Knee Arthroplasty with Force Distribution Measurement System 2561 Takashi Kamiya, Shogo Kawaguchi, Mohd Hanafi Mat Som, Kouki Nagamune Tomoyuki Matsumoto, Ryosuke Kuroda, and Masaliiro Kurosaka An Improved Binarisation Algorithm for Nailfold Capillary Skeleton Extraction 2565 Niraj P. Doshi, Gerald Schaefer, and Shao Ying Zhu Production of the Grounds for Melanoma Classification Using Adaptive Fuzzy Inference Neural Network 2570 Yuji Ikuma and Hitoshi lyatomi Approaches to General Purpose GPU Acceleration of Digital Signal Processing in Optical Coherence Tomography Systems 2576 K.I. Kapinchev, F.R.M. Barnes, A. Bradu, and A.Gh. Podoleanu Smart Technologies for Civil Applications of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles - H11-01 Doing the Right Thing: Collision Avoidance for Autonomous Air Vehicles 2581 Chinmay Mishra, Mitul Mehta, Elias J. Griffith, and Jason F. Ralph Equivalence of BRISK Descriptors for the Registration of Variable Bit-Depth Aerial Imagery 2587 Elias J. Griffith, Yuan Chi, Michael Jump, and Jason F. Ralph Invariant Observer Design of a RGB-D Aided Inertial System for MAV in GPS-Denied Environments 2593 Dachuan Li, Qing Li, Nong Cheng, Jingyan Song, Qinfan Wu, and Liangwen Tang 
xlii 


Safer Flying Using an Immune-Inspired Adaptive Health Monitoring System 2600 Maizura Mokhtar and Joe Howe Scheduling UAV Surveillance Tasks, Lessons Learned from Trials with Users 2606 Jeremy Baxter, Scott Findlay, Martin Paxton, Andrew Berry, and Jon Platts QinetiQ SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-15 Gastric Lymph Node Cancer Detection of Multiple Features Classifier for Pathology Diagnosis Support System 2611 Takumi Ishikawa, Junko Takahashi, Hiroshi Takemura, Hiroshi Mizoguchi and Takeshi Kuwata Modelling Prey in Discrete Time Predator-Prey Systems 2617 Rory Mullan, David H. Glass, and Mark McCartney A Measuring and Analysis Method of Coupled Range of Motion of the Human Hands 2623 Natsuki Miyata, Yuki Shimizu, and Yusuke Maeda Multi-objective Optimization Using Pareto GA for Gene-Selection from Microarray Data for Disease Classification 2629 Goutam Chakraborty and Basabi Chakraborty Grasp Database That Covers Variation of Contact Region Usage 2635 Natsuki Miyata, Takayoshi Hironom, and Yusuke Maeda An Empirical Investigation of Virtual Screening 2641 Amir Ali Rafati-Afshar and Abdelhamid Bouchachia SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-16 Transition Learning between Balanced Ensemble Learning and Negative Correlation Learning 2647 Yong Liu, Qiangfu Zhao, and Neil Yen Profit Sharing That Can Learn Deterministic Policy for POMDPs Environments by Kohonen Feature Map Associative Memory 2651 Daichi Koma and Yuko Osana Using Genetic Algorithm to Improve Classification Accuracy on Imbalanced Data 2659 Jair Cervantes, Xiaoou Li, and Wen Yu An Anomaly Analysis Method Based on Morphological Features 2665 Xiangzeng Kong, Yaxin Bi, and David H. Glass Learning Multi-level Local Phase Relationship for Single Image Resolution Enhancement 2671 Saibabu Arigela, Vijayan K. Asari, and Maher B. Qumsiyeh 
xliii 


Feature Selection by Iterative Block Addition and Block Deletion 2677 Shigeo Abe SMC: Human-Machine - HM-08 Development of Humanoid Robot Simulator for Gait Learning by Using Particle Swarm Optimization 2683 Ping-Huan Kuo, Ya-Fang Ho, Kai-Fan Lee, Li-Heng Tai, and Tzuu-Hseng S. Li Multi-view Facial Expression Recognition Using Parametric Kernel Eigenspace Method Based on Class Features 2689 Woo-han Yun, Dohyung Kim, Chankyu Park, and Jaehong Kim Automatic Realtime User Performance-Driven Avatar Animation 2694 Stephanie Behrens, Ayoub Al-Hamadi, Eicke Redweik, and Robert Niese Advanced Human Affect Visualization 2700 Isabelle Hupont, Sandra Baldassarri, Eva Cerezo, and Rafael Del-Hoyo Gestic-Based Human Machine Interface for Robot Control 2706 Michael Tornow, Ayoub Al-Hamadi, and Vinzenz Borrmann Human Control of Leader-Based Swarms 2712 Phillip Walker, Saman Amirpour Amraii, Michael Lewis, Nilanjan Chakraborty and Katia Sycara SMC: Systems Science - SYS-15 A Game-Theoretic Social Model for Multiagent Systems 2718 Wynn C. Stirling A Distributed and Automatic Negotiation Protocol for Resource Allocation in the Management of Traffic Accidents 2724 M. Prades Farron, Luis A. Garcia, Vicente R. Tomas, and M. Capdevila Applicability of Bio-inspired and Graph-Theoretic Algorithms for the Design of Complex Fault-Tolerant Graphs 2730 Matthias Becker, Florian Schmidt, and Helena Szczerbicka Analysis of Fuzzy Agents Interactions and Fuzzy Agents Roles within a Collaborative Design Platform 2735 Alain-JÈrÙme FougÈres and Egon Ostrosi Requester vs. Helper-Initiated Protocols for Mutual Assistance in Agent Teamwork 2741 Narek Nalbandyan, Jernej Polajnar, Denish Mumbaiwala, Desanka Polajnar and Omid Alemi 
xliv 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-16 Energetically Optimal Gait Transition Velocities of a Quadruped Robot 2747 Iris Shmue and Raziel Riemer Cluster Synchronization of Predator Prey Robots 2753 Sumona Mukhopadhyay and Henry Leung Matrix Transfer Protocol a Unified Communication Framework for Distributed Modules in Cognitive Robotics 2759 Gerd-J¸rgen Giefing INHA: Localization of Mobile Robots Based on Feature Matching with a Single Camera 2765 Jaehong Lee, Xuenan Cui, Seungjun Lee, Hakil Kim, and Hyoungrae Kim A Tabletop Objects Observation Method from Mobile Robot Using Kinect Sensor 2771 Takuro Egawa, Ippei Samejima, Yuma Nihei, Satoshi Kagami and Hiroshi Mizoguchi Path Planning for Mobile Robots Based on Improved Ant Colony Optimization 2777 Chen-Chien Hsu, Ru-Yu Hou, and Wei-Yen Wang Collaborative Manufacturing and Supply Chains - H15-01 A Review of Complex Systems Technologies for Supply Chain Risk Management 2783 LI Zhengping, Tan Puay Siew, Yee Qi Ming Gabriel, Nguyen Quoc Chinh Ong Yew Soon, and Chen Xianshun A Novel Two-Level Genetic Algorithm for Integrated Process Planning and Scheduling 2790 Liang Wan, Xinyu Li, Liang Gao, Xiaoyu Wen, and Wenwen Wang Application of Interval Theory and Genetic Algorithm for Uncertain Integrated Process Planning and Scheduling 2796 Wenwen Wang, Xinyu Li, Liang Gao, Xiaoyu Wen, and Liang Wan Integrated Iterated Local Search for the Permutation Flowshop Problem with Tardiness Minimization 2802 Tian Chen and Xiaoping Li Shuffled Frog Leaping Algorithm for a Bi-objective No-Idle Permutation Flow Shop 2808 Yamin Wang and Xiaoping Li MapReduce Based Method for Big Data Semantic Clustering 2814 Jie Yang and Xiaoping Li 
xlv 


Learning-Assisted Intelligent Scheduling System 2820 Ana Madureira, Jo„o Paulo Pereira, and Ivo Pereira Iterative Combinatorial Auction for Carrier Collaboration in Logistics Services 2826 Hamidreza Mehrizi and Chun Wang Computational Awareness - H04-01 Induction of High Performance Neural Networks Based on Decision Boundary Making 2831 Yuya Kaneda, Qiangfu Zhao, Yong Liu, and Neil Y. Yen Feature Point Detection in Image Morphing Based Steganography 2837 Qiangfu Zhao, Yutaro Minakawa, Yong Liu, and Neil Y. Yen Computational Awareness in a Tactile-Responsive Humanoid Robot Comedian 2843 Paul Kaefer, Kevin Germino, Dustin Venske, and Andrew B. Williams A Change Detection Method of Arguing Points by Factor Analysis for Case Method Support 2849 Masaki Samejima and Keiichi Hamada Facebook Watchdog: A Research Agenda for Detecting Online Grooming and Bullying Activities 2854 Marlies Rybnicek, Rainer Poisel, and Simon Tjoa Agent-Based Simulation for Investigating Signaling Effects in Markets with Asymmetric Information 2860 Tadahiko Murata and Du Nisuo Explore New Eye Tracking and Gaze Locating Methods 2866 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, Joe Eyles, and Honghai Liu Computational Intelligence for Ubiquitous and Pervasive Computing - C08-01 An Interval Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based System for Customised Knowledge Delivery within Pervasive E-Learning Platforms 2872 Khalid Almohammadi and Hani Hagras A Big Bang-Big Crunch Optimization for a Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based Human Behaviour Recognition System in Intelligent Environments 2880 Bo Yao, Hani Hagras, Daniyal Alghazzawi, and Mohammed J. Alhaddad A Computing with Words Framework for Ambient Intelligence 2887 Aysenur Bilgin, Hani Hagras, Areej Malibari, Daniyal Alghazzawi and J. Mohammed 
xlvi 


Social Feedback in Display Ecosystems 2893 Bernhard Anzengruber, Gabriella Castelli, Alberto Rosi, Alois Ferscha and Franco Zambonelli Improved Semantic-Based Human Interaction Understanding Using Context-Based Knowledge 2899 Kamrad Khoshhal Roudposhti and Jorge Dias A Brief Introduction to Classification for Smart Grid 2905 Chun-Wei Tsai, Alexander Pelov, Ming-Chao Chiang, Chu-Sing Yang and Tzung-Pei Hong Recognizing Human Actions by a Bag of Visual Words 2910 Pasquale Foggia, Gennaro Percannella, Alessia Saggese, and Mario Vento A Novel Two-Layer Hierarchical Differential Evolution Algorithm for Global Optimization 2916 Yinzhi Zhou, Xinyu Li, and Liang Gao Innovations in Intelligent Computation and Applications C15-01 Facial Skin Beautification Using Region-Aware Mask 2922 Lingyu Liang and Lianwen Jin Conversation System Based on Computational Intelligence for Robot Partner Using Smart Phone 2927 Jinseok Woo and Naoyuki Kubota Mining Sequential Purchasing Behaviors from Customer Transaction Databases 2933 Show-Jane Yen, Jia-Yuan Gu, and Yue-Shi Lee Student Engagement Modeling Using Bayesian Networks 2939 Choo-Yee Ting, Wei-Nam Cheah, and Chiung Ching Ho Uniform Cellular Automata Linear Rules for Edge Detection 2945 Selman Uguz, Ugur Sahin, and Ferat Sahin Intelligent Network Computing and Applications - C07-01 Dealing with Unfair Ratings 2951 Xinfeng Ye Network Information Flow Control: Proof of Concept 2957 Alwaleed Alghothami and Florian Kammuller Homogeneity Based Blind Noisy Image Quality Assessment 2963 Xiaotong Huang, Li Chen, Jing Tian, Xiaolong Zhang, and Xiaowei Fu 
xlvii 


Performance Evaluation of Self-Configured Two-Tier Heterogeneous Cellular Networks 2968 Nien-Tsu Chou, Shih-Hao Lin, Shin-Ming Cheng, and Shih-Hao Chang Metasynthesis and Complex Systems - S09-02 A Computational Study for Feature Selection on Customer Credit Evaluation 2973 Jun Huang, Haibo Wang, Wei Wang, and Zhibin Xiong Distribution of Node Characteristics in Transfractal Network Systems and Additive Scale Invariance 2979 Ying Tan, Hong Luo, and Shou-Li Peng The Decision of Price Risk of Portfolio in Inventory Financing 2985 Juan He, Jian Wang, and Xianglin Jiang A Consensus Model for Multiple Attribute Group Decision Making Problems Based on Interval Fuzzy Number 2991 Zhiying LV, Tianmin Huang, Liwei Zheng, and Ying Liang SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-17 Topology Preserving Feature Extraction with Multiswarm Optimization 2997 Thomas A. Runkler and James C. Bezdek Sparse Logistic Discriminant Analysis 3003 Takio Kurita, Kenji Watanabe, and Akinori Hidaka Discriminant Multi-component Face Analysis 3009 Hongli Liu, Weifeng Liu, Liping Dong, and Yanjiang Wang A Hidden Markov Model with Abnormal States for Detecting Stock Price Manipulation 3014 Yi Cao, Yuhua Li, Sonya Coleman, Ammar Belatreche, and T.M. McGinnity Novelty Detection Using Level Set Methods with Adaptive Boundaries 3020 Xuemei Ding, Yuhua Li, Ammar Belatreche, and Liam P. Maguire Automatic Crack Detection and Segmentation Using a Hybrid Algorithm for Road Distress Analysis 3026 Jinshan Tang and Yanliang Gu A Robust Two Signature Descriptor with Orientation Bins and Colour Codes for Enhanced Feature Matching 3031 Saad Ali Imran and Nabil Aouf Structured Sparse Representation Visual Tracking Using Bayes Classifier 3036 Weiguang Li, Yueen Hou, Aiqiong Rong, Sibo Quan, Huidong Lou and Aihua Huang 
xlviii 


SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-18 Some Consequences of the Linear Approximation of the Stochastic Context-Free Calculus 3042 Marco Carpentier On Identifying Authors with Style 3048 Lauren M. Stuart, Saltanat Tazhibayeva, Amy R. Wagoner, and Julia M. Taylor Pairwise Learning to Rank for Search Query Correction 3054 Antonin Novak and Jan Sedivy A Hash Table Approach for Large Scale Perceptual Anchoring 3060 Andreas Persson and Amy Loutfi Clause Anaphora Resolution for Japanese Demonstrative Determiner Based on Semantic Similarity between Different Part-of-Speech 3067 Yukino Ikegami, Ernesto Damiani, Akihiro Urano, and Setsuo Tsuruta Path Model Integration Method for Structural Equation Modeling by OR and Probability Concepts 3073 Rikuto Kunimoto and Ryosuke Saga Recognising User Identity in Twitter Social Networks via Text Mining 3079 Sara Keretna, Ahmad Hossny, and Doug Creighton SMC: Human-Machine - HM-09 Operability Improvement for Myoelectric Prosthetic Hand Using Brain Machine Interface Identification of Eight Forearm Motions Based on Myoelectric Potential 3083 Kana Kuniyasu and Jun Ishikawa Towards the Classification of Single-Trial Event-Related Potentials Using Adapted Wavelets and Particle Swarm Optimization 3089 Alejandro Gonzalez, Isao Nambu, Haruhide Hokari, Masahiro Iwahashi and Yasuhiro Wada Development of a System for Analyzing Common Laceration Generation Mechanisms 3095 Hideyuki Myouse, Tachio Takano, Koji Kitamura, Yoshinori Koizumi Yoshifumi Nishida, and Hiroshi Mizoguchi A Hand Grasped Object Segmentation Method Using Kinect Sensor and Body Dimension Database 3102 Naruyuki Hisatsuka, Ippei Samejima, Satoshi Kagami, Makiko Kouchi and Hiroshi Takemura 
xlvix 


On Modeling Human Learning in Sequential Games with Delayed Reinforcements 3108 Roi Ceren, Prashant Doshi, Matthew Meisel, Adam Goodie, and Dan Hall Analysis of Human Attention toward Context-related Images for Understanding Visual Information Processing 3114 Joo Yun Han, Yu-Bu Lee, and Sukhan Lee Ship Detection and Segmentation Using Image Correlation 3119 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, and Honghai Liu Hand Movement Trajectory Reconstruction from EEG for Brain-Computer Interface Systems 3127 Neethu Robinson, A.P. Vinod, and Cuntai Guan SMC: Systems Science - SYS-17 Model Selection with BIC and ICL Criteria for Binned Data Clustering by Bin-EM-CEM Algorithms 3133 Hani Hamdan and Jingwen Wu Vehicle Detection from UAVs by Using SIFT with Implicit Shape Model 3139 Xiyan Chen and Qinggang Meng Short-Term Anxiety Recognition Induced by Virtual Reality Exposure for Phobic People 3145 Wahida Handouzi, Choubeila Maaoui, Alain Pruski, Abdelhak Moussaoui and Yamina Bendiouis Dataset Shift Detection in Non-stationary Environments Using EWMA Charts 3151 Haider Raza, Girijesh Prasad, and Yuhua Li Intensity Rank Estimation of Facial Expressions Based on a Single Image 3157 Kuang-Yu Chang, Chu-Song Chen, and Yi-Ping Hung Integration of Online Laboratories - LMS via SCORM 3163 Ildefonso Ruano-Ruano, Juan GÛmez-Ortega, Javier G·mez-GarcÌa and Elisabet Estevez-EstÈvez Motor Inverter Fault Diagnosis Using Wavelets Neural Networks 3168 Sheng Qiang and Yingying Li Online Optimal DLQR-DFIG Control System Design via Recursive Least-Square Approach and State Heuristic Dynamic Programming for Approximate Solution of the HJB Equation 3174 Jo„o Viana da Fonseca Neto, Ernesto F.M. Ferreira, and Patricia H. Moraes Rego 
l 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-18 Unsupervised Adaptive Non-intrusive Load Monitoring System 3180 Po-An Chou and Ray-I Chang Learning Customer Behaviour under Real-Time Pricing in the Smart Grid 3186 Fan-Lin Meng, Xiao-Jun Zeng, and Qian Ma Bayesian Model Averaging of Load Demand Forecasts from Neural Network Models 3192 Saima Hassan, Abbas Khosravi, and Jafreezal Jaafar A Energy-Preserving Model for Wireless Sensors Networks Based on Heuristic Self-Organized Routing 3198 Aurelio La Corte, Alessandro Di Stefano, Marialisa Scat·, and Marco Leotta Design and Application of Smart Metering System for Micro Grid 3203 Ringo P.K. Lee, Loi Lei Lai, and Chun Sing Lai Discrete Time Modeling and Control of DC/DC Switching Converter for Solar Energy Systems 3208 S. Kazemlou and S. Mehraeen Variance-Covariance Based Weighing for Neural Network Ensembles 3214 Saima Hassan, Abbas Khosravi, and Jafreezal Jaafar Novel Dynamic Control of Power Systems with Penetration of Renewable Energy Sources in Multi-generator Framework 3220 S. Kazemlou and S. Mehraeen Intelligent Learning in Control Systems - S02-02 A Type-2 Fuzzy Cascade Control Architecture for Mobile Robots 3226 Tufan Kumbasar and Hani Hagras Adaptive Control System Based on Self-Organizing Wavelet Neural Network with H8 Tracking Performance Compensator 3232 Masanao Obayashi, Takuya Kamikariya, Shogo Uchiyama, Shogo Watada Takashi Kuremoto, Shingo Mabu, and Kunikazu Kobayashi Estimators Based on Non-squares Loss Functions to Approximate HJB-Riccati Equation Solution for DLQR Design via HDP 3238 Jonathan A. Queiroz, PatrÌcia H.M. Rego, Jo„o V.F. Neto, Cristiane da Silva Ewaldo Santana, and Allan Kardec Barros 
li 


Issues in EHR Representation, Integration, and Analysis S18-01 An Ontology for Clinical Trial Data Integration 3244 Ratnesh Sahay, Dimitrios Ntalaperas, Eleni Kamateri, Panagiotis Hasapis Oya Deniz Beyan, Marie-Pierre F. Strippoli, Christiana A. Demetriou Thomai Gklarou-Stavropoulou, Matthias Brochhausen Konstantinos Tarabanis, Thanassis Bouras, David Tian, Aristos Aristodimoux Athos Antoniadesx, Christos Georgousopoulos, Manfred Hauswirth and Stefan Decker Advancing Patient Record Safety and EHR Semantic Interoperability 3251 Konstantinos Perakis, Thanasis Bouras, Dimitris Ntalaperas Panagiotis Hasapis, Christos Georgousopoulos, Ratnesh Sahay Oya Deniz Beyan, Cristi Potlog, and Daniela Usurelu A Bayesian Association Rule Mining Algorithm 3258 David Tian, Ann Gledson, Athos Antoniades, Aristo Aristodimou Ntalaperas Dimitrios, Ratnesh Sahay, Jianxin Pan, Stavros Stivaros Goran Nenadic, Xiao-jun Zeng, and John Keane Understanding Low Back Pain Using Fuzzy Association Rule Mining 3265 Maybin K. Muyeba, Sandra Lewis, Liangxiu Han, and John A. Keane Perception: Part B - Perceptual Factors in Graphics - H08-01 Perceptual Quality Metrics for 3D Meshes: Towards an Optimal Multi-attribute Computational Model 3271 Guillaume LavouÈ, Irene Cheng, and Anup Basu Evaluation of 3D Model Segmentation Techniques Based on Animal Anatomy 3277 Nasim Hajari, Irene Cheng, Anup Basu, and Guillaume Lavou Keynote D Cybernetic Intelligent Systems - S19-01 Gender Classification Using One Half Face and Feature Selection Based on Mutual Information 3282 Juan E. Tapia and Claudio A. Perez User Modelling for Interactive Optimization Using Neural Network 3288 Vidya Bhushan Singh, Snehasis Mukhopadhyay, and Meghna Babbar-Sebens Software Programmed by Artificial Agents toward an Autonomous Development Process for Code Generation 3294 Carlos C. Insaurralde 
lii 


Pattern Detection Using a New Haralick Quaternion Color Extraction Model and Support Vector Machine Classifier 3300 Claudio A. Perez, Carlos F. Navarro, Daniel A. Schulz, Jacob A. Saravia and Carlos M. Aravena An Approach to the Synthesis of Humanoid Robot Dance Using Non-interactive Evolutionary Techniques 3305 Malachy Eaton Visual Servoing of a Quadrotor UAV for the Tracking of Linear Structured Infrastructures 3310 O. Araar and N. Aouf Acoustic Detection and Localization Enhanced by Video Analysis 3316 Riad Azzam and Nabil Aouf Human-Centered Transportation Systems - H05-01 Study of Induction and Estimation Method for Driver's Intention by Using a Driving Simulator 3322 Takashi Imamura, Tomonari Ogi, Zhong Zhang, and Tetsuo Miyake A Personalised Online Travel Time Prediction Model 3327 Zhenchen Wang and Stefan Poslad Availability of a Ship Propulsion System under Aging Effects 3333 Nobuo Mitomom, Tadatsugi Okazaki, and Tunc Aldemir Questionnaire Survey for Adapting Common Performance Conditions to Marine Accidents 3339 Kenji Yoshimura, Chihiro Nishizaki, Han Chuanfeng, Han Chuanfeng and Han Chuanfeng Research on the Implementation of Port State Control Based on Broad Sense Concept in the Integrated Management of Foreign Vessel 3344 Junjie Fu and Chi Zhou A Study on Evaluation of Safe Driving Using an In-Vehicle Data Camera 3348 Ryo Ishizaki and Masakazu Morimoto Human-Machine Interface and Haptics - H02-01 Myoelectric Controlled Prosthetic Hand with Continuous Force-Feedback Mechanism 3354 Nanao Akimichi, Kiyoshi Eguchi, and Kenji Suzuki Classifier Transferability in the Detection of Error Related Potentials from Observation to Interaction 3360 Su Kyoung Kim and Elsa Andrea Kirchner 
liii 


Suitability of Two Models of Torque Feedback for Performing a Robot-Assisted Circular Tracing Task 3366 Fernando Trejo and Yaoping Hu Experimental Studies of a Novel 6-DOF Haptic Device 3372 Zhouming Tang and Shahram Payandeh Design and Evaluation of Partial Weight-Bearing Sensor and Haptic Feedback System for Lower-Extremity Orthopedic Patients 3378 Levi DeLuke, Ying \(Jean Richard E. Fan, and John B. Morrell Producing Method of Softness Sensation by Device Vibration 3384 Atsutoshi Ikeda, Takahiro Suzuki, Jun Takamatsu, and Tsukasa Ogasawara Personalising Live Sports Video Zooming 3390 Zhenchen Wang and Stefan Poslad Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-01 Ambulatory Brain-Computer Interface in Outdoor Environment toward Indexing of Lifelog 3396 Hideaki Touyama and Kazuya Maeda On Determination of Ophthalmic Examinations Using Support Vector Machines 3402 Naotake Kamiura, Naoto Yamada, Ayumu Saitoh, Teijiro Isokawa Nobuyuki Matsui, and Hitoshi Tabuchi Evaluation of Autonomy Walk by Dynamic Foot Pressure Analysis 3408 Takahiro Takeda, Yoshitada Sakai, and Yutaka Hata Adaptive Human-Robot Interaction Based on Lag-Lead Modelling for Home-Based Stroke Rehabilitation: Novel Mechanisms for Assessment and Performance Based Adaptation of Task Difficulty 3414 Angelo Basteris and Farshid Amirabdollahian Ultrasonic Frequency Response Analysis for Quantitative Measurements in Bone Marrow Stromal Cells 3420 Naomi Yagi, Kei Kuramoto, Syoji Kobashi, Yutaka Hata, and Tomomoto Ishikawa Mining Clinical Pathway Candidates from Order History Based on the Clustering of Order Sequences 3425 Shoji Hirano and Shusaku Tsumoto 
liv 


Proactive Health Care Systems, Methodologies and Applications - H06-01 Applying Gaming Principles to Virtual Environments for Upper Extremity Therapy Games 3430 Mason E. Nixon and Ayanna M. Howard Development of an Autonomous Facial-Expression Monitoring System for Safe Work Environments 3436 Masakazu Arima, Shotaro Kii, and Kousuke Murata Using Type-2 Fuzzy Models to Detect Fall Incidents and Abnormal Gaits among Elderly 3441 Yo-Ping Huang, Wei-Heng Liu, Szu-Ying Chen, and Frode Eika Sandnes A Computer Supported Memory Aid for Copying Prescription Parameters into Medical Equipment Based on Linguistic Phrases 3447 Frode Eika Sandnes and Yo-Ping Huang Depression Diagnosis Based on Ontologies and Bayesian Networks 3452 Yue-Shan Chang, Wan-Chun Hung, and Tong-Ying Juang Towards ROS Based Multi-robot Architecture for Ambient Assisted Living 3458 Ruijiao Li, Mohammadreza A. Oskoei, and Huosheng Hu SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-19 SCGaz - A Synthetic Formal Context Generator with Density Control for Test and Evaluation of FCA Algorithms 3464 Andrei Rimsa, Mark A.J. Song, and Luis E. Z·rate An Intelligent Tutoring System for Case-Based E-Learning on Project Management 3471 Minami Otsuki and Masaki Samejima A Time-Series-Based Technology Intelligence Framework by Trend Prediction Functionality 3477 Hongshu Chen, Guangquan Zhang, and Jie Lu A Fuzzy Tree Similarity Measure and Its Application in Telecom Product Recommendation 3483 Dianshuang Wu, Guangquan Zhang, and Jie Lu Fuzzy Decision Support System for the Determination of the Set Points of Relevant Variables in the Virgin Olive Oil Elaboration Process 3489 P. Cano Marchal, D. MartÌnez Gila, J. G·mez Garcia, and J. GÛmez Ortega A Hierarchical Human Activity Recognition Framework Based on Automated Reasoning 3495 Shuwei Chen, Jun Liu, Hui Wang, and Juan Carlos Augusto 
lv 


Entity Conceptualization and Understanding Based on Web-Scale Knowledge Bases 3500 Yi Zeng, Hongwei Hao, and Bo Xu SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-20 Sequential Extraction by Using Two Types of Crisp Possibilistic Clustering 3505 Yukihiro Hamasuna and Yasunori Endo Comparative Evaluation of Batch and Online Distance Metric Learning Approaches Based on Margin Maximization 3511 Adri·n PÈrez-Suay, Francesc J. Ferri, Miguel Arevalillo-Herr·ez and Jes˙s V. Albert Gamification of the Optimization Problem and Multi-point Type Optimization Methods 3516 Takashi Okamoto and Eitaro Aiyoshi Quantum Annealing Algorithm for Vehicle Scheduling 3523 Alan Crispin and Alex Syrichas Chaotic Optimization Method without Initial Sampling Parameter Tuning Empirical Comparisons of Two Approaches in Various Problems 3529 Takashi Okamoto and Hironori Hirata Multi-objective Integrated Optimization Using Optimization, Modeling and Simulation 3537 Hirotaka Katayama, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda Combinatorial Optimization Method Based on Hierarchical Structure in Solution Space 3543 Hiroki Ochiai, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda SMC: Human-Machine - HM-10 Sensory Perception through an Electro-tactile Stimulus Array on the Tongue 3549 A. Jeffs and K. Warwick Extension Force Control Considering Contact with an Object Using a Wearable Robot for an Upper Limb 3555 Keishi Yonezawa, Naoto Mizutani, Norihiko Kato, Keníichi Yano, Takaakl Aoki Yasuyukl Kobayashi, and Yutaka Nishimoto Effect of Visual Cues on Line Drawing Performance 3561 Tetsuyou Watanabe Light-Emitting Device for Supporting Auditory Awareness of Hearing-Impaired People during Group Conversations 3567 Yoshihiro Kaneko, Inho Chung, and Kenji Suzuki 
lvi 


Fallen Person Detection for Mobile Robots Using 3D Depth Data 3573 Michael Volkhardt, Friederike Schneemann, and Horst-Michael Gross Muscle Synergy Analysis of Human Standing-Up Motion with Different Chair Heights and Different Motion Speeds 3579 Qi An, Yuki Ishikawa, Junki Nakagawa, Hiroyuki Oka, Hiroshi Yamakawa Atsushi Yamashita, and Hajime Asama Semantic Indoor Navigation with a Blind-User Oriented Augmented Reality 3585 Samleo L. Joseph, Xiaochen Zhang, Ivan Dryanovski, Jizhong Xiao, Chucai Yi and YingLi Tian SMC: Systems Science - SYS-19 Robust Discriminator between Bicycle Rider and Pusher Based on CHLAC of Leg Movement from Video Sequence 3592 Yuki Ishii, Hiroshi Hisahara, Masahito Ota, Takeki Ogitsu, Hiroshi Takemura and Hiroshi Mizoguchi A Train Load Planning Optimization Model for Intermodal Freight Transport Terminals: A Case Study 3597 Mariagrazia Dotolia, Nicola Epicocoa, Marco Falagariob, Domenico Palmaa and Biagio Turchianoa Parking Space Detection Using Textural Descriptors 3603 Paulo Almeida, Luiz S. Oliveira, Eunelson Silva Jr., Alceu Britto Jr and Alessandro Koerich Dynamic Management of Parking Spaces in Road Rest Areas with Automatic Negotiation 3609 M. Capdevila, Vicente R. Tomas, Luis A. Garca, and M. Prades Farron Tracking Multiple Moving Vehicles in Low Frame Rate Videos Based on Trajectory Information 3615 Giyoung Lee, Rammohan Mallipeddi, and Minho Lee Intelligent Traffic Light Control of Isolated Intersections Using Machine Learning Methods 3621 Sahar Araghi, Abbas Khosravi, Michael Johnstone, and Doug Creighton Visibility Enhancement of Single Hazy Images Using Hybrid Dark Channel Prior 3627 Yi-Jui Cheng, Bo-Hao Chen, Shih-Chia Huang, Sy-Yen Kuo, Andrey Kopylov Oleg Seredint, Leonid Mestetskiy, Boris Vishnyakov, Yury Vizilter Oleg Vygolov, Chia-Ruei Lian, and Chi-Ting Wu 
lvii 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-20 Component-Based Modelling for Generating Robotic Arm Applications Running under OROCOS Middleware 3633 A. Sanchez Garcia, E. Estevez, J. Gomez Ortega, and J. Gamez Garcia Predictive Modeling of Time-Varying Environmental Information for Path Planning 3639 Woojin Kim, Hyeonbeom Lee, and H. Jin Kim Kelpie: A ROS-Based Multi-robot Simulator for Water Surface and Aerial Vehicles 3645 Ricardo MendonÁa, Pedro Santana, Francisco Marques, AndrÈ LourenÁo Jo„o Silva, and JosÈ Barata Improved Monte Carlo Localization with Robust Orientation Estimation for Mobile Robots 3651 Chen-Chien Hsu, Chia-Jui Kuo, and Wen-Chung Kao Visual Predictive Control of Robot Manipulators Using a 3D ToF Camera 3657 S. Satorres MartÌnez, J. GÛmez Ortega, J. G·mez GarcÌa, A. S·nchez GarcÌa and J. de la Casa C·rdenas Reducing the Computational Cost of a Monte Carlo Based Planning Algorithm 3663 Hao Wang and Simon J. Julier A Semantic-Similarity-Based Method for Object Description and Clustering 3669 Jing Xu, Shogo Okada, and Katsumi Nitta Driver-Vehicle Systems, Modeling, Dynamics, and Control H01-01 A Subjective Force Perception Model of Humans and Its Application to a Steering Operation System of a Vehicle 3675 Kazuhiro Takemura, Naoki Yamada, Atsuhide Kishi, Kazuo Nishikawa Takahide Nouzawa, Chang Li, Yuichi Kurita, and Toshio Tsuji Driver Behaviour Analysis through Simulation 3681 Andreas Gregoriades, Christos Florides, Vicky Papadopoulou Lesta and Maria Pampaka Biomechanical and Psychophysical Evaluation of Operating Loads in Vehicular Driving 3687 Yoshiyuki Tanaka, Mitsuhiro Narusue, Hiroaki Matsubara, Toshio Tsuji Tomonori Ohtsubo, Hiroshi Okiyama, Matsuhiro Tanaka, and Shunichiro Miyawaki Driver Distraction Assessment Using Driver Modeling 3693 Peter Hermannst‰dter and Bin Yang 
lviii 


Experiment Design for Measuring Driver Reaction Time in Driving Situation 3699 Zhong Zhang, Yuki Asakawa, Takashi Imamura, and Tetsuo Miyake Modeling Driver Steering Control Based on Stochastic Model Predictive Control 3704 Ting Qu, Hong Chen, Yan Ji, Hongyan Guo, and Dongpu Cao Quantitative Driving Style Estimation for Energy-Oriented Applications in Road Vehicles 3710 Andrea Corti, Carlo Ongini, Mara Tanelli, and Sergio M. Savaresi Human-Machine Interface and Haptics - H02-02 Cepstrum Based Unsupervised Spike Classification 3716 Sherif Haggag, Shady Mohamed, Asim Bhatti, Nong Gu, Hailing Zhou and Saeid Nahavandi Fast Volumetric Reconstruction of Human Body through Superquadrics 3721 I. Infantino, F. Vella, G. Martino, and S. Gaglio A User Study with GUIs Tailored for Smartphones and Tablet PCs 3727 David Raneburger, Roman Popp, David Alonso-RÌos, Hermann Kaind and J¸rgen Falb Estimation Method of Clothes Size for Virtual Fitting Room with Kinect Sensor 3733 Reizo Nakamura, Masaki Izutsu, and Shosiro Hatakeyama Assessing Goal-Directed Three-Dimensional Movements in a Virtual Reality Block Design Task 3739 Wooram Jeon, Michael Clamann, David B. Kaber, and Nancy J. Currie Use of Foot for Direct Interactions with Entities of a Virtual Environment Displayed on a Mobile Device 3745 Bob-Antoine J. Menelas and Martin J-D. Otis An Investigation into Thumb Rotation Using High Density Surface Electromyography of Extrinsic Hand Muscles 3751 A. Aranceta-Garza, H. Lakany, and B.A. Conway Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-02 Evaluation of Arterial Stiffness during the Flow-Mediated Dilation Test 3756 Harutoyo Hirano, Daisuke Kiharat, Hiroki Hirano, Yuichi Kurita, Teiji Ukawa Tsuneo Takayanagi, Haruka Morimoto, Ryuji Nakamura, Noboru Saeki Yukihito Higashi, Masashi Kawamoto, Masao Yoshizumi, and Toshio Tsuji An Ultrasonic Imaging for Seminiferous Tubules Beyond the Wavelength Limit 3760 Koki Tsukuda, Tomomoto Ishikawa, and Yutaka Hata 
lvix 


Mobile Patient Monitoring for the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit Work Domain Analysis and Rapid Prototyping Results 3765 Matthias Geˆrges, Catherine M. Burns, Plinio P. Morita, and J. Mark Ansermino Fabrication of Reflectance Pulse Oximeter with Ring-Shaped Photodiode 3771 Masahide Kano, Yota Sato, Kensuke Kanda, Takayuki Fujita Kazusuke Maenaka, Kazuo Kasai, and Kohei Higuchi Toward Personalized Cognitive Training for Elderly with Mild Cognitive Impairment: Cerebral Blood Flow Activation during Verbally-Based Cognitive Activities 3775 Shohei Kato, Hidetoshi Endo, Risako Nagata, Takuto Sakuma and Keita Watanabe Ultra Low Power ASIC for R-R Interval Extraction on Wearable Health Monitoring System 3780 Takayuki Fujita, Tomoya Tanaka, Koji Sonoda, Kensuke Kanda and Kazusuke Maenaka Unsupervised Classification of Cross-Section Area of Spinal Canal 3784 Chao-Cheng Wu, Guan-Sheng Huang, Yi-Ling Chen, Yung-Hsiao Chiang and Jiannher Lin Proactive Health Care Systems, Methodologies and Applications - H06-02 Ejecting Outliers to Enhance Robustness of Fuzzy Cluster Ensemble 3790 Li-Jen Kao and Yo-Ping Huang Mobile Care Robot Localization and Guidance Using Image Structure Map 3796 Chuan-Pin Lu, Ta-Hua Yeh, and Wei Huang Modeling and Performance Analysis of Route-Over and Mesh-Under Routing Schemes in 6LoWPAN 3802 Tsung-Han Lee, Hung-Shiou Chiang, Lin-Huang Chang, Ming-Chun Hsieh Chih-Hao Wen, and Kian Meng Yap An Acceleration Feature-Based Gesture Recognition System 3807 Hung-Chi Chu, Sheng-Chih Huang, and Jiun-Jiam Liaw Energy-Efficient Oriented Routing Algorithm in Wireless Sensor Networks 3813 Lin-Huang Chang, Tsung-Han Lee, Shu-Jan Chen, and Cheng-Yen Liao A Body-Sensed Motor Assessment System for Stroke Upper-Limb Rehabilitation: A Preliminary Study 3819 Chao-Hsien Lee, Yu-Hsien Chiu, Hao-Yun Kao, I-Te Chen, I-Nong Lee Wen-Hsien Ho, Liang-Yu Chen, Pin-Han Huang, Sin-Hao Chen, Chih-Yun Liu and Hsiao-Yan Lu 
lx 


Recognition of the Ambulance Siren Sound in Taiwan by the Longest Common Subsequence 3825 Jiun-Jian Liaw, Wen-Shen Wang, Hung-Chi Chu, Meng-Sian Huang and Chuan-Pin Lu Self-Organization and Emergence in Distributed Manufacturing Systems - S08-01 Self-Organized Holonic Multi-agent Manufacturing System: The Behavioural Perspective 3829 JosÈ Barbosa, Paulo Leit„o, Emmanuel Adam, and Damien Trentesaux Bio-inspired Self-Organising Methodologies for Production Emergence 3835 Jo„o Dias Ferreira, Luis Ribeiro, Mauro Onori, and JosÈ Barata Multiagent Mechatronic Systems with Simulation on the Loop 3842 Luis Ribeiro, JosÈ Barata, Dean Whittingslow, and Roland Krain Control System Software Design Methodology for Automotive Industry 3848 Giovanni Di Orio, JosÈ Barata, Carlos Sousa, and Luis Flores Prospection of Methods to Support Design and Configuration of Self-Organizing Mechatronic Systems 3854 P. Neves, J. Ferreira, M. Onori, L. Ribeiro, and J. Barata An Axiomatic Design Approach to Production Path Enumeration in Reconfigurable Manufacturing Systems 3862 Amro M. Farid SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-21 Human Movement Analysis: Extension of the F-Statistic to Time Series Using HMM 3870 Michelle Karg, Wolfgang Seiber, Jesse Hoey, and Dana Kulic A Framework for Automatic Text Generation of Trends in Physiological Time Series Data 3876 Hadi Banaee, Mobyen Uddin Ahmed, and Amy Loutfi A Preliminary Study of Interaction Effects on Brain Activity during Cooperative Work Using fNIRS 3882 Tomoyuki Hiroyasu, Mao Goto, Utako Yamamoto, and Hisatake Yokouchi Effect of Texture Features in Computer Aided Diagnosis of Pulmonary Nodules in Low-Dose Computed Tomography 3887 Henry Krewer, Benjamin Geiger, Lawrence O. Hall, Dmitry B. Goldgof Yuhua Gu, Melvyn Tockman, and Robert J. Gillies The Cybernetics of Human Cognition and Adult Language Learning 3892 Mir Azmath Ali and Narayana G.P.L. Mandaleeka 
lxi 


Automatic Design of a Novel Image Filter Based on the GA-EM Algorithm for Vein Shapes 3897 Koji Kashihara Spatial Cognition Degree of Development Classification Using Largest Lyapunov Exponents 3903 Guilherme Maron, Dante A.C. Barone, and Elias A. Ramos SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-22 A Stability Analysis Based Parameter Setting Method for Spiral Optimization 3909 Kenichi Tamura and Keiichiro Yasuda Adaptive Parameter Adjustment of Differential Evolution 3915 Ruren Ji, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda An Improvement in Classification Accuracy of Fuzzy Oriented Classifier Evolution 3921 Junji Otsuka and Tomoharu Nagao A New Partitioning Method for the IDS Method 3927 Yoshito Ozaki and Akira Utsumi Shadowed C-Means for Image Segmentation Using Local and Non-local Spatial Information 3933 Jing Zou, Long Chen, and C. L. Philip Chen Type-2 SIC Fuzzy Inference Models 3939 Hirosato Seki SMC: Human-Machine - HM-11 Game Poetry: Promotion of Poetry through a Game-Based Learning System 3944 Hsin-Yi Liang and Sherry Y. Chen Image-Based Rendering for Ink Painting 3950 Lingyu Liang and Lianwen Jin Personalization of Interactive Digital Media in Ubiquitous Educational Environments 3955 Rafael D. Ara˙jo, Taffarel Brant-Ribeiro, Renan G. Cattelan, Sandra A. de Amo and Hiran N.M. Ferreira Vibration-Induced Friction Control for Walkway Locomotion Interface 3961 Guillaume Millet, Martin J.-D. Otis, and Jeremy R. Cooperstock Qualitative Risk of Falling Assessment Based on Gait Abnormalities 3966 David Gagnon, Bob-Antoine J. Menelas, and Martin J.-D. Otis Role Analysis of Dominant and Non-dominant Hand in Daily Life 3972 Hiroshi Kousaka, Hiroshi Mizoguchi, Masahiro Yoshikawa, Hideyuki Tanaka and Yoshio Matsumoto 
lxii 


Classification of Trunk Motion for a Backbone Exoskeleton Using Inertial Data and Surface Electromyography 3978 Abhijit Kadrolkar and Frank Sup SMC: Systems Science - SYS-21 The Effect of Clustering-Based and Degree-Based Weighting on Robustness in Symmetrically Coupled Heterogeneous Interdependent Networks 3984 Yuzhuo Qiu Mixed Poisson Deterioration Model for Bridge Management 3989 Kengo Obama, Kiyoyuki Kaito, and Kiyoshi Kobayashi A System Architecture to Support Cost-Effective Transcription and Translation of Large Video Lecture Repositories 3994 Joan Albert Silvestre-Cerd‡, Alejandro PÈrez, Manuel JimÈnez, Carlos Turr Alfons Juan, and Jorge Civera Estimation of the Reflectance Distribution of Fallen Objects on Highways for Tunnel Lighting Management 4000 So Sakaguchi, Satoshi Hirakawa, Daijiro Mizutani, Kengo Obama and Kiyoyuki Kaito Background Subtraction Using Gaussian Mixture Model Enhanced by Hole Filling Algorithm \(GMMHF 4006 Adi Nurhadiyatna, Wisnu Jatmiko, Benny Hardjono, Ari Wibisono, Ibnu Sina and Petrus Mursanto Using Neuro-fuzzy Models to Benchmark Road Safety Management Systems 4012 Maris Sekar, Mohammad Moshirpour, Julian Serfontein, and Behrouz H. Far Image Based Automatic Road Surface Crack Detection for Achieving Smooth Driving on Deformed Roads 4018 Chinthaka Premachandra, H. Waruna, H. Premachandra and Chandana Dinesh Parape SMC: Systems Science - SYS-22 Coordinating the Collective Behavior of Swarm Robotics Systems Based on Incremental Evolution 4024 Kazuhiro Ohkura, Toshiyuki Yasuda, and Yoshiyuki Matsumura Mathematical Morphology Applied in Object Tracking on Position-Based Visual Servoing 4030 Diego Saqui, Fernando C. Sato, Edilson R.R. Kato, Emerson C. Pedrino and Roberto H. Tsunaki 
lxiii 


GRASPER: A Multisensory Based Manipulation System for Underwater Operations 4036 P.J. Sanz, A. PeÒalver, J. Sales, D. Fornas, J.J. Fern·ndez, J. PÈrez and J. Bernab Autonomous Robot Hitting Task Using Dynamical System Approach 4042 Farid Oubbati, Mathis Richter, and Gregor Schˆner Cross-Spectral Stereo Matching Based on Local Self-Similarities and Image Moments 4048 Tarek Mouats and Nabil Aouf The Representation of Weighted Action-Coupled Semantic Network and Spreading Activation Model for Improvisational Action 4054 Gi Hyun Lim, Il Hong Suh, and LuÌs Seabra Lopes Visual Search of an Object in Cluttered Environments for Robotic Errand Service 4060 Xi Chen and Sukhan Lee Simulation of Hardware Variations in Swarm Robots 4066 Beining Shang, Richard Crowder, and Klaus-Peter Zauner Cloud Computing - C14-01 A Game Theoretic Approach to Service Discovery and Selection 4072 Yi Chen, Bakh Khoussainov, and Xinfeng Ye EucaBomber: Experimental Evaluation of Availability in Eucalyptus Private Clouds 4080 Debora Souza, Rubens Matos, Jean Araujo, Vandi Alves, and Paulo Maciel Availability and Energy Consumption Analysis of Mobile Cloud Environments 4086 Danilo Oliveira, Jean Araujo, Rubens Matos, and Paulo Maciel Elasticity in Service Level Agreements 4092 Frank Schulz Stochastic Model Generation for Cloud Infrastructure Planning 4098 Erica Sousa, Paulo Maciel, Lais Medeiros, Fernando Lins, Eduardo Tavares and Erico Medeiros Private Cloud Cooperation Framework of E-Learning Environment for Disaster Recovery 4104 Satoshi Togawa and Kazuhide Kanenishi Comparative Analysis of Migration-Based Rejuvenation Schedules on Cloud Availability 4110 Matheus Melo, Jean Araujo, Rubens Matos, Julian Menezes, and Paulo Maciel 
lxiv 


Energy-Efficient Virtual Machine Management in Heterogeneous Environment Challenges, Approaches and Opportunities 4116 Mohammad Fozlul Haque Bhuiyan and Chun Wang Driver-Vehicle Systems, Modeling, Dynamics, and Control H01-02 Event-Based Control of Freeway Systems 4122 A. Ferrara S. Sacone and S. Siri Predictive Rollover Index Based on Frontal Road Geometry and On-Line Driver Information 4128 Liang-kuang Chen and Jian-min Huang Analysis of Brain Activity during VR-Based Driving Using Near-Infrared Spectroscopy 4134 Keiichi Watanuki, Kenta Hirayama, and Kazunori Kaede Eye Movement Detection for Assessing Driver Drowsiness by Electrooculography 4142 Parisa Ebrahim, Wolfgang Stolzmann, and Bin Yang A Real-Time Implementation of an MPC-Based Motion Cueing Strategy with Time-Varying Prediction 4149 Alessandro Beghi, Mattia Bruschetta, and Fabio Maran Defining "Critical Speed" in Driver-Vehicle Systems 4155 Craig West and Dongpu Cao Dynamic Trajectory Planning for Vehicle Autonomous Driving 4161 Sumin Zhang, Weiwen Deng, Qingrong Zhao, Hao Sun, and Bakhtiar Litkouhi Enhancing the Energy Efficiency of Fully Electric Vehicles via the Minimization of Motor Power Losses 4167 A. Pennycott, L. De Novellis, P. Gruber, A. Sorniotti, and T. Goggia Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-03 A Pattern Recognition Method for Automating Tactile Graphics Translation from Hand-Drawn Maps 4173 Jianjun Chen and Noboru Takagi Pupil Diameter Variation in Positive and Negative Emotions with Visual Stimulus 4179 Shuhei Kawai, Hironobu Takano, and Kiyomi Nakamura Haptics for Multi-fingered Palpation 4184 Min Li, Shan Luo, Lakmal D. Seneviratne, Thrish Nanayakkara Kaspar Althoefer, and Prokar Dasgupta 
lxv 


Evaluating Manual Palpation Trajectory Patterns in Tele-manipulation for Soft Tissue Examination 4190 Jelizaveta Konstantinova, Min Li, Vahid Aminzadeh, Kaspar Althoefer Thrishantha, and Prokar Dasgupta Human Tracking and Estimation under Occlusion Using Laser Range Scanner and Accelerometer 4196 Shogo Shibutani, Hiroki Tamura, and Koichi Tanno Accuracy of Voice Pitch Control in Singing Using Tactile Voice Pitch Feedback Display 4201 Masatsugu Sakajiri, Shigeki Miyoshi, Kenryu Nakamura, Satoshi Fukushima and Tohru Ifukube Fundamental Study on Tactile Cognition through Haptic Feedback Touchscreen 4207 Junji Onishi, Masatsugu Sakajiri, Takahiro Miurat, and Tsukasa Ono Motion Estimation Based on EMG and EEG Signals to Control Wearable Robots 4213 Kazuo Kiguchi and Yoshiaki Hayashi Perception: Part A - Perception and Its Applications - H07-01 New Perception of Fluffy Surfaces 4219 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, and Honghai Liu Development of Gazing Interface for Operation of a Page Turner Machine 4225 Nobuaki Nakazawa, Ilhwan Kim, Hiroki Murakawa, and Toshikazu Matsui Mitigating Biases in Time-to-Contact Judgments with Cockpit Displays of Traffic Information 4231 Carl Pankok and David B. Kaber Segmentation of Natural Scenes Based on Visual Attention and Gestalt Grouping Laws 4237 R.G. Mesquita and C.A.B. Mello Finding Text in Natural Scenes by Visual Attention 4243 R.G. Mesquita and C.A.B. Mello Tracked Object Association in Multi-camera Surveillance Network 4248 Xiaochen Dai and Shahram Payandeh Pedestrian Guidance and Sensory Fusion Using Peripheral-Vision-Stimulus and Vibratory Stimulus 4254 Norifumi Watanabe, Fumihiko Mori, and Takashi Omori 
lxvi 


SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-23 A Novel Approach for Binarization of Overlay Text 4259 Zhike Zhang and Weiqiang Wang Texture Analysis for the Segmentation of Optic Disc in Retinal Images 4265 Suraya Mohammad, D.T. Morris, and Neil Thacker A Faster Method for Chinese Font Recognition Based on Harris Corner 4271 Shuye Zhang, Lianwen Jin, Dapeng Tao, and Zhao Yang HaarHOG: Improving the HOG Descriptor for Image Classification 4276 Sugata Banerji, Atreyee Sinha, and Chengjun Liu Automatic Detection of Laughter and Fillers in Spontaneous Mobile Phone Conversations 4282 Hugues Salamin, Anna Polychroniou, and Alessandro Vinciarelli Visual Tracking Based on Compressive Sensing MCMC Sampling 4288 Lan Wang, Pingyang Dai, Yanlong Luo, Cuihua Li, and Yi Xie Modelling-Based Feature Selection for Classification of Forest Structure Using Very High Resolution Multispectral Imagery 4294 Benoit Beguet, Samia Boukir, Dominique Guyon, and Nesrine Chehata A New Method for Online Retinal Optic-Disc Detection Based on Cascade Classifiers 4300 Claudio A. Perez, Daniel A. Schulz, Carlos M. Aravena, Claudio I. Perez and T. Juan Verdaguer SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-24 Boundary Detection Based on Chromatic Color Difference and Morphological Texture Suppression 4305 D.C. Costa, C.A.B. Mello, and T.J. dos Santos Fuzzy Consistency Measure with Particle Swarm Optimization for Feature Selection 4311 Basabi Chakraborty and Goutam Chakraborty Pareto-Front Analysis and AdaBoost for Person Detection Using Heterogeneous Features 4316 A. A. Mekonnen, F. Lerasle, and A. Herbulot Pedestrian Detection under Progressive Occlusion 4322 Silvio G.O. Santos, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti, Tsang Ing Jyh and Jan Sijbers Type-2 Fuzzy GMM-UBM for Text-Independent Speaker Verification 4328 Hector N.B. Pinheiro, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti, Tsang Ing Jyh and Jan Sijbers 
lxvii 


A Combined Features Approach for Speaker Segmentation Using BIC and Artificial Neural Networks 4332 Leonardo Valeriano Neri, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti Tsang Ing Jyh, and Jan Sijbers Bird Species Classification Based on Color Features 4336 AndrÈia Marini, Jacques Facon, and Alessandro L. Koerich Regression Based Learning of Human Actions from Video Using HOF-LBP Flow Patterns 4342 Binu M. Nair and Vijayan K. Asari SMC: Human-Machine - HM-12 Finding People in Apartments with a Mobile Robot 4348 Michael Volkhardt and Horst-Michael Gross People Tracking on a Mobile Companion Robot 4354 Michael Volkhardt, Christoph Weinrich, and Horst-Michael Gross Applying Behavioral Strategies for Student Engagement Using a Robotic Educational Agent 4360 LaVonda Brown, Ryan Kerwin, and Ayanna M. Howard High Resolution Binocular Video See-Through Display for Interactive Work Support - Development of System and Evaluation of Depth Perception and Peg-in-Hole Tasks 4366 Kazuyo Iwamoto and Jun Ishikawa Assessment of the Wiimote as a Tangible User Interface for Interactive Virtual Environments 4372 Jacopo Aleotti, Stefano Caselli, and Vincenzo Micelli Improving the Localization Accuracy of Virtual Sound Source through Reinforcement Learning 4378 Manabu Washizu, Shuhei Morioka, Isao Nambu, Shohei Yano Haruhide Hokari, and Yasuhiro Wada Appearance-Based 3D Upper-Body Pose Estimation and Person Re-identification on Mobile Robots 4384 Christoph Weinrich, Michael Volkhardt, and Horst-Michael Gross Learning Behaviors from Human Teachers by Generalizing Task-Relevant Features 4391 Huan Tan and Qu Zhang 
lxviii 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-23 3D Face Recognition: Feature Extraction Based on Directional Signatures from Range Data and Disparity Maps 4397 Soodamani Ramalingam Multi Image Encryption and Steganography Based on Synchronization of Chaotic Lasers 4403 Sumona Mukhopadhyay and Henry Leung Design and Analysis of the Gateway-Level Topology Map in Topology-Aware ALM Systems 4409 Jianqun Cui, Naixue Xiong, Libing Wu, Keming Jia, and Kuan Gao Organizational Responsibility Model: Dealing with Demand for Services Higher Than Installed Capacity 4415 Guttenberg Ferreira Passos, Ilan Chamovitz, and Babis Theodoulidis A Situated Approach to Systems Based Modeling of Services 4421 Anshuman Saxena and Alain Wegmann Systems Oriented Approach to Production Support - A Viable Framework 4427 Veerendra K. Rai 3D Face Synthesis with KINECT 4433 Soodamani Ramalingam and Nguyen Trong Viet Increase Energy Efficiency of Data Center Cooling Facilities with Airflow Optimization 4439 Jochen Buchholz, Yosandra Sandoval, and Eugen Volk SMC: Systems Science - SYS-24 A Robust Anomaly Detection in Pantograph-Catenary System Based on Mean-Shift Tracking and Foreground Detection 4444 Ilhan Aydin, Mehmet Karakˆse, and Erhan Akin Distributed Algorithm for Connected Dominating Set Construction in Sensor Networks 4450 Najla Al-Nabhan, Mznah Al-Rodhaan, Abdullah Al-Dhelaan, and Xiuzhen Cheng A Smart Surface Simulation Environment 4456 David R.W. Barr, Declan Walsh, and Piotr Dudek Developing an Agent Model of a Missing Person in the Wilderness 4462 W. Mohibullah and Simon J. Julie Multi-robot Cooperation Based on Continuous Reinforcement Learning with Two State Space Representations 4470 Toshiyuki Yasuda, Kazuhiro Ohkura, and Kazuaki Yamada 
lxix 


Hierarchical Navigation Architecture and Robotic Arm Controller for a Sample Return Rover 4476 Velin Dimitrov, Mathew DeDonato, Adam Panzica, Samir Zutshi, Mitchell Wills and Taskin Padir Modular Robot Arm Design for Physical Human-Robot Interaction 4482 Ty Tremblay and Taskin Padir Kinematic Control of a Planetary Exploration Rover over Rough Terrain 4488 Thomas J. Carlone, Jon J. Anderson, Joseph L. Amato, Velin D. Dimitrov and Taskin Padir SMC: Systems Science - SYS-25 Thesaurus Performance with Information Retrieval: Schema Matching as a Case Study 4494 Thabit Sabbah and Ali Selamat A Novel Method for the Development of an Idealised Active Roll Stabilisation System Model 4499 Ingo Scharfenbaum, Alessio Fratini, and Gunther Prokop Conceptual Modeling Semantics for the Physical-Informatical Essence Duality Problem 4505 Yaniv Mordecai, Craig Chapman, and Dov Dori Research on the Application of Multi-model Predictive Control in Coordinated Control of 1,000 MW Ultra-supercritical Unit 4511 Xi Zhang, Shihe Chen, Weiwu Yan, and Guoliang Wang Control of Polystyrene Batch Reactor Using Fuzzy Logic Controller 4516 Mohammad Anwar Hosen, Abbas Khosravi, Saeid Nahavandi and Douglas Creighton Backstepping Control on SE\(3 Tracking 4522 Hyeonbeom Lee, Suseong Kim, Tyler Ryan, and H. Jin Kim An Agent-Based Simulation to Quantify and Analyze Bullwhip Effects in Supply Chains 4528 Nguyen Quoc Chinh, Li Zhengping, Tan Puay Siew, Chen Xianshun and Ong Yew Soon 
lxx 


Advances in Medical Informatics - C18-01 A Texture Feature Ranking Model for Predicting Survival Time of Brain Tumor Patients 4533 Mu Zhou, Lawrence O. Hall, Dmitry B. Goldgof, Robert A. Gatenby and Robert J. Gillies Diagnosis of Lymphatic Diseases Using a Naive Bayes Style Possibilistic Classifier 4539 Karim Baati, Tarek M. Hamdani, and Adel M. Alimi Revisiting Link-Based Cluster Ensembles for Microarray Data Classification 4543 Natthakan Iam-On and Tossapon Boongoen Automated Driving and Safety Systems - H09-01 Towards Evaluation of Post Impact Braking Function in Driving Simulator 4549 Faouzi Al Mouatamid, Artem Kusachov, Bengt Jacobson, and Derong Yang Using a Mediator to Handle Undesired Feature Interaction of Automated Driving 4555 Dominik Ertl, Sven Dominka, and Hermann Kaindl Lateral Control of Vehicle Platoons 4561 Stefan Solyom, Arash Idelchi, and Badr Bin Salamah Environmental Information Systems - S12-01 A Survey on Environmental Open Data in Austria 4566 Peter Wetz, Amin Anjomshoaa, and A. Min Tjoa An Intelligent Lighting System with a Seat Management Mechanism 4571 Mitsunori Miki, Hisanori Ikegami, Ryoga Okunishi, Kazuki Matsutani and Shohei Fujimoto Combination of Preferred Illuminance and Preferred Color Temperature for Work 4577 Mitsunori Miki, Hisanori Ikegam, Yo Motoya, and Shohei Fujimoto Maximization of the Average Color Rendering Index of Color Temperature and Illuminance Constraints 4583 Mitsunori Miki, Shohei Fujimoto, Yo Motoya, and Ryoga Okunishi Ontology-Based Integration of Heterogeneous Material Data Resources in Product Lifecycle Management 4589 Touba Rahmani, SÈbastien Bougain, and Detlef Gerhard 
lxxi 


Human-Centered Transportation Systems - H05-02 The Effect of Motion-Induced Factor on the Operator Performance during Ship's Watch 4595 Tunglam Ngodang, Koji Murai, Yuji Hayashi, Nobuo Mitomo, Kenji Yoshimura and Kenjiro Hikida Evaluation of Pilot Mental Workload for Simulator Based Training Using Heart Rate Variability 4601 Masahiro Tanaka, Koji Murai, and Yuji Hayashi Trial Study of Traffic Safety Education for High School Students Using Driving Simulator 4606 Takashi Imamura, Tomonari Ogi, Elvin Tiong Chew Lun, Zhong Zhang and Tetsuo Miyake Emotion and Gesture Recognition with Soft Computing Tool for Drivers Assistance System in Human Centered Transportation 4612 Urvashi Agrawal, Shubhangi Giripunje, and Preeti Bajaj Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-04 Use of Simulated Inertia to Improve the Performance of a BEP Human-Computer Interface 4617 Noel Segura Meraz and Yasuhisa Hasegawa Multi-human Locating in Real Environment by Thermal Sensor 4623 Masato Kuki, Hiroshi Nakajima, Naoki Tsuchiya, and Yutaka Hata On a Learning-Science System Supporting Visually Impaired Students via the Haptic Device 4629 Takashi Suzuki, Tomoyuki Araki, Katsuhiro Kawai Yasuyuki Murai and Hisayuki Tatsumi Metaheuristic Algorithms for Data Mining - C16-01 DECoDe - Differential Evolution Algorithm for Community Detection 4635 Thiago P. Leal, Amanda C.A. GonÁalves, VinÌcius da F. Vieira and Carolina R. Xavier The Effect of Features Using Feature Selection for Bayesian Classifier 4641 L. Moore and C. Kambhampati A Hybrid Approach for Mining Frequent Itemsets 4647 Bay Vo, Frans Coenen, Tuong Le, and Tzung-Pei Hong An IT2FLS-Based Malware Analysis Mechanism: Malware Analysis Network in Taiwan \(MiT 4652 Hsien-De Huang, Chang-Shing Lee Mei-Hui Wang, and Hung-Yu Kao 
lxxii 


SMC: Human-Machine - HM-13 User-Friendly Free-Text Keystroke Dynamics Authentication for Practical Applications 4658 Arwa Alsultan and Kevin Warwick A Study on Body Part Motion Caused by Improper Crutch Walk 4664 Naoaki Tsuda, Kota Tominaga, Yoshihiko Nomura, and Norihiko Kato Simulation Interface for Gesture-Based Remote Control of a Surgical Lighting Arm 4670 Jean-FranÁois Collumeau, Elyse Nespoulous, HÈlËne Laurent, and Benoit Magnain Topic and Opinion Classification Based Information Credibility Analysis on Twitter 4676 Yukino Ikegami, Kenta Kawai, Yoshimi Namihira, and Setsuo Tsuruta Human Interactions for Self-Adaptive Virtual Product Prototype 4682 L·szlÛ Horv·th and Imre J. Rudas Towards a Rule-Based Bidding Language: Promoting the Free Expression of Rational Conduct for Ecosystem Friendly E-Markets 4688 Wafa Ghonaim, Hamada Ghenniwa, and Weiming Shen SMC: Systems Science - SYS-26 A Dwi-Phase Fuzzy Control Structure for an Auto-mode Stair Climbing Wheelchair 4694 N.M.A Ghani and M.O. Tokhi SOS-Based Fuzzy Control of a Wheeled Mobile Robot with Decay Rate 4700 Gwo-Ruey Yum and Wei-Yi Wang Model-less versus Model-Based Controllers for Diabetes 4706 Ahmed Y. Ben Sasi and Mahmud A. Elmalki Guaranteed Cost Control Design Based on Takagi-Sugeno Fuzzy Systems with Nonlinear Subsystems 4712 Shunsuke Ochiai, Jun Yoneyama, and Yuzu Uchida Center of Mass Estimation for Rehabilitation in a Multi-contact Environment: A Simulation Study 4718 Alejandro Gonz·lez, Mitsuhiro Hayashibe, Emel Demircan, and Philippe Fraisse A Simple Phenomenological Modeling of McKibben Pneumatic Actuator and Its Application to Control 4724 Fumitake Fujii, Hiroyoshi Murata, Yuta Hirose, and Takuya Okada State Space Realization of Wood Drying Process: Modeling, Simulation and Evaluation in Reality 4731 Saleh S. Delshad and Thomas Gustafsson 
lxxiii 


Energy Saving and System Performance - An Art of Trade-Off for Controller Design 4737 Kang Li, Yongling Wu, Shaoyuan Li, and Yugeng Xi SMC: Systems Science - Flexible Production Management SYS-27 Multi-agent System Approach for the Strategic Planning in Ramp-Up Production of Small Lots 4743 Paulo Leit„o, JosÈ Barbosa, Pavel Vrba, Petr Skobelev, Alexander Tsarev and Daria Kazanskaia A Conceptual Architecture Based on Intelligent Services for Manufacturing Support Systems 4749 CÈsar A. MarÌn, Lars Mˆnch, Paulo Leit„o, Pavel Vrba, Daria Kazanskaia Vadim Chepegin, Liwei Liu, and Nikolay Mehandjiev Knowledge-Driven Adaptive Production Management Based on Real-Time User Feedback and Ontology Updates 4755 Daria Kazanskaia, Sergey Kozhevnikov, Vladimir Larukhin, Petr Skobelev Alexander Tsarev, and Yaroslav Shepilov Evaluation of an Ecosystem-Based Architecture for Adaptation to Cascades of Changes 4760 CÈsar A. MarÌn Systems Safety and Security - S20-01 Critical Infrastructures Governance Exploring SCADA Cybernetics through Architectured Policy Semantic 4766 Djamel Khadraoui and Christophe Feltus DNSsec in Isabelle - Replay Attack and Origin Authentication 4772 Florian Kamm¸ller, Yoney Kirsal-Ever, and Xiaochun Cheng On the Design of a System for Airport Protection against Terrorist Attacks Using MANPADs 4778 Ionescu Octavian and Pricop Emil Security Threats against the Communication Networks for Traffic Control Systems 4783 Huipu Fan, Yizhou Dong, Ming Yu, and Leonard Tung Chance-Constrained Programming Method by Constraints Aggregation for Social Consensus Making on IT Risk Countermeasure 4789 Katsunori Sato, Masaki Samejima, and Ryoichi Sasaki Performability Evaluation of Emergency System 4794 Marcus Queiroz, Paulo Maciel, Bruno Silva, and Almir P. Guimar„es 
lxxiv 


A Novel Automatic Load Shedding Scheme to Improve Survivability of Distribution Networks 4800 Hao-Tian Zhang, Loi Lei Lai, and Jiebei Zhu Future ICT-Enabled Manufacturing Execution - H12-01 An Exploratory Study into Automated Real-Time Categorisation of Engineering E-Mail 4806 James A. Gopsill, Stephen J. Payne, and Ben J. Hicks Automated Sound Signalling Device Quality Assurance Tool for Embedded Industrial Control Applications 4812 Tomasz Maniak, Rahat Iqbal, Faiyaz Doctor, and Chrisina Jayne Highly Flexible Self-Reconfigurable Systems for Rapid Layout Formation to Offer Manufacturing Services 4819 Victor M. Cedeno-Campos, Paul A. Trodden, Tony J. Dodd, and Jim Heley Physiologically Inspired Systems - S24-01 Human-Inspired Anticipative Postural Control Architecture for Humanoid Robots 4825 S. Martinez, A. JardÛn, and C. Balaguer Artificial Homeostasis for Engineering Systems: Involuntary Reflexes in Physiologically-Inspired Control Applications 4831 Carlos C. Insaurralde Learning from Big Data and Uncertainty - C06-01 Sample Selection Based on K-L Divergence for Effectively Training SVM 4837 Junhai Zhai and Chang Li A Reduction Algorithm for the Big Data in 3D Surface Reconstruction 4843 Jianwei Zhao, Yanqing Fu, Yuanpeng Tan, and Feilong Cao The Nested Structure in Fuzzy Rough Classifier 4848 Zhao Suyun, Chen Hong, Li Cuiping, and Chen Yu Medical Informatics - C17-01 Variation of Dynamic Muscle Model during Fatigue-Inducing Voluntary Contraction 4854 Youngjin Na, Suncheol Kwon, Jung Kim, and Changmok Choi Mining Clinical Pathway Using Clustering and Rule Induction 4860 Shusaku Tsumoto, Shoji Hirano, and Haruko Iwata 
lxxv 


Self-Organization and Emergence in Distributed Manufacturing Systems - S08-02 Characterization of Costs and Strategies for Automation in Evolvable Production Systems 4866 Antonio Maffei, Hakan Akillioglu, and Luis Flores Reliable Self-Learning Production Systems Based on Context Aware Services 4872 Sebastian Scholze, Dragan Stokic, Oliver Kotte, Jose Barata, Giovani Di Orio and Goncalo Candido Energy Efficiency in Machine Tools - A Self-Learning Approach 4878 Giovanni Di Orio, GoncÁlo C‚ndido, JosÈ Barata, JosÈ Luiz Bittencourt and Ralf Bonefeld Personalised Fuzzy Recommendation for High Involvement Products 4884 Vassilis C. Gerogiannis, Anthony Karageorgos, Liwei Liu, and Christos Tjortjis SMC: Systems Science - SYS-28 Semi-Gaku \(Semistry 4891 Toshinori Watanabe From Sense to Print: Towards Automatic 3D Printing from 3D Sensing Devices 4897 Nadia Figueroa, Haiwei Dong, and Abdulmotaleb El Saddik Computationally Tractable Approaches to Modeling the Coverage of Weather Sensor Networks 4905 Ziho Kang and Ellen J. Bass Information-Theoretic Characterization of Uncertainty in Manual Control 4913 Dari Trendafilov and Roderick Murray-Smith Healthcare and Enterprise Systems - S03-01 Mitigating Collisions in Saturated Wireless Network with Receiver Token Ring 4919 Liuxiao Zheng, Kewang Zhang, and Deyun Zhang Design of BCI Based Multi-information System to Restore Hand Motor Function for Stroke Patients 4924 Lin Gao, Jue Wang, Jin Li, and Yang Zheng SMC: Systems Science - SYS-29 A Small-Scale Traffic Monitoring System in Urban Wireless Sensor Networks 4929 Jin Zhou, C. L. Philip Chen, and Long Chen Decentralized Control for Second-Order Uncertain Nonlinear Multi-agent Systems Consensus Problem Based on Fuzzy Adaptive High-Gain Observer 4935 Changíe Ren and C.L. Philip Chen 
lxxvi 


Adaptive NN Consensus Control for a Class of Nonlinear Multi-agent Time-Delay Systems 4941 Guo-Xing Wen and C.L. Philip Chen Author Index 4947 
lxxvii 


Ridha, Ben Abdennour National School of Engineers of Gabes  FrB13 Olympic PID Control Lecture Session Chair: Hernandez-Guzman, Victor M Univ. Autonoma De Queretaro Co-Chair: Gambier, Adrian Univ. of Heidelberg 13:40-14:00 FrB13.1 MPC and PID Control Based on Multi-Objective Optimization pp. 4727-4732 Gambier, Adrian Univ. of Heidelberg 14:00-14:20 FrB13.2 Optimal PID Controller Design Using Standard Optimal Control Techniques pp. 4733-4738 O'Brien, Richard United States Naval Acad Howe III, Jamie United States Naval Acad 14:20-14:40 FrB13.3 P Quasi-I D Control for MIMO Systems_; ---Stabilization Based on High Gain Output Feedback pp. 4739-4745 Shimizu, Kiyotaka Keio Univ Tamura, Kenichi Keio Univ 14:40-15:00 FrB13.4 Robust Stabilization and PID Control for Nonlinear Discretized Systems on a Grid Pattern pp. 4746-4751 Okuyama, Yoshifumi Humanitech Lab 15:00-15:20 FrB13.5 Synthesis of PID Controller with Guaranteed Stability Margin for a Class of Unstable MIMO Systems pp. 4752-4754 Chang, Tsu-Shuan Univ. of California, Davis 15:20-15:40 FrB13.6 Modified Relay Feedback Test and Its Use for Non-Parametric Loop Tuning pp. 4755-4760 Boiko, Igor IMB Controls  FrB14 Adams Adaptive Control II Lecture Session Chair: Niemann, Henrik Tech. Univ. of Denmark Co-Chair: Bernstein, Dennis S Univ. of Michigan 13:40-14:00 FrB14.1 Adaptive Output-Feedback Control of MIMO Plants with Unknown, Time-Varying State Delay pp. 4761-4766 Mirkin, Boris Tech. -- Israel Inst. of Tech Gutman, Per-Olof Tech. Inst. of Tech Falcone, Paolo Chalmers Univ. of Tech 14:00-14:20 FrB14.2 Markov-Parameter-Based Adaptive Control of 3-Axis Angular Velocity in a Six-Degree-Of-Freedom Stewart Platform pp. 4767-4772 Pence, Benjamin Univ. of Michigan Santillo, Mario Univ. of Michigan Bernstein, Dennis S Univ. of Michigan 14:20-14:40 FrB14.3 Discrete Time Lyapunov Stable Staggered Estimator MIMO Adaptive Interference Cancelation with Experimental Verification pp 4773-4778 Arif, Jawad Inst. of Avionics and Aeronautical Engineering Akhtar, Suhail Inst. of Avionics and Aeronautical Engineering 14:40-15:00 FrB14.4 Control System Design for Retinal Imaging Adaptive Optics Systems pp. 4779-4784 Ficocelli, Maurizio Univ. of Toronto Ben Amara, Foued Univ. of Toronto 15:00-15:20 FrB14.5 Adaptive Controller Design and Disturbance Attenuation for Sequentially Interconnected SISO Linear Systems under Noisy Output Measurements with Partly Measured Disturbances pp. 4785-4790 Zeng, Sheng Hewlett-Packard Company Fernandez, Emmanuel Univ. of Cincinnati 15:20-15:40 FrB14.6 Homography-Based Visual Servo Control Via an Uncalibrated Camera pp. 4791-4796 Hu, Guoqiang Univ. of Florida Mackunis, William Univ. of Florida Gans, Nicholas Univ. of Florida Dixon, Warren E Univ. of Florida  


FrB15 Blakeley Uncertain Systems I Lecture Session Chair: Huang, Jie Chinese Univ. of Hong Kong Co-Chair: Haggblom, Kurt E Abo Akademi Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB15.1 Improved Robust Du-Stability Measures Via S-Procedure pp. 4797-4802 Sari, Bilal Univ. of Poitiers Bachelier, Olivier Univ. of Poitiers Mehdi, Driss ESIP-LAII Al Chaer, Toufic Univ. of Poitiers 14:00-14:20 FrB15.2 Robust H_inf SMC of Uncertain Switched Systems with Time Delay pp. 4803-4808 Lian, Jie Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB15.3 Two Algorithms for Model Quality Estimation in State-Space Systems with Time-Varying Parameter Uncertainty pp. 4809-4814 Salehpour, Soheil Lule Univ. of Tech Johansson, Andreas Lulea Univ. of Tech 14:40-15:00 FrB15.4 Robust H_{infty} Control for a Class of Uncertain Neutral Time-Delay Systems Via Dynamic Output Feedback pp. 4815-4820 Sun, Man Beihang Univ Jia, Yingmin Beihang Univ Du, Junping Beijing Univ. of Posts and Telecommunications Yuan, Shiying Henan Pol. Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB15.5 The Servomechanism Problem for Unknown MIMO LTI Positive Systems: Feedforward and Robust Tuning Regulators pp. 4821-4826 Roszak, Bartek Univ. of Toronto Davison, Edward J Univ. of Toronto 15:20-15:40 FrB15.6 Parameter Convergence with an Adaptive Output Regulation Problem pp. 4827-4832 Liu, Lu Chinese Univ. of HongKong Chen, Zhiyong The Univ. of Newcastle Huang, Jie Chinese Univ. of Hong Kong  FrB16 Cascade I \(C Spacecraft Control I Lecture Session Chair: Krishnakumar, Kalmanje NASA Ames Res. Center Co-Chair: Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB16.1 Space Station Zero-Propellant Maneuver Guidance Trajectories Compared to Eigenaxis pp. 4833-4838 Bedrossian, Nazareth Charles Stark Draper Lab Bhatt, Sagar The Charles Stark Draper Lab. Inc 14:00-14:20 FrB16.2 Attitude Tracking with Adaptive Rejection of Rate Gyro Disturbances pp. 4839-4844 Pisu, Pierluigi Clemson Univ Serrani, Andrea The Ohio State Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB16.3 Stabilization of the Angular Velocity of a Rigid Body System Using Two Torques: Energy Matching Condition pp. 4845-4849 Aguilar-Ibanez, Carlos Centro De Investigacion En Computacion Suarez-Castanon, Miguel Santiago Inst. Pol. Nacional Guzman-Aguilar, Florencio ESCOM-IPN 14:40-15:00 FrB16.4 Satellite Attitude Control Using Three Reaction Wheels pp. 4850-4855 Nudehi, Shahin MIchigan State Farooq, Umar Michigan State Univ Alasty, Aria Sharif Univ. of Tech Issa, Jimmy Michigan State Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB16.5 Satellite Attitude Control Using Statistical Game Theory pp. 4856-4861 Lee, Jong-Ha Temple Univ Diersing, Ronald Univ. of Southern Indiana Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 15:20-15:40 FrB16.6 Uniform Practical Output-Feedback Stabilization of Spacecraft Relative Rotation pp. 4862-4867 


Kristiansen, Raymond Narvik Univ. Coll Loria, Antonio CNRS Chaillet, Antoine Univ. Paris Sud Nicklasson, Per Johan Narvik Univ. Coll  FrB17 Whidbey Fuzzy Systems Lecture Session Chair: Lin, Jonqlan Ching Yun Univ Co-Chair: Langari, Reza Texas A&M Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB17.1 A Fuzzy-Based Reconstruction Algorithm for Estimating Metal Fill Profile in Lost Foam Casting pp. 4868-4874 Deabes, Wael Tennessee Tech. Univ Abdelrahman, Mohamed A Tennessee Tech. Univ Rajan, P. K Tennessee Tech. Univ 14:00-14:20 FrB17.2 An SOS-Based Stable Control of Polynomial Discrete Fuzzy Systems pp. 4875-4880 Tanaka, Kazuo Univ. of Electro-Communications Ohtake, Hiroshi Univ. of Electro-communications Wang, Hua O Boston Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB17.3 Fuzzy Model-Based Servo Control for Discrete-Time Nonlinear Systems pp. 4881-4886 Ohtake, Hiroshi Univ. of Electro-communications Tanaka, Kazuo Univ. of Electro-Communications Wang, Hua O Boston Univ 14:40-15:00 FrB17.4 Nonquadratic Lyapunov Function Based Control Law Design for Discrete Fuzzy Systems with State and Input Delays pp. 4887-4892 Sun, Yuming Jiangnan Univ Shen, Yanxia Southern Yangtze Univ Ji, Zhicheng Southern Yangtze Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB17.5 Designing a Hierarchical Fuzzy Controller for Backing-Up a Four Wheel Autonomous Robot pp. 4893-4897 Shahmaleki, Pourya Shiraz Univ Mahzoon, Mojtaba Shiraz Univ 15:20-15:40 FrB17.6 Adaptive Fuzzy Control of Unknown Nonlinear Systems with Actuator Failures for Robust Output Tracking pp. 4898-4903 Li, Ping Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ  FrB18 Vashon I Delay Systems I Lecture Session Chair: Rodrigues, Luis Concordia Univ Co-Chair: Sipahi, Rifat Northeastern Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB18.1 Recursive Predictor Design for Linear Systems with Time Delay pp. 4904-4909 Jankovic, Mrdjan Ford Res. and Advanced Engineering 14:00-14:20 FrB18.2 Convex Analysis and Synthesis for Uncertain Discrete-Time Systems with Time-Varying State Delay pp. 4910-4915 Miranda, Marcio Fantini Federal Univ. of Minas Gerais Leite, Valter J. S CEFET/MG - Campus Div 14:20-14:40 FrB18.3 Lyapunov Tools for Predictor Feedbacks for Delay Systems: Inverse Optimality and Robustness to Delay Mismatch pp. 4916-4921 Krstic, Miroslav Univ. of California at San Diego 14:40-15:00 FrB18.4 Chain Stability in Traffic Flow with Driver Reaction Delays pp. 4922-4927 Sipahi, Rifat Northeastern Univ Niculescu, Silviu-Iulian CNRS-Supelec 15:00-15:20 FrB18.5 Robust Control and Time-Domain Specifications for Systems of Delay Differential Equations Via Eigenvalue Assignment pp. 4928-4933 Yi, Sun Univ. of Michigan Nelson, Patrick Univ. of Michigan Ulsoy, A. Galip Univ. of Michigan 15:20-15:40 FrB18.6 


Stabilization of Discrete Time-Varying Delay Systems: A Convex Parameter Dependent Approach pp. 4934-4939 Leite, Valter J. S CEFET/MG - Campus Div Miranda, Marcio Fantini Federal Univ. of Minas Gerais  FrC03 Grand Ballroom III Robust Control Lecture Session Chair: Fujita, Masayuki Tokyo Inst. of Tech Co-Chair: Lanusse, Patrick Bordeaux 1 Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC03.1 An Improved Version of of the RBode Plot pp. 4940-4945 Xia, Lu Carnegie Mellon Univ Messner, William Carnegie Mellon Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC03.2 Robust H Infinity Control of an Uncertain System Via a Stable Postive Real Output Feedback Controller pp. 4946-4953 Petersen, Ian R UNSW at Australian Def. Force Acad 16:40-17:00 FrC03.3 Fractional Robust Control with Iso-Damping Property pp. 4954-4959 Pommier-Budinger, Valerie ISAE Janat, Yaman ENSICA Nelson Gruel, Dominique Bordeaux 1 Lanusse, Patrick Bordeaux 1 Univ Oustaloup, Alain Univ. Bordeaux 1 - ENSEIRB - ENSCPB 17:00-17:20 FrC03.4 Relaxed Robust Stabilization of Nonlinear Systems with Parametric Uncertainties pp. 4960-4965 Chen, Zhaona Northeastern Univ Zheng, Xiuping Northeastern Univ Jing, Yuanwei Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul 17:20-17:40 FrC03.5 Gamma-Independent H-Inf-Discretization of Sampled-Data Systems by Modified Fast-Sample/Fast-Hold Approximation with Fast Liftin g pp 4966-4972 Hagiwara, Tomomichi Kyoto Univ Okada, Koichiro Kyoto Univ  FrC05 Grand Ballroom II Networked Control Systems III Lecture Session Chair: Lemmon, Michael Univ. of Notre Dame Co-Chair: Martins, Nuno C Univ. of Maryland 16:00-16:20 FrC05.1 Network-Based H_{infty} Control of Systems with Packet Dropout and Time-Varying Sampling Period pp. 4973-4978 Wang, Yu-Long Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC05.2 On Transmitter Design in Power Constrained LQG Control pp. 4979-4984 Breun, Peter Tech. Univ. Munich \(TUM Utschick, Wolfgang TUM 16:40-17:00 FrC05.3 On Decentralized Optimal Control and Information Structures pp. 4985-4990 Motee, Nader Univ. of Pennsylvania Jadbabaie, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Bamieh, Bassam Univ. of California at Santa Barbara 17:00-17:20 FrC05.4 Stabilization of Networked Control Systems with Large Delays and Packet Dropouts pp. 4991-4996 Cloosterman, Marieke Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Van De Wouw, Nathan Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Heemels, Maurice Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Nijmeijer, Hendrik Eindhoven Univ. of Tech 17:20-17:40 FrC05.5 Stability Analysis for a Class of Networked/embedded Control Systems: A Discrete-Time Approach pp. 4997-5002 Fujioka, Hisaya Kyoto Univ  


FrC06 5th Avenue Games and Decision Processes Lecture Session Chair: Neogi, Natasha A Univ. of Illinois Co-Chair: Sundaram, Shreyas Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 16:00-16:20 FrC06.1 Robust Markov Decision Processes Using Sigma Point Sampling pp. 5003-5008 Bertuccelli, Luca F Massachusetts Inst. of Tech How, Jonathan P MIT 16:20-16:40 FrC06.2 Multi-Cumulant and Pareto Strategies for Stochastic Multi-Player Pursuit-Evasion pp. 5009-5015 Pham, Khanh D Air Force Res. Lab Lacy, Seth L Air Force Res. Lab Robertson, Lawrence AIR FORCE Res. Lab 16:40-17:00 FrC06.3 Recursive Computation of Stochastic Nash Games with State-Dependent Noise for Weakly-Coupled Large-Scale Systems pp. 5016-5022 Mukaidani, Hiroaki Hiroshima Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC06.4 N Player Nash Cumulant Games pp. 5023-5028 Diersing, Ronald Univ. of Southern Indiana Sain, Michael K Univ. of Notre Dame Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 17:20-17:40 FrC06.5 A Potential-Based Method for Finite-Stage Markov Decision Processes pp. 5029-5034 Jia, Qing-Shan Tsinghua Univ  FrC09 Vashon II Multivehicle Systems Lecture Session Chair: Martinez, Sonia Univ. of California at San Diego Co-Chair: Pagilla, Prabhakar R Oklahoma State Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC09.1 Elastic Multi-Particle Systems for Bounded-Curvature Path Planning pp. 5035-5040 Ahmadzadeh, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Jadbabaie, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Pappas, George J Univ. of Pennsylvania Kumar, Vijay Univ. of Pennsylvania 16:20-16:40 FrC09.2 Value-Based Control of the Observation-Decision Process pp. 5041-5046 McEneaney, William Univ. of California, San Diego Oran, Ali Univ. of California, San Diego Cavender, Andrew Univ. of California, San Diego 16:40-17:00 FrC09.3 Decentralized Control Based on the Value of Information in Large Vehicle Arrays pp. 5047-5054 Speyer, Jason L Univ. of California at Los Angeles Seok, Ilwoo UCLA Michelin, Andre UCLA 17:00-17:20 FrC09.4 Decentralized Reactive Collision Avoidance for Multiple Unicycle-Type Vehicles pp. 5055-5061 Lalish, Emmett Univ. of Washington Morgansen, Kristi A Univ. of Washington Tsukamaki, Takashi The Boeing Company 17:20-17:40 FrC09.5 On Robust Control Algorithms for Nonlinear Network Consensus Protocols pp. 5062-5067 Hui, Qing Georgia Inst. of Tech Haddad, Wassim M Georgia Inst. of Tech Bhat, Sanjay P Indian Inst. of Tech. - Bombay  FrC10 Cascade I \(A Switched Nonlinear Systems Lecture Session Chair: Cortes, Jorge Univ. of California at San Diego Co-Chair: Najson, Federico Univ. de la Rep˙blica 16:00-16:20 FrC10.1 Robust H-Infinity Control for a Class of Uncertain Switched Nonlinear Systems Using Constructive Approach pp. 5068-5073 


Li, Li-li Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC10.2 Average Dwell-Time Method to L2-Gain Analysis and Control Synthesis for Uncertain Switched Nonlinear Systems pp. 5074-5079 Wang, Min Northeast Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 16:40-17:00 FrC10.3 H_infinity Control for a Class of Non-Minimum-Phase Cascade Switched Nonlinear Systems pp. 5080-5085 Wang, Min Northeast Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC10.4 Applications of a Model Matching Framework in Switched Systems pp. 5086-5091 Jiang, Shengxiang Univ. of California, Santa Barbara Voulgaris, Petros G Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 17:20-17:40 FrC10.5 Fast-Switching Pulse Synchronization of Chaotic Oscillators pp. 5092-5097 Fiorilli, Francesca Pol. Univ Porfiri, Maurizio Pol. Univ  FrC11 Cascade I \(B Modeling and Simulation Lecture Session Chair: Braatz, Richard D Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign Co-Chair: Ou, Yongsheng Lehigh Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC11.1 Stack-Level Validation of a Semi-Analytic Channel-To-Channel Fuel Cell Model for Two-Phase Water Distribution Boundary Value Co ntrol  pp. 5098-5103 McCain, Buz Univ. of Michigan Siegel, Jason Univ. of Michigan Stefanopoulou, Anna G Univ. of Michigan 16:20-16:40 FrC11.2 Modeling and Simulation of PEM Fuel Cell with Bond Graph and 20sim pp. 5104-5108 Peraza, Cesar Inst. Univ. TecnolÛgico Valencia Diaz, Jose Gregorio Univ. de Carabobo Arteaga-Bravo, Francisco J Univ. de Carabobo Villanueva, Carlos Univ. de Carabobo Gonzalez-Longatt, Francisco UNEFA 16:40-17:00 FrC11.3 An Improved Finite Element Model of Incremental Forming Using Conic Programming pp. 5109-5114 Raithatha, Ankor Mahendra Oxford Univ Duncan, Stephen Univ. of Oxford 17:00-17:20 FrC11.4 Study of Three Different Approaches for Development of Power System Aggregated Load Area Models pp. 5115-5120 Wei, Jianlin Univ. of Birmingham Wang, Jihong Univ. of Birmingham Wu, Q. Henry Univ. of Liverpool Jia, Nan Univ. of Liverpool Lu, Nan Univ. of Liverppol 17:20-17:40 FrC11.5 Adaptive Synchronization for a Class of Complex Delayed Dynamical Networks pp. 5121-5126 Zhong, Wei-Song Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ  FrC12 Orcas Nonlinear Control Analysis and Applications II Lecture Session Chair: Sanfelice, Ricardo G Univ. of California Santa Barbara Co-Chair: Reger, Johann Tech. Univ. Berlin 16:00-16:20 FrC12.1 Planning a Finite Time Transition from a Non-Stationary to a Stationary Point without Overshoot pp. 5127-5129 Reger, Johann Tech. Univ. Berlin 


16:20-16:40 FrC12.2 Stabilizing Control of Symmetric Affine Systems by Direct Gradient Descent Control pp. 5130-5135 Tamura, Kenichi Keio Univ Shimizu, Kiyotaka Keio Univ 16:40-17:00 FrC12.3 Transfer Equivalence and Reduction of Nonlinear Delta Differential Equations on Homogeneous Time Scale pp. 5136-5141 Casagrande, Daniele Imperial Coll. London Kotta, ‹lle Inst. of Cybernetics at TUT Wyrwas, Malgorzata Tallinn Univ. of Tech Tonso, Maris Inst. of Cybernetics at Tallinn Univ. of 17:00-17:20 FrC12.4 QFT Control for Vibration Reduction in Structures Equipped with MR Dampers pp. 5142-5144 Zapateiro, Mauricio Univ. of Girona Luo, Ningsu Univ. of Girona Karimi, Hamid Reza Univ. of Girona 17:20-17:40 FrC12.5 A Constructive Lyapunov Function for Controlling the Inverted Pendulum pp. 5145-5149 Aguilar-Ibanez, Carlos Centro De Investigacion En Computacion  FrC14 Adams Robust and Adaptive Control II Lecture Session Chair: Packard, Andrew K Univ. of California at Berkeley Co-Chair: Schofield, Brad Lund Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC14.1 An Initial Study of a Combined Robust and Adaptive Control Approach to Guaranteed Performance Flight Control pp. 5150-5155 Boskovic, Jovan D Scientific Systems Co. Inc Knoebel, Nathan Scientific Systems Company INC Mehra, Raman K Scientific Systems Co. Inc 16:20-16:40 FrC14.2 Adaptive Control Using Reduced-Order Observers pp. 5156-5161 Boskovic, Jovan D Scientific Systems Co. Inc Knoebel, Nathan Scientific Systems Company INC 16:40-17:00 FrC14.3 Adaptive Robust Control of Uncertain Neutral Time-Delay Systems pp. 5162-5167 Moezzi, Kaveh Concordia Univ Aghdam, Amir G Concordia Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC14.4 Practical Robust Adaptive Control: Benchmark Example pp. 5168-5173 Kuipers, Matthew Univ. of Southern California Ioannou, Petros A Univ. of Southern California 17:20-17:40 FrC14.5 Adaptive Hybrid Control for Omnidirectional Mobile Manipulators Using Neural Network pp. 5174-5179 Tan, Xiangmin Key Lab. of Complex SystemsandIntelligentScience,Inst. Auto Zhao, Dongbin Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences Yi, Jianqiang Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences Xu, Dong Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences  FrC15 Blakeley Uncertain Systems II Lecture Session Chair: Hu, Jianghai Purdue Univ Co-Chair: Zak, Stanislaw H Purdue Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC15.1 Control of Uncertain Systems with Guaranteed Performance pp. 5180-5185 Lian, Jianming Purdue Univ Sudhoff, Scott Purdue Univ Zak, Stanislaw H Purdue Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC15.2 Estimation of Model Uncertainties in Closed-Loop Systems pp. 5186-5191 Niemann, Henrik Tech. Univ. of Denmark Poulsen, Niels Kj lstad Tech. Univ. of Denmark 16:40-17:00 FrC15.3 Integral Controllability and Integrity for Uncertain Systems pp. 5192-5197 


H‰ggblom, Kurt E bo Akademi Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC15.4 Optimal Timing of Control Law Updates for Unstable Systems with Continuous Control pp. 5198-5203 Gustafson, Eric Univ. of Michigan Scheeres, Daniel The Univ. of Michigan 17:20-17:40 FrC15.5 Network-Based Robust H_infty Control of Continuous-Time Systems with Uncertainty pp. 5204-5209 Zhu, Xun-Lin Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ  FrC16 Cascade I \(C Spacecraft Control II Lecture Session Chair: Su, Chun-Yi Concordia Univ Co-Chair: Ghose, Debasish Indian Inst. of Science 16:20-16:40 FrC16.2 Time Optimal Attitude Control for a Rigid Body pp. 5210-5215 Lee, Taeyoung Univ. of Michigan Leok, Melvin Purdue Univ McClamroch, N. Harris Univ. of Michigan 16:40-17:00 FrC16.3 A Novel Application of an Extended State Observer for High Performance Control of NASAís HSS Flywheel pp. 5216-5221 Alexander, B.X.S Cleveland State Univ Rarick, Richard Cleveland State Univ Dong, Lili Cleveland State Univ 17:20-17:40 FrC16.5 Perturbed Feedback Linearization of Attitude Dynamics pp. 5222-5229 Bajodah, Abdulrahman H King Abdulaziz Univ  FrC17 Whidbey Observers for Nonlinear Systems Lecture Session Chair: Celikovsky, Sergej Acad. of Science Co-Chair: Subbarao, Kamesh The Univ. of Texas, Arlington 16:00-16:20 FrC17.1 Discrete-Time Mixed H2/H-Infinity Nonlinear Filtering pp. 5230-5235 Aliyu, M. D. S Concordia Univ Boukas, El-Kebir Ec. Pol. de Montreal 16:20-16:40 FrC17.2 A Minimal Dimension Observer for Global Frequency Estimation pp. 5236-5241 Carnevale, Daniele Univ. di Roma Astolfi, Alessandro Imperial Coll. London and Univ. of Rome 16:40-17:00 FrC17.3 Time Scaling of a Multi-Output Observer Form pp. 5242-5247 Wang, Yebin Univ. of Alberta Lynch, Alan Francis Univ. of Alberta 17:00-17:20 FrC17.4 Sliding Mode Adaptive State Observation for Time-Delay Uncertain Nonlinear Systems pp. 5248-5253 Raoufi, Reza Univ. of Alberta Zinober, Alan The Univ. of Sheffield 17:20-17:40 FrC17.5 Observer with Sample-And-Hold Updating for Lipschitz Nonlinear Systems with Nonuniformly Sampled Measurements pp. 5254-5257 Raff, Tobias Univ. of Stuttgart Allgower, Frank Univ. of Stuttgart  FrC18 Vashon I Delay Systems II Lecture Session Chair: Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila Co-Chair: Jankovic, Mrdjan Ford Res. and Advanced Engineering 16:00-16:20 FrC18.1 Semi-Algebraic Problem Approach for Stability Analysis of a Class of Nonlinear Stochastic Delay System pp. 5258-5263 Kashima, Kenji Tokyo Inst. of Tech 


16:20-16:40 FrC18.2 ISS Control Laws for Retarded Stabilizable Systems by Means of the Liapunov-Krasovskii Methodology pp. 5264-5269 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 16:40-17:00 FrC18.3 If a Retarded System Is Linearizable and Stabilizable, Then It Is Input-To-State Stabilizable pp. 5270-5275 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 17:00-17:20 FrC18.4 ISS Control Laws for Retarded Stabilizable Systems by Means of the Liapunov-Razumikhin Methodology pp. 5276-5281 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 17:20-17:40 FrC18.5 On the Zeros of Quasi-Polynomials with Single Delay pp. 5282-5286 Gumussoy, Suat The MathWorks Inc  


