PRBAC: An Extended Role Based Access Control for Privacy preserving Data mining Eun Hee Kim Keun Ho Ryu Jun Heo Dept. Computer science National University, Korea Electronics and telecommunications researsch  anwarking ehkim, khr  dblab chungbuk  ac  kr ABSTRACT Issues about privacy preserving data mining have emerged globally but still the main problem is that non 
sensitive information or unclassified data one is able to infer sensitive information that i s not supposed to be disclosed. This paper proposes an approach to PPDM based on an extended Role based access control called Privacy preserving Data mining using an extended role based access C Sensitive objects \(SOBS component is added to the model in order to privacy protecting during data mining Users are allowed to access and thereby mine different sets o f data according to their roles. Our proposed model can be 
used over the existing technologies. The paper goal is topreserve individualês privacy Keywords Privacy preserving data mining 1 Introduction Explosive progress in networking, storage, and processor technology has led to the creation of ultra large databases that record unprecedented amount of transactional information. The main problem is that non sensitive information or unclassified data one is able to infer sensitive information that is not supposed to be disclosed. Despite its benefits in various areas such as marketing business, medical analysis bioinformatics and 
others data mining can also pose a threat to privacy in database security if not done or used properly Privacy preserving data mining  is a novel research direction in data mining and statistical databases, where data mining algorithms are analyzed for the side effects they incur in data privacy The central problem in privacy preserving data mining community is how to get data mining results without access to the original data This brings about a lot of topics such as definition of privacy measurement of 
privacy and techniques that can help to preserve privacy The main consideration in privacy preserving data mining is two fold First, sensitive raw data like identifiers names addresses and the like should be modified or trimmed out from the original database in order for the recipient of the data not to be able to compromise another personês privacy This paper proposes an approach to privacypreserving data mining based on an extended Role based access control called where we have added SOBS even 
using the same data mining technique users are allowed to mine different sets of data. Our proposed PRBAC The users will only access to objects tables, attributes views that are compatible with their roles permission compared to SOBS permission where existing access control system in the database server may continue to be in place The effort described in this paper is by no means meant to be complete or comprehensive Rather our primary goal is to present our preliminary ideas in order to motivate 
discussion on richer access control of This paper organized as follows Related work is reviewed in section 2 Section 3 presents the privacy preservation requirement in PRBAC In section 4 we describe our proposed PRBAC model to privacy preserving data mining In section 5 we present the Privacy Preservation process by providing a scenario of use in web-based application Finally section 6 presents conclusions and future directions for our work 2 Related Work 
For the past few years, several approaches have been proposed in the context of privacy preserving data mining. Some of the approaches have been developed namely heuristic based approach centralized data perturbation based association rule perturbation, which is accomplished by the alteration of an attribute value by a new value changing a I-value to a 0 value or adding 5 centralized data blocking based Proceedings of the Fourth Annual ACIS International Conference on Computer and Information Science \(ICISê05 0-7695-2296-3/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


association rule confusion and centralized data blocking based classification rule confusion which is the replacement of an existing attribute value with a The central idea of the heuristic based approach techniques is that how to hide sensitive rules that can be mined the original data while maximizing the utility of the released data The second approach is the reconstruction based approach 6 8 the central idea of the reconstruction based approach is that we first use some methods to distort the values of the original data and then release these distorted data The third approach is Cryptography based approach  10 11 12 The cryptography based approach has been developed to solve the following problem Two or more parties want to conduct a computation based on their private inputs, but neither party is willing to disclose its own output to anybody else This problem is referred to as the Secure Multiparty Computation \(SMC problem, which requires that no more information be revealed to a participant in the computation than thatês participantês input and output It is important to realize that data modification results in degradation of the database performance In order to quantify the degradation of the data we mainly use two metrics. The first one measures the confidential data protection while the second measures the loss of functionality Finally the access control based approach in this approach the authors wanted to provide the groundwork to build an access control model over existing technologies; they suggested a basic theory for their proposed access control model called Multi relational association rules MRAR MRAR model is composed of three layers notably Authenticator, checker and the database server In MRAR the type of policy is Mandatory access control where the users are associated to mining levels this is extremely disadvantage of MRAR especially when focusing on the third requirement of that model The addressed problem in MRAR is multilevel association rules The major disadvantage of MRAR is that, Not always possible to assign clearances to users of a commercial information systems and Not always possible to assign sensitivity levels to data in case of level contains another level The problem of MRAR has motivated our work Our proposed PRBAC falls into the category access control based approach based on Roles concept, the type of policy is Role based and the target system is Privacy preservation in data mining in the context of databases which can be built over existing database technologies We illustrate this idea taking into account the flexibility of role based access control models which satisfies the companies and organizations dynamicity 3 Privacy Preservation in PRBAC Clifton gave a complete discussion on how to define privacy for data mining. According to there are two different views on privacy: Individual privacy protecting individual data and corporate privacy the release of information about a collection of data rather than an individual data item We refer to individualês privacy for our PRBAC focus In the following section, we present the preliminary concept and additional requirements for an access control model for PRBAC 3.1 Preliminary for privacy preserving for PRBAC Type of Policy laws according to which accesses are controlled Policy in access control models can be classified into mandatory discretionary rolebased In PRBAC the policy type is Role based policy since users are assigned to roles and roles have certain permission for objects Type of Subject is a human being Type of Object In we have two types Object types are Text document Audio file video file web board, power point presentation file \(PPT Adobe acrobat file PDF ETC Sensitive object types could be Database table Columns Rows in specific tables predetermined by System Administrator and accessed only according to role permission Target System PRBAC targets Privacy preservation in data mining, in the context of databases Type of Control Oriented to control the access control of information Security Aspects The focus is mainly on secrecy, however integrity is also guaranteed implicitly since this access control model does not allow users to update the data of objects 3.2 Additional requirement for PRBAC model Must be based on the role based concept Users associated with certain role can not delegate their access rights to other Users are granted rights to access only parts of the data that they need to perform their mining tasks The access control of PRBAC might be able to deal with multiple users mining concurrently but the same user can not have multiple active sessions A user can never have an active mining session that is not authorized for that user Proceedings of the Fourth Annual ACIS International Conference on Computer and Information Science \(ICISê05 0-7695-2296-3/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


A user can perform an operation reading mining\if the userês role permission is authorized for the role session in which the user is currently active 4 PRBAC Model A preliminary concept to presented in this section, and PRBAC model specifications 4.1 Traditional Role control PRBAC model is then we introduce based access RBAC \(Sandhu Feinstein has been one of the most known approaches to protect information in the context of relational databases which prevents users obtaining a sufficiently large and varied sample of a database The model is based on three sets of entities called users roles \(R\and permissions a role can have much permission and the same permissions can be assigned to many roles. A permission is an approval of a particular mode of access to one or more objects in the system The terms authorization, access right and privilege are also used in the literature to denote permission Although RBAC ensures that only authorized users are given access to certain data or resource, it does not prevent users from finding patterns that they are not supposed to discover using data mining 4.2 PRBAC model Our proposed PRBAC is designed to resolve the problem of finding patterns that they are not supposed to be discovered by the addition of sensitive objects SOBS Figure1 shows our PRBAC model components  Figure 1 PRBAC Model Our proposed PRBAC model is defined as follows User U A user in this model is a human being, intelligent autonomous agents such as robots immobile computers, or even networks of computers For simplicity, we focus on a user as a human being Role R and Role hierarchy A role is a job function or job title within the organization with some associated semantics regarding the authority and responsibility conferred on a member of the role department manager Role hierarchy RH in is a natural way of organizing roles to reflect the organizationês lines of authority and responsibility Department managers\A senior role can inherit permissions junior roles department manager can inherit the deputy managerês role permission\that we assume no Role delegation in the Role hierarchy in this paper Permission P Permission is an approval of a particular mode of access to one or more objects in the system A user establishes a session during which he activates some subset of roles that he or she is a member Object OB An entity that contains or receives information or has exhaustible system resources Text document, Audio and Video files, PPT files ETC Sensitive object SOB  sensitive objects \(is predetermined by the database administrator DBA\system administrator and it differs according to role permission, could be Database Table, columns, Rows, in specific tables  In order to access the sensitive objects, our model has two operations namely: include and discard Entity Relationships in PRBAC model Session S Users and Roles many to many user to role assignment relation Roles and Permissions  many to many: A role can have much permission and the same permissions can be assigned to many roles Permissions and Object  many to Many: A permission is an approval to one or more objects in the system Permissions and SOBS  many to Many A permission is an approval to one or more sensitive objects in the system according to Role permission Users and Sessions A user establishes a session during which he activates some subset of roles that he is a member of Sessions and Roles  many to many Each session is a mapping of one user to possibly many roles Include means that the Role permission has an access to certain sensitive If any user is satisfied this operation then will be allowed to include the sensitive data during data mining This operation can be expressed as U R SOBS P include Operation I Proceedings of the Fourth Annual ACIS International Conference on Computer and Information Science \(ICISê05 0-7695-2296-3/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


 Operation 2 Discard can not access the sensitive objects If any user is satisfied this operation then will be replaced by NULL value privacy data during data mining This operation can be expressed as Policy U R SOBS  P discard Policy in model represents one task during the active role and consists of the following set  ob sob where is user r is assigned role for each user; ob and sob represent general object list and sensitive object list respectively is a permission to general object and is permission for sensitive objects; And finally op is the operation that answers whether or not the specified role permission is given an access to a certain SOBS The process of privacy preservation is described Input: Select allowed attribute list in each table from The original DB thmugh materialized view Replace each SOBS with NULL value the Role permission is not allowed to select that SOBS else disconnect  discovered patterns he following major steps If user  activity session then disconnect mutually exclusive tasks Else if user  activity that attempt to login then userid and password then get Role from Role table else if user users Create session Session start and end time Get Role permission from Permission table Get general and sensitive objects fmrn Disk and Tables respectively Get list of each object permission SOBS permission Compare Role permission to object and SOBS permissions policy to miner Engine sob Close All Completed tasks Figure 2 Authentication process Method  using existing mining algorithm Figure 3 Mining process In here each role permission will be compared to the selected SOBS permission and automatically replace a NULL value to each unmatched permission The combination of the policy tables allowed object lists are the input of the mining stage. The output is the extracted knowledge using the existing mining method so in our model there is no need to modify any of the existing mining methods 5 The Privacy Preservation Process In this part, the terminology mentioned in the previous section will be used to show the scenario of use for our model for the web-based educational site Data mining methods such as classification are useful in web based educational systems, and can be applied to discover interesting associations based on students' features and the actions taken by students in solving homework and exam problems the paper tries to answer the following question: Can we find classes of students In other words do there exist groups of students who use these online resources in a similar way No doubt that such question will raise the privacy issue because of protecting student's privacy is a necessity for such applications For instance, let's consider this scenario in which there is a web-based educational site that provides online testing materials Text files PDF files Audio and Video of language exams serious TOEFL TOEIC GRE and ETC for site members and area for guests; the site visitors are mainly students who use these materials for the sake of training or preparing for tests. This site has two types of teachers who upload the educational materials, full-time and part time teacher each of them are assigned to role and has a limited write set grades modify ,upload and delete\The site database relations shows figure 4  ID Name User to Class ID Name User ID Type Permission  ID Name Role to Permission  Figure 4 site database relations The bolded italic attributes shows the sensitive objects in the relations Site members can perform certain tasks on the objects according to their roles permission Read write to board execute audio and video, download files\is each user must be registered during active role session Each of site members has own personal data that contains general data such as name or registered class and sensitive Proceedings of the Fourth Annual ACIS International Conference on Computer and Information Science \(ICISê05 0-7695-2296-3/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


SOBS\as age sex and telephone, stored in a database and can not be disclosed by anyone except the data owner The site is using web based Association rules mining engine that helps in extracting knowledge from the site database, both the site Administrator and the teachers are allowed to use this mining engine which course are likely to imply another course  the association will be the in the form takes \(x, TOIEC TOEFL confidence Such knowledge helps the site owner to the provided classes and at the same time requires access to normal and sensitive data 5.1 Process description Figure shows the whole process framework The process of protecting privacy of sensitive objects is accomplished in two major steps as follows: Through the web based user interface, the user enters user id and password. The first step is that the authentication module performs the following steps Checks the user existence from the users database Alice gets the user role from the role database Role of Alice: Full time teacher and gets role permission from permission database permission of teacher Alice: read, write upload, modify\The goal of this step is build the policy PW Role Permission> Materialized view appears showing the allowed attribute lists in each resource set    Figure 5 Process framework Let's assume that the site administrator determines the student's age, sex, telephone, job and scores as SOBS then automatically it will be replaced by NULL to the each unmatched role permission and include it in their mining processes Hence, if we have three users \(Administrator, Part time teacher and member student\accessing the site then three different policies will be generated We observe the following three different policies Admin all}, {all}, {age, address, sex, tel Policy 1 For Admin policy Policy 2 For Part time teacher policy Jain, Part time teacher all}, {all}, {age, address sex, tel job Policy 3 For Member student policy Member student, {all all For example, Jain wants to get some information student name, age class level, score, etc\about all students in her class If she tries to extract knowledge from the database then she obtains her policy Jain Part time teacher all}, {all Where Jain is user name, Part time teacher is the assigned role all} stands for the general objects \(ppt, pdf, audio all} is the assigned privilege for these objects \(read, write, execute, etc age, address sex tel, job stands for the sensitive objects the privileges for the sensitive objects The second step is the mining step In order for Jain to extract knowledge, firstly according to her policy our framework generates a materialized view that contains NULL values for some attributes unmatched sensitive objects permission to Jain's policy In Jain case she can access only her sensitive objects name and class\and a NULL value instead of the score attribute in the materialized view Therefore, we can protect privacy during extracting the knowledge Hence, each an unmatched permission with the SOBS permission will be replaced by NULL value in the materialized view and no longer included in the mining engine 6 Conclusion and future work The major contributions paper are: Privacy preserving data mining using an extended Role based access control called PRBAC can be used over existing technologies and an efficient method that prevent sensitive attributes disclosure. We analyzed the necessary security requirements for an access control model of PRBAC, provided a scenario of use for an application area of PRBAC and we have provided a conceptual foundations and introduced basic definitions of our model. Our proposed model has two modules: Authentication which checks for the Role existence and the assigned Role permission where it verifies the SOBS permission materialized view module which matches the sensitive attributes and replace them with NULL value if the role permission is not allowed to select that objects, and the existing data mining technique. This paper contribution is by no means meant to be complete and comprehensive Rather our primary goal is to step forward toward motivating richer discussion about applying our extended PRBAC for privacy preserving data mining We argue that our PRBAC is an in insuring sensitive attributes disclosure and will limit the privacy breaches. Future work will examine the Role delegation Our aim is to develop efficient and Proceedings of the Fourth Annual ACIS International Conference on Computer and Information Science \(ICISê05 0-7695-2296-3/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


methods feasible without sacrificing individual's privacy 7 References Clifton and Murat Kantarcioglu and Jaideep Vaidya Defining Privacy for Data Mining In Proceedings o f the National Science Foundation Workshop on Next Generation Mining November 3 2002, Baltimore, MD. Invited paper  A  C Yao How to generate and exchange secrets In Proceedings o f the 27th IEEE Symposium on Foundations o f Computer Science pages 162.167 986 3 S Verykios E Bertino I N L P Y Saygin Theodoridis State of the art in Privacy Preserving Data Mining SIGMOD Record Vol 33, No Pages 50 2004  J  Elisa Bertino Ahmed K Elmagarmid, Mohamed and Vassilios S Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules In Proceedings of the IEEE Knolwedge and Data Engineering Workshop 5] Elena Vassilios S Verykios, Ahmed K and Elisa Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by using Confidence and Support In Proceedings of the 4th Information Hiding Workshop 369.383 6 Saygin Vassilios and Ahmed K Privacy preserving association rule mining In Proceedingsof International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering pages 151.158 7 Chang and Ira S Moskowitz Parsimonious downgrading and decision trees applied to the inference problem In Proceedings of the 1998 New Security Workshop 82.89 10 8 Rakesh Agrawal Srikant Privacy Preserving Data Mining ACM SIGMOD, 2000 Agrawal, Johannes Gehrke Privacy Preserving Mining of Association Rules SIGKDD 02 Edmonton, Alberta, Canada C Clifton M Kantarcioglu J Vaidya X Lin and M Y Zhu Tools for Privacy Preserving Distributed Data Mining In SIGKDD Explorations 28 34 December 2002 Murat Kantarcioglu Chris Clifton Mining o f association IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, 2003 Jaideep Vaidya Chris Clifton. Privacy Preserving Association Rule Mining in Vertically Partitioned Data. 2002  Means over Partitioned Data SIGKDD August 2427,2003 Washington, DC USA D and C. C On the design and quantification of privacy preserving data mining algorithms In Proceedings of the Twentieth ACM SIGACTSIGMOD SIGART Symposium on Principles of Database Systems, pages 247.255, Santa Barbara, California USA, May 21 23 2001  Stanley R M  Osmar R Foundationsfor an access control model f o r privacy preservation in multi relational association rule mining In Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on Privacy security and data mining Volume 14 Maebashi City Japan Pages 26 2002  Johannes, Gehrke Limiting privacy breaches in privacy preserving data mining In Proceedings of thetwenty symposium on Principles of database systems 2003 Stanley R M Osmar R Protecting Knowledge By Data Sanitization In Proceedings of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining. 2003 Rakesh Agrawal Tomasz imielinski and Arun Swami Mining association rules between sets o f items in large databases In Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Management of Data, pages 207 216 Washington D C May 1993 Ravi S Edward J Coynek, Hal L Feinsteink and Charles E Youmank Role Based Access Control Models IEEE Computer Society Press Alamitos CA USA 47 February 1996 Minaei Bigdoli B Kortemeyer G Punch W.F  Enhancing Online Learning Performance An Application o f Data Mining Methods   The 7th IASTED International Conference on Computers and Advanced Technology in Education CATE pp 173 178 Hawaii USA August 2004   Acknowledgement This work was supported by Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute, Regional Research Centers Program and University IT Research Center Project in Korea Proceedings of the Fourth Annual ACIS International Conference on Computer and Information Science \(ICISê05 0-7695-2296-3/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


 CONNECT  Average size of closed 155 5 10 5 316 10 82 15 19 4897 20 1197 30 427 89 9017 I 1 3.767 2 5.840 3 7.138 4 8.364 5 8.998 6 7 11.179 1 3.418 2 4.621 3 6.358 4 7.332 5 8.218 11 1 2.5 2 4.041 3 5.052 4 6.209 5 7.333 6 8.5 2.045 2 5.322 4 6 7 10.272 8 11.341 1 1.952 3.691 3 5.174 4 6.512 5 7.751 6 8.911 7 10.006 8 1 1.032 1 1.952 2 3.596 3 5.017 4 6.323 5 7.539 6 8.671 7 9.732 8 10.71 1 2 3.543 4.61 5.612 6.573 7.525 8.453 9.319 10: 10 1.21 2.401 3.537 4.564 5.546 6.518 7.472 8.369 9.181 1 1.25 2.366 3.406 4.414 5.394 7.185 8 Table 6 Experimental results rules This additional knowledge highlighting connected rules to a user select rule allows an improvement of machine interaction To do so we constructed a set of fuzzy meta rules extracted from the discovered fuzzy closed sets The visualization prototype is currently under imple mentation and in the near we plan also to include rec ommended visualization tasks history and extract and to lead extensive experimental results to assess their sat isfaction vs the user graphical interface Acknowledgments The authors would like to thank Mrs Audrey for its helpful efforts in the Figure 3 Displaying derived association rule of visualization prototype and the anonymous review ers for their helpful comments This work was partially fi nanced by the region Nord Pas de Calais References P Adriaans and D Zantinge Data mining Addison Wesley 1997 2 R. Agrawal and R Fast algorithms for mining asso ciation rules In Proceedings of the 20th International Con ference on Very Large Databases pages June 1994 3 M and B Monjardet Ordre et classijication Hachette Tome 1970 4 Y N. Pasquier R Taouil L Lakhal and G Stumme. Mining minimal non redundant association rules using frequent closed itemsets In Proceedings of the International Conference Lecture Notes in Computer Sciences, Springer verlag pages 972 986 july 2000 5 R Belohlavek. Fuzzy Galois connections Math Logic 1999 6 S BenYahia and A Jaoua. Discovering knowledge from fuzzy concept lattice In mining and Computational Intelligence Studies in Fuzziness and Computing Vol 68 chapter 7 pages Verlag Heidelberg March 2001 7 S BenYahia and E M Nguifo. Approches dêextraction de dêassociation la correspondance de galois ISI 2004 8 S BenYahia and E M Nguifo. Revisiting generic bases of association rules In Proceedings of 6th International Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence ICTAI 2004 20.00 2004 C OM P U T E R SOCIETY 


Conference on Data Warehousing and Knowledge Discov ery Da 2004 Springer Verlag to appeal Spain 2004 9 S and Discovering Association Rules using the Formal Concept Analysis Extraction des Apprenrissage special issue of Intl Conference of es francophones et Gestion des France January 2002 Brin R Motawni and C Silverstein. Beyond market baskets  Generalizing association rules to correlation In Proceedings of the SIGMOD Tucson Arizona USA pages 265 276 May 1997  S Brin, R Motwani and J Ullman. Dynamic count ing and implication rules In Proceedings ACM SIGMOD conference on Management of Data Arizona USA pages 255 264 1997 P Buono M F Costabile, and F A. Lisi Supporting data analysis through visualizations In Proceedings of Workshop on Visual Data Mining Freiburg Germany pages 67 78 September 2001 Recherche de dêassociations par une approche Revue spe cial issue of Intl Conference of francophones et Gestion des Clermont Ferrand France Cepaduks Editions 572, 19 23 January 2004 F and R Demolombe. How to recognize inter esting topics to provide cooperative answering Systems 1989 V Frantz and J. Shapiro Algorithms for automatic con struction of query formulations in boolean form Journal of the American for Information Science 1991 B. Ganter and R Formal Concept Analysis Verlag Heidelberg, 1999 J Guigues and V Duquenne Familles minimales dêimplications informatives dêun tableau de binaires Sciences  J. Han and Y Fu Discovery of multiple level association rules from large databases In Proceedings of the VLDB Con ference pages 1995  A. Jaoua S Elloumi S and F con nection in fuzzy binary relations: applications for discover ing association rules and decision making Methodos Pub lisher, 2002 M. Kryszkiewicz Concise representations of association In D J Hand N Adams, and R editors Proceedings of Detection and Discovery, ESF Ex ploratory Workshop, London volume 2447 of Lec ture Notes in Computer Science pages 92 109 Springer September 2002 M. Luxenburger Implication dans un contexte Sciences 29 1 0 Couturier E M Nguifo, and B 1986 H H Toinoven and I Verkamo Efficient algo rithms for discovering association rules In Worshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases pages 18 1 1 92, July 1994 R Meo G Psaila and S Ceri A new sql like operator for mining association rules In Proceedings of the VLDB Con ference pages 122 133 1996 A Motro Extending the relational Databases Model to sup port Goal queries. In L Lerschberg, editor Expert Database Systems pages The Publish ing Company, 1987 R T Ng V S Lakshmanan, J han and A Pang. Exploratory mining and pruning optimizations of constrained association rules In Proceedings of the Conference pages 24, 1998 S Pollandt Fuzzy Begriffe Begriffsanalyse scharfer Springer verlag, 1997 B. Shneiderman The eyes have it: A task by data type tax onomy for information visualization In I C S Press, editor Proceedings IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages del Colorado 336 343, 1996 R. Srikant Q and R. Agrawal Mining association rules with item constraints In Proc. of the 3rd Intl Conference on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining port Beach, California pages 67 73 August 1997 Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence ICTAI 2004 20.00 2004 IEEE SOCIETY 


 1   1   l  1 i 2  i  Hence the true frequency count of any item occurring on some input stream must be C  l  1 j  x 1  tc  j    j    where  is a small quantity 3  The number of items present in each input stream is thus n  C 4  Since synopses for d l  1  x input streams are transmitted through a node at level x  the load on the most heavily loaded link\(s is L  x  d l  2  x  n C  Clearly the maximum value of L  x  is achieved when   0  The expression for L  x  can be simpliìed to L  x  1  l  1 j  x 1  j  d x  j 1  Now our expression for the worst-case load on any link can be reduced to W  T    max x 0  1 l  2  L  x   We desire to minimize W  T   subject to the constraints  2   l  1  0 and  l  1 j 2  j   1 It is easy to show that this minimum is achieved when L 0  L 1    L  l  2  Solving for  2   l  1  we obtain  i   1  d  1  l  2   d  1 d  2  i  l  2 and  l  1   1  d  l  2   d  1 d  Translating to error tolerances we set  i   1   l  1  i    d  1 d  l  2   d  1 d for all 2  i  l  1  This setting of  2  l  1 minimizes worst-case communication load on any link We term this strategy MinMaxLoad WC Under this strategy the maximum possible load on any link is L wc   l  2   d  1 d d   1 counts per epoch Lastly we note that MinMaxLoad WC remains the optimal precision gradient even if nodes of the same level can have different  values Informally since with worst-case inputs all incoming streams have identical characteristics maximum link load cannot be improved by using non-uniform  values for nodes at a given level we omit a formal proof for brevity 2.1.4 Good Precision Gradients for Non-Worst-Case Inputs Real data is unlikely to exhibit worst-case characteristics Consequently strategies that are optimal in the worst case may not always perform well in practice In terms of minimizing the maximum communication load on any link the worst-case inputs are ones in which the set of items occurring on each input stream are disjoint When this situation arises a gradual precision gradient is best to use as shown in Section 2.1.3 Using a gradual precision gradient some of the pruning of frequency 3 Recall that we allow the frequency of an item to be a real number 4 More precisely each stream contains  n C  items of weight 1 each and one item of weight  n C  n C   Note that each input stream contains at most one item with weight less than 1 as stipulated earlier counts is delayed until a better estimate of the overall distribution is available closer to the root thereby enabling more effective pruning In the opposite extreme when all input streams contain identical distributions of item occurrences there is no beneìt to delaying pruning and performing maximal pruning at the leaf nodes as in strategy SS2 is most effective at minimizing communication In fact it is easy to show that SS2 is the optimal strategy for minimizing the maximum load on any link when all input streams are comprised of identical distributions we omit a formal proof Note however that SS2 still incurs a high space requirement on the root node R since it sets  1    We posit that most real-world data falls somewhere between these two extremes To determine where exactly a data set lies with regard to the two extremes we estimate the commonality between input streams S 1 S m by inspecting an epoch worth of data from each stream We compute a commonality parameter   0  1 as   1 m   m i 1 G i L i  where G i and L i are deìned over stream S i as follows The quantity G i is deìned as the number of distinct items occurring in S i that occur at least   S i  times in S i and also at least   S  times in S  S 1  S 2  S m  where  S  denotes the number of item occurrences in S during the epoch of measurement The quantity L i is deìned as the number of distinct items occurring in S i that occur at least   S i  times in S i  Hence commonality parameter  measures the fraction of items frequent enough in one input stream to be included in a leaf-level synopsis by strategy SS 2 that are also at least as frequent globally in the union of all input streams A natural hybrid strategy is to use a linear combination of MinMaxLoad WC and SS2 weighted by   The strategy is as follows set  i 1       1   l  1  i    d  1 d  l  2   d  1 d        for 2  i   l  2  and  l  1 1       1  d  l  2   d  1 d         We term this hybrid strategy MinMaxLoad NWC for non-worstcase Commonality parameter  1 implies that locally frequent items are also globally frequent and SS2 modiìed to use  1   is a good choice Conversely  0 indicates that MinMaxLoad WC is a good choice For 0  1  a weighted mixture of the two strategies is best 2.1.5 Summary The precision gradient strategies we have introduced are summarized in Table 3 Sample precision gradients are illustrated in Figure 3 3 Experimental Evaluation In this section we evaluate the performance of our newly-proposed strategies for setting the precision graProceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


Table 3 Summary of precision gradient settings studied  Strategy Description Section Introduced Simple Strategy 1 SS1 Transmits raw data to root node R 1.3 Simple Strategy 2 SS2 Reduces data maximally at leaves 1.3 MinRootLoad Minimizes total load on root in all cases 2.1.2 MinMaxLoad WC Minimizes worst-case maximum load on any link 2.1.3 MinMaxLoad NWC Achieves low load on heaviest-loaded link under non-worst-case inputs 2.1.4 0 0.0002 0.0004 0.0006 0.0008 0.001 43210 Tree level \(i SS1 SS2 MinRootLoad MinMaxLoad_WC MinMaxLoad_NWC Error tolerance  i input            leaf root Figure 3 Precision gradients for  0  001   0  5  dient using the two na  ve strategies suggested in Section 1 as baselines We begin in Section 3.1 by describing the real-world data and simulated distributed monitoring environment we used Then in Section 3.2 we analyze the data using our model of Section 2.1.4 to derive appropriate parameters for our MinMaxLoad NWC strategy that is geared toward performing in the presence of non-worst-case data We report our measurements of space utilization on node R in Section 3.3 and provide measurements of communication load in Section 3.4 3.1 Data Sets As described in Section 1 our motivating applications include detecting DDoS attacks and monitoring hot spots in large-scale distributed systems For the rst type of application we used trafìc logs from Internet2 and sought to identify hosts recei ving lar ge numbers of packets recently For the second type we sought to identify frequently-issued SQL queries in two dynamic Web application benchmarks conìgured to execute in a distributed fashion The I NTERNET 2 traf c traces were obtained by collecting anonymized netîow data from nine core routers of the Abilene network Data were collected for one full day of router operation and were broken into 288 ve-minute epochs To simulate a larger number of nodes we divided the data from each router in a random fashion We simulated an environment with 216 network nodes which also serve as monitor nodes For the web applications we used Java Servlet versions of two publicly available dynamic Web application benchmarks RUBiS and R UBBoS 10 R U BiS is modeled after eBay an online auction site and RUBBoS is modeled after slashdot an online bulletin-board so we refer them as AUCTION and BBOARD  respectively We used the suggested conìguration parameters for each application and ran each benchmark for 40 hours on a single node.We then partitioned the database requests into 216 groups in a roundrobin fashion honoring user session boundaries We simulated a distributed execution of each benchmark with 216 nodes each executing one group of database requests and also serving as a monitor node For all data sets we simulated an environment with 216 monitoring nodes  m  216  and a communication hierarchy of fanout six  d 6  Consequently our simulated communication hierarchy consisted of four levels including the root node  l 4  We set s 0  01   0  1  s  and  1 0  9    Our simulated monitor nodes used lossy counting in batch mode whereby frequency estimates were reduced only at the end of each epoch in all cases less than 64KB of buffer space was used to create synopses over local streams The epoch duration T was set to 5 minutes for the I NTERNET 2 data set and 15 minutes for the other two data sets 3.2 Data Characteristics Using samples of each of our three data sets we estimated the commonality parameter  for each data set Recall that we use  to parameterize our strategy MinMaxLoad NWC presented in Section 2.1.4 We obtained  values of 0.675 0.839 and 0.571 for the I NTER NET 2 AUCTION and BBOARD data sets respectively Hence the AUCTION data set exhibited the most commonality among all three data sets Results presented in Section 3.4 show that AUCTION indeed has the most commonality 3.3 Space Requirement on Root Node Figure 4 plots space utilization at the root node R as a function of time in units of epochs using Algorithm 2a to generate the synopsis for different values of the decay parameter   using two different strategies for the precision gradient The plots shown are for the I N TERNET 2 data set The y-axis of each graph plots the current number of counts stored in the     synopsis S A maintained by the root node R  Figure 4a plots synopsis size under our MinMaxLoad WC strategy under three different values of   0.6 0.9 and 1 As predicted by our analysis in when  1 the size of S A remains roughly constant after reaching steady-state whereas when  1 synopsis size increases logarithmically with time similar results were obtained for the Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 1 21416181 Time \(epoch counts 0.6 0.9 1.0 a MinMaxLoad WC 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 1 21416181 Time \(epoch counts 0.6 b SS2 Figure 4 Space needed at node R to store answer synopsis S A  non-distributed single-stream case In contrast when SS2 is used to set the precision gradient Figure 4b the space requirement is almost an order of magnitude greater This difference in synopsis size occurs because in SS2 frequency counts are only pruned from synopses at leaf nodes so counts for all items that are locally frequent in one or more local streams reach the root node No pruning power is reserved for the root node and therefore no count in S A is ever discarded irrespective of the  value The same situation occurs if Algorithm 2b is used instead of Algorithm 2a This result underscores the importance of setting  1  in order to limit the size of S A  as discussed in Section 2.1 3.4 Communication Load Figure 5 shows our communication measurements under each of our two metrics for each of our three data sets under each of the ve strategies for setting the precision gradient listed in Table 3 First of all as expected the overhead of SS1 is excessive under both metrics Second by inspecting Figure 5a we see that strategy MinRootLoad does indeed incur the least load on the root node R in all cases as predicted by our analysis of Section 2.1.2 Under this metric MinRootLoad outperforms both simple strategies SS1 and SS2 by a factor of 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 INTERNET2 AUCTION BBOARD SS1 SS2 MinRootLoad MinMaxLoad_WC MinMaxLoad_NWC 247k 10k 296k 132k 20k counts transmitted \(per epoch a Load on root node R 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 INTERNET2 AUCTION BBOARD SS1 SS2 MinRootLoad MinMaxLoad_WC MinMaxLoad_NWC 43k    21k 52k   19k 23k   7k counts transmitted \(per epoch b Maximum load on any link Figure 5 Communication measurements k denotes thousands ve or more in all cases measured However MinRootLoad performs poorly in terms of maximum load on any link as shown in Figure 5b because no early elimination of counts for infrequent items is performed and consequently synopses sent from the grand-children of the root node to the children of the root node tend to be quite large As expected MinMaxLoad NWC performs best under that metric on all data sets For the AUCTION data set even though SS2 outperforms MinMaxLoad WC to be expected because of the high  value our hybrid strategy MinMaxLoad NWC is superior to SS2 by a factor of over two For the I NTERNET 2 and BBOARD data sets the improvement over SS2 is more than a factor of three On the negative side total communication not shown in graphs is somewhat higher under MinMaxLoad WC than under SS2 increase of between 7.5 and 49.5 depending on the data set 4 Related Work Most prior work on identifying frequent items in data streams 6 8 9 19 only considers the single-stream case While we are not aware of any work on maintaining frequency counts for frequent items in a distributed stream setting work by Babcock and Olston does adProceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


dress a related problem In the problem is to monitor continuously changing numerical values which could represent frequency counts in a distributed setting The objective is to maintain a list of the top k aggregated values where each aggregated value represents the sum of a set of individual values each of which is stored on a different node The work of assumes a single-le v e l communication topology and does not consider how to manage synopsis precision in hierarchical communication structures using in-network aggregation which is the main focus of this paper The work most closely related to ours is the recent work of Greenwald and Khanna which addresses the problem of computing approximate quantiles in a general communication topology Their technique can be used to nd frequencies of frequent items to within a conìgurable error tolerance The work in focuses on providing an asymptotic bound on the maximum load on any link our result adheres to the same asymptotic bound It does not however address how best to conìgure a precision gradient in order to minimize load which is the particular focus of our work 5 Summary In this paper we studied the problem of nding frequent items in the union of multiple distributed streams The central issue is how best to manage the degree of approximation performed as partial synopses from multiple nodes are combined We characterized this process for hierarchical communication topologies in terms of a precision gradient followed by synopses as they are passed from leaves to the root and combined incrementally We studied the problem of nding the optimal precision gradient under two alternative and incompatible optimization objectives 1 minimizing load on the central node to which answers are delivered and 2 minimizing worst-case load on any communication link We then introduced a heuristic designed to perform well for the second objective in practice when data does not conform to worst-case input characteristics Our experimental results on three real-world data sets showed that our methods of setting the precision gradient are greatly superior to na  ve strategies under both metrics on all data sets studied Acknowledgments We thank Arvind Arasu and Dawn Song for their valuable input and assistance References  R Agra w a l and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules In VLDB  1994  I Akamai T echnologies Akamai http://www akamai.com   A Ak ella A Bharambe M Reiter  and S Seshan Detecting DDoS attacks on ISP networks In PODS Workshop on Management and Processing of Data Streams  2003  A Arasu and G S Manku Approximate quantiles and frequency counts over sliding windows In PODS  2004  B Babcock and C Olston Distrib uted top-k monitoring In SIGMOD  2003  M Charikar  K  Chen and M F arach-Colton Finding frequent items in data streams In International Colloquium on Automata Languages and Programming  2002  E Cohen and M Strauss Maintaining time-decaying stream aggregates In PODS  2003  G Cormode and S Muthukrishnan What s hot and whatês not Tracking frequent items dynamically In PODS  2003  E D Demaine A Lopez-Ortiz and J I Munro Frequency estimation of internet packet streams with limited space In European Symposium on Algorithms  2003  DynaServ er R UBis and R UBBos http://www.cs rice.edu/CS/Systems/DynaServer   eBay Inc eBay  http://www.ebay.com   C Estan and G V a r ghese Ne w directions in traf c measurement and accounting In SIGCOMM  2002  M F ang N Shi v akumar  H  Garcia-Molina R Motwani and J Ulmann Computing iceberg queries efìciently In VLDB  1998  P  B Gibbons and Y  Matias Ne w sampling-based summary statistics for improving approximate query answers In SIGMOD  1998  P  B Gibbons and S T irthapura Estimating simple functions on the union of data streams In Symposium on Parallel Algorithms and Architectures  2001  M Greenw ald and S Khanna Po wer conserving computation of order-statistics over sensor networks In PODS  2004  J Han J Pei G Dong and K W ang Ef cient computation of iceberg queries with complex measures In SIGMOD  2001  Internet2 Internet2 Abilene Netw ork http abilene.internet2.edu   R M Karp S Shenk er  and C H P apadimitriou A simple algorithm for nding frequent elements in streams and bags ACM Trans Database Syst  2003  H.-A Kim and B Karp Autograph T o w ard automated distributed worm signature detection In Proceedings of the 13th Usenix Security Symposium  2004  A Manjhi V  Shkapen yuk K Dhamdhere and C Olston Finding recently frequent items in distributed data streams Technical report 2004 http://www cs.cmu.edu/òmanjhi/freqItems.pdf   G S Manku and R Motw ani Approximate frequenc y counts over data streams In VLDB  2002  Open Source De v elopment Netw ork Inc Slashdot http://slashdot.org  Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


12] S. Fujiwara, J. D. Ullman and R. Motwani, Dynamic Miss-Counting Algorithms: Finding Implications and Similarity Rules with Confidence Pruning. Proceedings of the IEEE ICDE \(San Diego, CA 13] F. Glover  Tabu Search for Nonlinear and Parametric Optimization \(with Links to Genetic Algorithms  Discrete Applied Mathematics 49 \(1-3 14] M. Klemettinen, H. Mannila, P. Ronkainen, H Toivonen, and A. Verkamo, Finding interesting rules from large sets of discovered association rules. Proceedings of the ACM CIKM, International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(Kansas City, Missouri 1999 15] C. Ordonez, C. Santana, and L. de Braal, Discovering Interesting Association Rules in Medical Data. Proceedings of the IEEE Advances in Digital Libraries Conference Baltimore, MD 16] W. Perrizo, Peano count tree technology lab notes Technical Report NDSU-CS-TR-01-1, 2001 http://www.cs.ndsu.nodak. edu /~perrizo classes/785/pct.html. January 2003 17] Ron Raymon, An SE-tree based Characterization of the Induction Problem. Proceedings of the ICML, International Conference on Machine Learning \(Washington, D.C 275, 1993 18] N. Shivakumar, and H. Garcia-Molina, Building a Scalable and Accurate Copy Detection Mechanism Proceedings of the International Conference on the Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries, 1996 19] P. Tan, and V. Kumar, Interestingness Measures for Association Patterns: A Perspective, KDD  2000 Workshop on Post-processing in Machine Learning and Data Mining Boston, 2000 20] H.R. Varian, and P. Resnick, Eds. CACM Special Issue on Recommender Systems. Communications of the ACM 40 1997 Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence  ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


