Association Rule Based Data Mining Agents for Personalized Web Caching Sujaa Rani Mohan, E.K. Park, Yijie Han University of Missouri, Kansas City srmhv7 | ekpark | hanyij }@umkc.edu Abstract Proxy web caching is commonly implemented to decrease web access latency, internet bandwidth costs and origin web server load. We propose a transparent shareable proxy caching methodology in which the proxy caches maintain a continuously optimal performance with 
a significant improvement in the cache hit ratio without requiring any additional overhead at the client or at the routers. This approach allows cachesê to be personalized based on the usersê web access patterns. Our approach employs four light weight intelligent agents in a system of proxy caches which use classification algorithms, data mining techniques and performance monitors to study the clientês web access patterns and configure caches to best serve the clients with available resources. These agents run with predictable run times with an optimal use of 
computer resources 1. Introduction A system of shareable proxy web caches and a web cache server are responsible for caching different types of web objects. The proxy caches, located at the backbone routers switch incoming requests from clients \(using switch lists\ly or more recently based on data mining techniques such as URL \(Universal Resource Locator\mining, web content mining, etc. These techniques add additional overhead to the caching protocols, clients and/or routers 
Our approach has been developed with the following design considerations in mind a Use an existing caching architecture so that ISPês do not need to change the existing costly deployment of proxy caches which is scalable to larger networks b There should be no re-configurations necessary for either the clients or the routers \(transparency c No constraints on physical location of proxy caches 2. Caching Architecture A distributed caching architecture is used to implement 
our personalized caching approach. Figure 1 gives the system deployment for our approach. The web cache server \(Master cache\does not cache anything and does not have any clients attached to it. It manages the system of proxy web caches. The web cache server however has a temporary store of pre-processed log data received from individual proxy caches, the switch list that it maintains and re-configuration information for the proxy caches Proxy caches manned by the same Master cache are shareable and initially configured using default settings 
with clients being randomly assigned to a proxy cache The log data pre-processing agent and cache performance agent are deployed at the proxy web caches.  Most of the processing occurs in the system of proxy web caches and web cache server Cache communication is via simple IP multicasts. All caches \(1Ék\nt inter-proxy cooperation. All client requests are routed through the proxy caches transparent to the clients. The client requests are sent to the appropriate proxies through interception at the backbone routers based on their IP addresses. This 
client to proxy cache switch list is updated and sent to the routers by the classifying agent 3. Multi-Agent System The Multi-agent system comprises of automatic agents that run continuously and semi-automatic agents which only run when another agent triggers them. An overall working of the various agents is shown in the algorithm in Figure 2 and a brief description is given below 3.1. Automatic agents 3.1.1. Log data pre-processing agent 
Every proxy cache logs client requests along with its service status whether the requested Web object was available in the cache: Cache_Hit, Cache_Miss, Cache_Refresh_Hit whether the requested web object was denied though it Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference \(COMPSACê05 0730-3157/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


was present in the cache, etc.\The agent continuously filters the data for required information and rearranges data on a per client basis Figure 1 Multi-agent deployment in proxy cache set up 3.1.2. Cache performance agent The performance of a cache is measured by its ability to serve a clientês request as efficiently as the origin web server. The Cache performance agent is deployed in the proxy caches where the performance is measured for every cache cycle For every pre-determined cache cycle, various performance parameters such as the throughput, mean response time, connection length, cache run-time hit ratio etc. are monitored by studying the cache logs. The cache run-time hit ratio \(%\easures the ratio of the amount of requests served from the cache, as a percentage of total successful requests serviced but only for  the most recent about 10,000\quests serviced \(unlike the cache hit ratio\his will give a more accurate estimate since the cache configuration is changing dynamically A steady decline in the cache performance \(random fluctuations in performance are ignored/filtered as they are usually not the cause for poor cache performance triggers the classifying agent to modify the re-assignment of clients to caches based on updated web access patterns However, if this still does not improve performance then the cache maintenance agent is called to re-configure the proxy caches based on new trends identified by it 3.2. Semi-automatic agents 3.2.1. Classifying agent This agent is triggered by the cache performance agent to assign clients to a proxy cache based on the results obtained from the cache performance agent. The switch list is updated at the backbone router to handle future client requests 3.2.2. Cache maintenance agent This agent is triggered by the cache performance agent and has access to the preprocessed proxy cache web logs. The purpose of this agent is to identify the clientsê frequent web access patterns so that the cache can be re-configured with the rules which satisfy the unique feature sets \(itemsets the clients We use association rules to mine for web access patterns of users using a variation of the Apriori algorithm  ntify fre que nt se que nce patterns it em sets m  the pre-processed cache logs in linear tim  Figure 2 Multi Agent system algorithm A unique Itemset for a client can be defined as the features which define the clientês web object requests such as average size of downloaded files, number of requests made per unit time, etc. Itemsets comprise of items chosen from a set of pre-defined items \(cache configuration parameters\has a support value to determine whether or not to include it to the clientês itemset These patterns have been selected for optimal use of resources and increased cache performance. This architecture can give optimal cache performance for different client types with available resources 5. References  Agr awal, Andreas Ar ning, Toni Bollinger Manish  Mehta, John Shafer, Srikant Ramakrishnan. The Quest Data Mining System Proc. of the 2nd Int'l ACM Conference on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining Portland Oregon, pages 244-249, August 1996  Richard Relue and Xindong Wu. Rule g e neration with th e pattern repository Proc. of the IEEE International Conference on Artificial Intelligence Systems pages 186 Ö 191, September 2002  Maged El-Say ed Carolin a R u iz and Elke A. Rundenstein er FS-Miner: Efficient and Incremental Mining of Frequent Sequence Patterns in Web logs Proc. of the ACM WIDMê04  Washington, DC, pages 12-13, November 2004  1 Among a set of proxy caches \(k+1\ocated at the backbone router of the ISP chose one to be the server\(Master cache 2 n: number of clients for an ISP \(Assume there is only one backbone router for this ISP 3 Initially assign k n  clients to each proxy web cache 4 Wait for one cache cycle 5 Start log_data_pre-processing_agent to continuously filter unwanted data in logs 6 Start cache_performance_agent to continuously monitor cache_performance 7 cache_maintenance_agent is initialized to set default configuration for proxy1Ék 8 for every new cache cycle 9do 10 If cache performance is below threshold 11 then if classifying agent last_call_time  < x ms 12 Call the cache_maintenance_agent 13 else 14 Call the classification_agent 15 else 16 continue Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference \(COMPSACê05 0730-3157/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


The performance of Carma is worse than on-line mining with preprocessing, because the whole mining procedure still has to be carried out repeatedly. If the data is too large to be handled in real-time, the performance of Carma will be even worse. In this situation, Carma itself needs to be performed iteratively 2 3 The proposed CBW,, algorithm 3.1 Algorithm basics As revealed in the literature [4][5], the performance bottleneck of frequent itemsets generation lies in two aspects: the database scan and support counting. Most contemporary efficient algorithms for frequent itemset generation are devoted to attack these two issues. We notice, however, almost of these algorithms suffer from performance degradation as the minimum support decreases; they behave well under large minimum supports, hut as the minimum support decreases, their performances decrease significantly. Unfortunately, in some applications, the minimum support must be specified relatively small to mine interesting pattems from database The effect of a lower support threshold has two facets: On the one hand, much more candidate itemsets are generated and inspected, and on the other band, the cardinalities of maximum frequent itemsets become larger. Therefore, the computation of support counting grows dramatically. To alleviate this problem we have proposed an algorithm called CBW \(Cut the space &amp; employ Both-Ways search  idea is illustrated in Figure 1 Viewing the solution space as a pyramid that contains frequent itemsets located at different levels equal to their cardinalities, we first pursue an appropriate cuffing level a to divide the space into two different parts. After identifying all frequent itemset at this level, we perform a downward search to enumerate all frequent itemsets below the cutting level a and determine their support values, followed by an 3135 upward search to enumerate all frequent itemsets with cardinalities larger than a Itemset Pyramid frequent itemsets Cufting /eve/ a auent 1-ihnesets Figure 1. Concept illustration of CBW The insight behind this paradigm is that no approach based on single algorithmic strategy performs the best in all cases [4][5]. Bottom-up search will suffer too many database scans as well as wasted set enmeration to count the supports of candidates at higher cardinality levels, especially in the case of low support threshold. Top-down search, on the other hand can not utilize the anti-monotone property to prune the search space. Furthermore, according to the investigation in [4], vertical intersection performs much better in counting the support values of candidates with larger cardinality, while horizontal counting favors the opposite situation. All of these suggest hybridizing different algorithmic approaches to attack the itemset mining problem Our paradigm has the following features. First by guessing the appropriate cutting level, we can identify the most promising cardinality to perform downward search. If o w  guess is correct, i.e., most of the itemsets under this level are frequent, then the effectiveness of Apriori pruning is overwhelmed by its cost, Therefore, it is more economic to enumerate all candidate itemsets and count their supports within one 


candidate itemsets and count their supports within one datahase scan. Second, for upward searching frequent itemsets with cardinalities larger than the cutting level the synergy gained from the Apriori pruning and vertical intersection can save lots of unnecessary computations Before carrying out the paradigm shown in Figure 1, we need to determine an appropriate cutting level, which as will be seen later is a crucial factor to the effectiveness of CBW. If the cutting level is too low, unnecessary intersections will happen frequently during upward searching. On the contrary, if the cutting level is too high, the downward search will spend much more time in itemsets enumeration and counting their supports. Therefore, we have to trade the favors between upward search and downward search to fmd an appropriate cutting level. An insightful idea is to pursue the average Cardinality of frequent itemsets, expecting that most of the frequent itemsets will appear in this level. This value, however is impossible to be obtained without knowing the frequent itemsets. We thus adopt a simple heuristic described in the following Defmition 1. Let D be a transaction table and ti the i th transaction. The cutting level a is defmed below where INT[r] denote the nearest integer of r, for r 2 1 and fihj,, be the set of items in f ,  with support larger than minsup. More specifically fihinq= {x I x E f ,  and sup\(x For an illustration, consider the transaction data in Table I .  Assume that minsup = 40%. Then, the frequent 1-itemsets include \(A], {B}, {C}, and {D The cutting level athus is \(3 + 2  + 1 + 4 + 3  + 2  + 3 3 + 3  + 3 Table 1. An example transaction data 3.2 Algorithm detail CBW, is an on-line version of CBW and inherits most of the features of CBW. The main difference is that CBW,. stores the set of frequent 3136 itemsets MF and the set of infrequent a-itemsets MTF according to a presetting minimum suppod threshold prims, and utilizes them to employ a bi-directional search strategy in frequent itemset generation. For this reason, CBW.. does not undergo repeating the whole procedure as minsup is tuned above or below pri.w The basic process of CBW,. is described below Case 1. minsup &lt; p r i m We perform the CBW.. in this case as follaws First, we collect the frequent a-itemsets stored in .W and the infrequent a-itemsets stored in MFm,  and perform the downward search. The search strategy is illustrated in Figure 2. For each transaction, only its subsets that are subsets of the infrequent itemsets in M F c  need to he generated and counted. After finding all of the frequent itmesets below cutting level a, we then perform the upward search starting from the frequent itemsets in level a Figure 2. Searching strategy of CBW,. with minsup lower thanprims Case 2. minsup &gt;prim In this case, there is no need to generate the frequent itemsets. All of the qualified frequent itemsets have been materialized in MF. We only have to filter those with support lower than minsup Detail description of the CBW,, algorithm is given in Figures 3,4,  and 5, where sup\(X support of an itemset X and T denotes the set of fidlisfs For an illustration, let us consider Table 1 agrin Assume that a is 3 and prims is 3. For the case that minsup &lt; prims, as shown in Figure 6, we assume minsup = 2 


minsup = 2 Input: The transaction database D and minimum Output: The set of frequent itemsets F 1. if minsup &lt; prims then 2. AF = \(4 sup v Y ~ M F a n d I v = a 3. DF = Dwnsearch\(0, A F ,  a, minsup 4. UF = Upsearch\(AF, minusup 5. F = D F u U F 6. else 7 8. endif 9. returnF support minsup F =  \(4 X E MFandsup\(X Figure 3. Algorithm CBW 1. for i = 1 to do 2 3 4 5. x.count 6. end for 7. DF=\(XI sup\(X 8. retnrnDF scan the i-th transaction ti delete the items in tibut not in .aF for each subset X of ti and 2 2 5 a do Figure 4. Procedure Dwnsearch 2 3. k=a,Fk=F 4. repeat transform borizontal data D into t-id lists 5 .  w 6. Ck= the set of new candidate k-itemsets generated from FM 7. for eachXg ck do 8 9 IO. endfor 1 I 13. unti lFk=O 14. return UF perform bit-vector intersection on X compute the support ofX, sup\(X Fk = \(4 sup\(X 12. UF = UF U Fk Figure 5.  Procedure Upsearch The infrequent a-itemsets are {A, B, C}, {A, B E}, \(A, C, D A, C, D frequent itemsets with cardinality of a are {A, B, D B, C, D}, \(B, C, E C, D, E first perform downward search for frequent 3-, 2 itemsets, obtaining itemsets {A, B, D 3137 I Figure 6. Find out all frequent itemsets from the database in Table 1 with lower minsup using  CBW 4 Empirical evaluations To evaluate the performance of CBW,,, we compared it with CBW on two synthetic data sets T10.14.DIOOK and T10.14.D200K, which were generated using the IBM data generator [2]. The presetting minimum support, prims, was specified as 0.5%. All experiments were performed on a HP LH6000R workstation with 1GB RAM and 18GB HD running Windows 2000 Server Two different cutting levels, 3 and 4, were used The results are shown in Figures 6 and 7. It can be Observed 1. A good cutting level is critical to the performance of CBW and CBW,,, cutting at levels below or above the best value yields not 


only poor performance but also significant performance degradation as minsup decreases 2. When minsup t prims, there is no frequent itemset generation for CBW,, and so CBW clearly outperforms CBW, with an ,order of magnitude faster When minsup cprims, the MFa scheme makes CBW,. again beat CBW but the performance gap decreases as the minsup decreases. This is because that there are more infrequent itemsets at the cutting level becoming frequent, and so CBW,. spends more time in upward searching 3 X-CBWon, cl=4 -X-CBW, c l 4 A- CBWon, cl=3 + CBW, ck3 100 80 3 60 p 40 h 0 B zn 0 1 1.00% 0.75% 0.50% 0.25 minsup Figure 6. Execution times of CBW,. and CBW using TI 0.14.Dl OOK 3138 1.00% 0.75% 0.50% 0.25 minsup Figure 7. Execution times of CBW.. and CBW using T10.14.D200K 5 Conclusions In this paper, we have adopted the concept of preprocessing and materialization to store the frequent itemsets over a presetting minsup and the infrequent itemsets, with cardinality of a. Utilizing these materialized itemsets, we have proposed the CBW algorithm to facilitate the process of employing consecutive mining queries with different threshold!; to obtain the best mining rules. When the user-specified minsup is larger than prims, CBW,. can generate all frequent itemsets immediately by scanning the stored frequent itemsets. On other hand, when the threshold is smaller thanprims, CBW,. also can responds to users efficiently by utilizing an auxiliary set of infrequenl E itemsets, without repeating the whole mining procedure. Our CBW.. algorithm has ht:en incorporated into an online multidimensional association rule mining system currently under development [6]. In the future, we will incorporate into CBW,, the taxonomy information and extend it to allow multiple minimum support specification References l] C.C. Agganval and P.S. Yu, "Online generation of association rules," IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, pp. 402-41 1 1998 R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algorithms for mining association rules," in Proceedings of the 20th VLDB Conference, pp. 487499, 1994 2 3] C. Hidber, "Online association rule mining," in Proceedings of the 1999 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management af Data, 1999, pp. 145-156 4] I. Hipp, U. Gnntzer, and G. Nakhaeizadeh Algorithms for association rule m i n i n e general survey and comparison," SIGKDD Explorations, Vol. 2,2000, pp. 58-64 5] J. Hipp, U. Guntzer, and G. Nakhaeizadeh Mining association rules: Deriving a superior 


Mining association rules: Deriving a superior algorithm by analyzing today's approaches," in Proceedings of 4th European Symposium an Principles of Data Mining and Knowledge Dixovery \(PKDDOO 6] W.Y. Lin, J.H. Su and M.C. Tseng, "OMARS The framework of an online multidimensional association rules mining system," in Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Electronic Business, Taipei, Taiwan, pp 216-225,2002 A. Savasere, E. Omiecinski, and S. Navathe, "An efficient algorithm for mining association rules in large databases," in Proceedings of the 24th VLDB Conference, pp. 432-444,1995 7 XI J.H. Su and W.Y. Lin, "CBW. An efficient algorithm for frequent itemset mining," in Proceedings of the 37th Annual Hmvaii Intemaiional Conference on System Sciences, pp 2004 9] H. Toivoneo, "Sampling large databases for association rules," in Proceedings of the 22 VLDB Conference Munbai, India, pp. 134-145 1996 lo] M. Wojciechowski and M. Zakrzewicz, "Itemset materializing for fast mining of association rules," in Proceedings of the 2nd East European Symposium Advances in Databases and Information Systems, ADBIS98, Poznan, Poland Lecture Notes in Computer Science 1475 Springer, 1998 3139 pre></body></html 


Model and SVM Proceedings of The 3rd Asia-Pacific Bioinformatics Conference January 2005, pp. 117-129 14 G a r d y J  L Spe nc e r C W a ng K Es te r M T u s n a d y   G.E., Simon, I., Hua, S., deFays, K., Lambert, C., Nakai K. and Brinkman, F.S.L., çPSORT-B: improving protein subcellular localization prediction for Gram-negative bacteria Nucleic Acids Research 31, 2003, pp. 3613-17 15 C h a n g  C C and L i n  C J  L IBS V M  A L i b r ar y f o r  Support Vector Machinesé, 2001. Software available at http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


on the intention to use self- and e-assessment center as well as the influence of PQI, PCS and PTS on PU it might represent a single example for a specific economy, country or cultural region . There might be differences for the intention of different informnation systems with different settings. Future research should discuss this issue more detailed  Furthermore our questionnaire was just answered by large-scale corporations in Germany. So our results might not be directly transferred to small and medium-sized enterprises  In addition, as we collected our data from participants at the same time using the same survey our results may be affected by common method varian  6. Conclusion  Self-assessment and e-assessment as online games in staff recruiting are a valuable solution for companies to support on the one side their employer branding activities and on the other side the selection of the favored candidate. The case study of our papers shows that companies can generate more qualified applications and concurrently save time and money. Based on these findings our empirical research with 191 of the Top-1000 companies of Germany provide statistical evidence that perceived quality improvements, perceived cost savings and perceived time savings are the main reasons beside perceived usefulness and ease of use why companies intend to use self- and e-assessment in their recruiting processes  References   Bago zzi  R  P   T h e Ro l e  of M easu r e m en t i n T h eo ry Construction and Hypothesis Testing: Toward a Holistic Model", in: Conceptual and Theoretical Developments in Marketing, O.C. Ferrell, S.W. Brown and C.W. Lamb eds.\ago, pp. 15-32, 1979 2 Ba g o z z i R  P  a n d Y i  Y   O n t h e Ev a l ua tio n of  Structural Equation Models", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science \(16\pp 74-94, 1988 3 Ba rtra m  D Testing on the Internet: Issues Challenges and Opportunities in the field of Occupational Assessments in: D. Bartram, and R.K. Hambleton \(eds Computer-Based Testing and the Internet: Issues and Advances, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Chichester, England 2006 4 B r o w n, S  A  a nd Ve nk a t e s h V  Model of Adoption of Technology in Households: A Baseline Model Test and Extension Incorporating Household Life Cycle MIS Quarterly \(29:3\pp.399-426, 2005  Bu zzetto M o r e N A   and A l ad e A  J   Best Practices in e-Assessment Journal of Information Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 251-269 6 Ca lig iuri P  M., a n d P h i llips J.M An application of self-assessment realistic job previews to expatriate assignments The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 2003, Vol. 14, No. 7, pp. 11021116 7 Ca rm ine s E. G  Ze lle r R A  1979 Re lia bil ity a nd Validity Assessment. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage Publications 8 Ca s c io, W  F A pplie d P s y c ho log y in H u m a n Re s ourc e  Management, Prentice Hall, Englewood, Cliffs, NJ, 1998 9 Cha p p e ll, D Ea t oug h V D a v i e s M.N  O  a n d  Griffiths, M EverQuest It s Just a Comupter Game Right? An Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis of Online Gaming Addicition International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction, Vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 205-216 10 C h in, W  W  T he P a rtia l L e a s t Squa re s A pproa c h to  Structural Equation Modelling", in: Modern methods for business research, G.A. Marcoluides \(ed.\, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, London, pp. 295-336, 1998 11 Ch in, W  W  F re que ntly A s k e d Q u e s tions  Partial Least Squares & PLS-Graph", 2000 12 hill J. R a n d G ilbe r t, A  A P a ra dig m  f o r Developing Better Measures of Marketing Constructs  Journal of Marketing Research 15 \(2\pp. 77-94, 1979 13 C o n nol ly T a nd Sta n s f ie ld M  Using GamesBased eLearning Technologies in Overcoming Difficulties in Teaching Information Systems Journal of International Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 459-476 14 D a v i s  F. D   1 9 89  P e r c e i v e d U s ef ulne s s  P e r c e i v e d Ease of Use and User Acceptance of Information Technology. MIS Quarterly, 13:3, pp. 319-339 15 D o ll, W  J A  H e ndric k s on, a n d X  D e ng  Using Davis s Perceived Usefulness and Ease-of-use Instruments for Decision Making: A Confirmatory and Multigroup Invariance Analysis  Decision Sciences 29\(4\, 1998, pp 839-869 16 Eis e n h a r dt, K   M. \(1 98 9 ilding T h e o rie s f r om Ca s e  Study Research, Academy of Management Review, 14, 4 532-550 17  Fa e r be r, F  K e im T a nd W e itz e l T  An Automated Recommendation Approach to Personnel Selection  In: Proceedings of the 2003 Americas Conference on Information Systems; Tampa 18  Fe ng M H e ff e r na n, N  T a nd K o e d ing e r, K  R  Addressing the Testing Challenge with a Web-Based EAssessment System that Tutors as it Assesses  Proceedings of the 15th international conference on World Wide Web, Edinburgh, Scotland, 2006, pp. 307-316 19  For n e ll, C a n d L a rc ke r, D F E v a lua ting S t ruc tura l  Equitation Models with Unobservable Variables and Measurement Errors", Journal of Marketing Research, 18 pp. 39-50, 1981 20 G e org e  D I., a nd Sm ith, M.C An Empirical Comparison of Self-Assessment and Organizational Assessment in Personnel Selection Public Personnel Management, 1990, Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 175-190 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


21 G r iff iths, M.D., Da v i e s  M.N.O., a nd Cha p p e ll, D  Breaking the Stereotype: The Case of Online Gaming  CyberPsychology & Behavior. January 1, 2003, Vol 6, No 1, pp. 81-91 22 Hu l l an d  J U se o f P a rtial L e a s t Sq u a res \(P L S  in   Strategic Management Research: A Review of Four Recent Studies. Strategic Management Journal, 20 \(4\, pp. 195204, 1999 23 J o ne s L a nd Fle t c h e r C  Self-assessment in a selection situation: An evaluation of different measurement approaches Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 2002, Vol. 75, pp. 145-161 24 K e im T  a nd W e itz e l  T  Strategies for Hiring IT Professionals: An Empirical Analysis of Employer and Job Seeker Behavior on the IT Labor market In: Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS\ulco, Mexico 25 L a um e r S Ec k h a r dt, A a nd W e itz e l T   Recruiting IT Professionals in a Virtual World In: Proceedings of the 12th Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems PACIS 2008\uzhou, China 2 L e e I   The Architecture for a Next-Generation Holistic E-Recruiting System Communications of the ACM, Vol. 50, No. 7, 81-85, 2007 27 L e v i ne E.L Flory  A   a nd A s h, R.A  Selfassessment in personnel selection Journal of Applied Psychology, 1977, Vol. 62, No. 4, pp. 428-435 28  Ma lho t ra Y., a n d G a lle tta D. F Extending the Technology Acceptance Model to Account for Social Influence Theoretical Bases and Empirical Validation  Proceedings of the 32 nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2 Lo u H Lu o  W  and St r ong D  2 00 0   Perceived Critical Mass Effect on Groupware Acceptance  European Journal of Information Systems 9\(2\p.91-103 30 N u nna lly J  C., a nd Be rns t e i n, I. H  Psychometric Theory 3rd ed.\ McGraw-Hill, New York, 1994 31 Phil lips  J.M  Effects of Realistic Job Previews on Multiple Organizational Outcomes: A Meta-Analysis  Academy of Management Journal, 1998, Vol. 41, No. 6 pp. 673-690 3  P o d s ako f f  P   M    M acKen zie S  B  L ee J Y  Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003\. Common Method Bias in Behavioral Research: A Critical Review of the Literature and Recommended Remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, Vol. 88, No. 5, pp. 879-903 33 Ri dg w a y  J Mc Cus k e r, S., a nd P e a d D   Literature Review of e-Assessment Nesta Future Lab, Bristol, UK 2004 3 Ry n e s S  L   Recru i t m en t   Job Choice, and Post-Hire Consequences in: M.D. Dunnette, and L.M. Hough \(eds Handbook of Industrial and Organizational Psychology Consulting Psychologists Press, Palo Alto, CA, 1991 35 Ste i nk ue hle r   C.A  Learning in massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the 6th international conference on Learning sciences, Santa Monica, California, 2004 36 U nde rw ood J  D  M Ba ny a r d P.E. a n d D a v i e s  M.N.O Students in digital worlds: Lost in Sin City or reaching Treasure Island BJEP Monograph Series II Number 5 - Learning through Digital Technologies Volume 1, Number 1, 1 July 2007 , pp. 83-99 36  Ve nk a t e s h V M o r r i s  M  G  un d A c k e r m a nn P  L   2000 A Longitudinal Field Investigation of Gender Differences in Individual Technology Adoption DecisionMaking Processes Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Vol. 83, Nr. 1, S. 33-60 3 W e i ss E  A    Self-Assessment Communications of the ACM, 1990, Vol. 33, No. 11, pp. 110-132 38 W a rd, M G r uppe n, L a n d Re g e hr, G  Measuring Self-assessment: Current State of the Art Advances in Health Sciences Education, 2002, Vol. 7, pp. 63-80 39 Y i n, R. K  20 03 s e Stu d y R e s e a r c h D e s i g n a nd Methods, Sage Publications, Inc., Thousand Oaks, London New Dehli Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


