Characterization of 3G Data-plane Traffi c and Application towards Centralized Control and Management for Software Defined Networking 
Abstract 
Long Qian, Bin Wu, Renbo Zhang, Weiyu Zhang School of Computer Science Beijing University of Posts and Communications Beijing, China wubin@bupt.edu.cn Min Luo Shannon Lab Huawei Technologies Santa Clara, US min.ch.luo@huawei.com 
With the wide deployment of 3G/4G cellular data networks there is a tremendous growth of mobile Internet access worldwide. We conduct a detailed measurement study about user behaviors, application usage and location patterns 
 
of users. We present a methodology that correlates different network attributes and user information together. For user behaviors we classify all users into four groups by time division and investigate the behaviors of different types of users. For example, we find that midnight users consume tremendous network bandwidth. We categorize applications into several groups and provide insights of each type of application usage about up/down flow user numbers and user request times. We also analyze the location information of users that reveal the relationship between network usages with user mobility. Our study successfully provides network operational insights with the details of network usage or the user remarkable behaviors 
that can help network planners and operators to plan and adaptively adjust network capacity assignment and flow or application management. Most importantly it will help service providers to reduce their operating cost and offer more flexible Keywords data-plane; 3G networks; User behavior; App usage 
and variety of services to meet the needs of todayês mobile 
clients without the ne ed of increasing capacity in congested areas. Finally, our analysis will enable much more efficient routing and resource allocation management applications in the recent endeavor for software defined networking that will put such responsibility into the logically centralized controllers  
behaviors; centralized control plane; software defined networking \(SDN 
I I NTRODUCTION Third-generation and fourth-generation mobile networks are becoming an increasingly important component of the global telecommunications infrastructure. The functional complexity inherited from the cellular paradigm coupled with the openness of the TCP/IP world [1   T h er e  are many types of devices that enable mobile Internet access such as tablet computers, laptops with WiFi or attached data cards, and smartphones. On the other hand, the number and popularity of mobile applications has been rising dramatically due to the accelerating rate of adoption of smartphones or pads. For example, Android has 150K apps 
and 350K daily activations [2  More ov e r   3G d e ploy m e nts  continue to evolve: network equipment undergo regular software and hardware upgrades to increase capacity and add 
significantly with the broad acceptance of new applications [3  C o m p are d  t o  traditional wire networks, cellular networks not only have relatively limited data-plane link capacity, but also have higher control-plane overhead that increases the loading of the network core [4    The emergence of software defined networking \(SDN has sparked significant interest in rethinking classical approaches to network architecture and design. By providing 
new features, usersê behavior changes 
a well-defined programming interface to the network \(e.g Open-Flow [5   SD N s e pa ra tes d ata f o rw ard i n g w ith th e  control logic that traditionally resides inside individual routing or switching devices, and centralize the routing and other control in the centralized controller [6  a n d r unni ng other management applications on top of the controller. On the other hand, Network management involves two important stages: \(1 measuring the network and then \(2 adjusting the control of the network accordingly. While there have been many efforts on designing the right APIs for network control, little thought has gone into considering measurement and analysis. Since control and measurement are two important halves of network management, it is 
important to measure and analysis the traffic characterization of network From the perspectives of network operators, it is important to understand the traffic patterns of different applications and usage pattern s. Since HTTP is the dominant protocol in mobile Internet applications, we specifically study characterization of user behaviors and applications in such an environment. Understan ding those characterization and traffic patterns can shed light on how to provision network resources, and enable much more efficient routing in the recent endeavor for software defined networking that will put such responsibility into the logically centralized 
controllers. These findings can also suggest that cloud platforms that host mobile application servers leverage distinct usage patterns in classes of apps to maximize the utilization of their resources In this paper, we conduct an in-depth measurement analysis on the traffic of different users and applications of a commercial 3G UMTS network deployed in a southern city in China. At the core of 3G network, we collect and analyze a 24x7 hour span IP data packets, which correspond to dataplane. In contrast to previous work, we use signatures based on HTTP headers to distinguish the traffic from different 
2013 IEEE International Congress on Big Data 978-0-7695-5006-0/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/BigData.Congress.2013.44 278 


 userês     
002 002 002 
apps. Due to the format of User-Agent in HTTP headers when mobile apps use standard platform APIs, this technique gives us the ability to gather statistics about each individual app, not just categories of network traffic characterized by port number. We identify more than 2M users per day on average, as well as different IP applications. The extensive scales of our datasets allow us to conduct comprehensive analysis. In summary, we make the following three contributions We analyze the dataset in four parts: overview, user behaviors, application characteristics and locations. We compare different day s network usages and reveal the common scenarios and differences. We category users into four groups by time span division and make the observations in user behaviors of each kind. We conduct a classification in application types by distinguishing the content type. Correlating the application types to other attributes like data flow and id, our study shows the key difference of application services in several perspectives Furthermore, we identify that users who use mobile Internet service in more different locations will have more traffic contribution and thus more consumption of network bandwidth. By clustering base stations, we present some features of location from flow and account aspects When we monitor a large volume of traffic data for detailed statistics, a long period or a large-scale network, it is difficult to handle Tera or Peta-byte traffic data with a single server. Our data preprocess is implemented by using Hive, a data warehouse system for Hadoop that facilitates easy data summarization and the analysis of large datasets stored in distributed Hadoop compatible file systems. This allows us to parallelize the data extraction and group operation Moreover, we use Mahout to implement parallel data mining method like K-means clustering algorithm The data set that we use to study traffic characterization is significantly more diverse geographically and in user base than previous studies. It converse hundreds of thousands of smart phones in this 3G network. This allows us to make more generalizable conclusions about smartphone usage patterns  The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews related work on 3G traffic measurement. In section 3 we present our traffic analysis framework. In section 4 we describe the datasets and preprocessing. Section 5 presents our findings from the datasets. Finally, a few concluding remarks are given in Section 6 II R ELATED W ORK There have been a small number of studies focusing on Internet traffic in 3G mobile networks. Svoboda et al. [7   analyze various aspects of GPRS and UMTS traffic using anonymous header traces. They study traffic volume per user and protocol mix. In terms of protocol mix, they find that HTTP is the dominant protocol with 40 60 % of traffic They discover that the global traffic composition is relatively stable on a daily basis, with some moderate differences between weekends and working days. Heikkinen et al. [8  analyze P2P usage from passive UMTS header traces in Finland from 2005 2007. Web traffic accounts for 57 79 of bytes from mobile hand-held devices, email for 10 24 and P2P is not noticeable. However, they point out that a notable growing trend for computer-based P2P file sharing traffic is visible in GSM/UMTS networks. Ridouxet al. [9  collects data from a CDMA2000 network, and compares the similarities and differences with wire line data traffic Williamson et al. [10 analy z e pa cket d ata  cal l event t r a ce s  from a CDMA2000 net-work from 2004. They focus their analysis on link-layer behavior, session properties, and user mobility. Their results also identify power-law properties in several traffic characteristics Several studies have analyzed TCP performance and low-level traffic characteristics in GPRS and CDMA data networks [1  Oth e r stu d ies a n aly ze th e c o n tent  re qu est e d  o r  available for mobile devices Kilpi and Lassila [12 analy ze  the round-trip times of TCP flow data collected at a GPRS/UMTS network. Using data from 2000, Adya et al 1 ana ly ze th e Web s erv er l o g s  of a m ajor c o m m ercia l s it e  and study the requests of mobile clients. They find that stock quotes, news, and yellow pages were the most commonly accessed content in their traces. The DARWIN group collects IP packets at a GPRS/UMTS core network, and analyzes various issues such as TCP performance [1  T h ey find that the frequency of re-transmission events is a powerful indicator for the specific type of bottleneck under study, and it can be used to provide early warning about future occurrences of similar events. Verkasalo [15 stu d ie s  how Symbian phone features are used by instrumenting the handset. He finds that the camera feature and games are the most common multimedia applications. Timmins et al. [16  use active measurements to crawl the Web for sites offering specialized content for mobile devices Several studies analyze web-application usage and data traffic behavior in 3G networks. Trestian et al. [1  ana l y z es mobility and web-application usage in a 3G network from a metropolitan area. They characterize web-application usage by counting the number of HTTP request and find that social networking, music, and e-mail are the most common web However, they do not asses who many users utilize a particular application. Huang et al. [18  p r o p o se a t o ol cal le d  3GTest, which runs on thousands of smart phones over a wide geographic coverage. Each 3GTest-enabled device generates probe traffic to measure the network performance They also design a set of experiments to quantify how application performance, in particular web browsing, is impacted by various factors, and where the performance bottleneck is. Falaki et al. [19 stu d y th e sm art  ph on e t r af f i c  and identify the differences of user behavior based on the traces collected from a number of individual devices. They find that browsing contributes most traffic, lower layer protocols have a high overhead due to small transfer sizes and packet loss is the primary bottleneck for traffic throughput. Gember et al co m p ar e ha nd hel d a n d n o n handheld devices in a campus WiFi network. They study of the differences in the content and flow characteristics of 
279 


SDN-enabled Network Controller Services Modules Device Management Routing Topology Link Discovery Qos Traffic Engineering Traffic Analysis 
Big Data Preprocessing Analysis Methods Library Combination and Mining Visualization Physical and Virtual Network Infrastructure  User behaviors Application Location Overview Figure 1 
Traffic classification Traffic Clustering 
002\003 002\003 002\003 002\003 
handheld versus non-handheld traffic. Xu et al. [21 analy ze  the IP data traffic collected inside a tier-1 network core, and study the usage behavior of a variety of smart phone applications from the operator's perspective. They identify traffic from distinct marketplace apps based on HTTP signatures and present aggregate results on their spatial and temporal prevalence, locality, and correlation. He et al. [2  analyzes the data/control-plane performance of different device types using massive traces collected from the core of a 3G UMTS city-wide network. They present a methodology that studies the interactions of different data/control-plane datasets, and make several key observations from their analysis. They well used the control-plane dataset but what they find is lack of location information and their dataset is from 2010 which cannot match the nowadays mobile network situation very well. Our work complements the prior studies by also analyzing the data-plane performance Specifically, we study data traffic behavior in HTTP level including location information and our dataset is very new III T RAFFIC A NALYSIS F RAMEWORK In Internet traffic measurement and analysis, flowbased traffic monitoring methods are widely deployed throughout Internet Service Pr oviders \(ISPs\ because the volume of processed data is reduced and many convenient flow statistics tools are availab le. After storing flow data from flow probes on the local disk, we move the raw flow files to the cluster file system, HDFS. As the current Hadoop mapper supports only text files for the input format we convert flow files to text-format ones. As the size of text-format flow files is much larger than that of binaryformat ones, we need to support binary flow files to the inputs for Mapper Analysis methods library mainly contains classification clustering and association rules the process to find out what type of application protocols used by th e end users, is an essential component for network management. The traditional method is port-based, which inspects the transport-layer port number fields in packet header s and then identifies the application-layer protocols acco rding to the well-known port. However, this method has become increasingly inaccurate. Deep packet insp ection \(DPI\ can either match signature patterns in packet payloads or validate applicationlayer protocol message formats. However, DPI approach has high computational overheads and requires some up-to-date knowledge of the target protocols beforehand BLINC[23 introduces a new approach for traffic classification. The basic idea of BLINC is to look at the communication pattern generated by a particular hos t, and to compare it to the behavior patterns representin g different applications BLINC is able to accurately associate hosts with the services they provide or use. Therefore, we can identify new appearing applications such as P2P and VoIP in order to understand the make up of traffic in application level the aim of cluster anal ysis is to partition a set of objects into groups or clusters in such a way that profiles of objects in the same group are similar, whereas the profiles of objects in di fferent clusters are distinct Generally speaking, cluster analysis methods are of two types: hierarchical and partitioning methods K-means clustering [24 is a clus tering  an alysis algorithm that groups objects based on their feature v alues into K disjoint clusters In this paper we use K-means clustering method to partition users based on their network usage patterns As input to the data mining process, we make use of flow records. In this context, a flow is defined as a unidirectional stream of IP packets identified by a common IP five-tuple \(protocol type, source IP address, destination IP address, source port, destination port\part from the IP five-tuple information, a flow record contains statistical information such as the number of packets and bytes observed in a certain period of time. First, flow records are classified according to the trans port protocol and predefined port numbers which are typical for commonly used services Distinguishing flows by their protocol and service-specific port numbers thus allows applying the K-means clustering algorithm separately for different services identified by their protocol, port\ pairs. Sep arately for each class, we aggregate and transform flow records into datasets for 
Analysis Framework To better show our analysis process and the position in SDN network we here put Figure 1 to make an illustration first. The whole system cons ists of physical and virtual network infrastructure and SDN-enabled network controller layers. The real network state and information are generated in physical and virtual network infrastructure and our analysis dataset is just a s ubset of them. SDN controller such as the Smart Openflow Controller \(SOX  centralizes the network intelligence and maintains a global view of the network. They offer a flexible software defined network management in a simplicity and reliability way The main work in this paper is about a traffic analysis to support the services modules in the controller  The main analysis components involve: big data preprocessing, analysis methods library, combination and mining and visualization 
A Big Data Preprocessing B Analysis methods library C Combination and Mining 
280 


Table 1 Figure 2 
monitoring we are able to capture all mobile usersê data behaviors and URLs distribution. This èup to dateê feature 
D Visulization A Datasets B Preprocessing C Limitations 
Attribute Name Description 
equally spaced time intervals considering the start time of each flow For data mining to be effe ctive, it is important to include the human in the data exploration process and combine the flexibility, creativity, and general knowledge of the human with the enormous storage capacity and the computational power of computers. The basic idea of visual data exploration is to present th e data in some visual form allowing the human to get insight into the data, draw conclusions, and directly interact with the data. Visualizing the clustering results can help to quickly assimilate this information and provide insights that support and complement textual descriptions or statistical summaries For example, we quickly wish to know how well defined are the clusters, how different are they from each other, what is their size, and do the observ ations belong strongly to the cluster or only marginally  The following sections will analyze the dataset in four aspects: overview, user beha viors, application service and locations. All of what we do is to make some useful analysis results to support the SDN controller managements and decision IV D ATASETS AND P REPROCESSING We capture traffic in data plane from a commercial city-wide 3G UMTS network in a metropolitan in China The simplified topology of the 3G UMTS network we consider is pictured in Figure 2. Based on GN signaling traffic. By using the optical equipment we create a traffic image from the GGSN. And then we apply a deep packet inspection \(DPI\odule to parse the data and finally generate user access data traffic logs. The original data set contains 32 attributes including phone number, capture time IMEI \(SV\, URL, content type, up flow, down flow, location etc. The volume of data set is about 1.8T and time span is covering 7 days. To simplifying the analysis and focus on some important problems we extract part of the all 32 attributes. The vital attributes that we analyze later is shown in Table 1 The 7-day span of data traffic set is collected from March 11, 2013 to March 17, 2013. Considering the time of data set we can see that this data set can reflect the latest user will bring us valuable nowadays data traffic using situation We expect that the dramatic growth of the mobile network development, continuing upgrade of Smartphone operating system and evolution of web service demand the data set of real-time  It is possible to find more interesting result from this data set than what we have done in this paper because the attributes consist solid information and each other has a potential correlation that can predict some other meaningful regular pattern Our data preprocess is implemented by using Hive. Hive is a data warehouse system for Hadoop that facilitates easy data summarization and the analysis of large datasets stored in Hadoop compatible file systems. Hive provides a mechanism to project structure onto this data and query the data using a SQL-like language called HiveQL. This allows us to parallelize the data extraction and group operation. And Hive dramatically reduces the amount and difficulty of our work in processing with data set of big volume. Our Hadoop platform consists of one namenode and nine datanodes Each server has 16 CPU cores and 48G memory. The average time of Hive operatio n is less than ten minutes  To utilize the benefits of Hive in dealing with massive data we implement five different operators by HiveQL Select, Groupby, Sort, Count and Sum. These basic operators are well covering the main data processing and save our much time and effort One limitation of our work is that we have not standard criteria to classify the service type And it is also difficult to classify user behaviors by URL patterns since URLs are various and some of them are presented as IP addresses that hard to decrypt. Another limitation is that we only have one data set and are lack of info rmation about control-plane information and detail of network framework like topology and traffic strategy. This makes us unable to go deep in giving suggestions to network operators from our observations and conclusions 
Description of part attributes of data set A simplified architectural view of a 3G UMTS network 
 
CAPTURETIME Start Time. Format: YYYY MM DD HH24:MI:SS.xxxxxxxxx MSISDN Mobile Subscriber International ISDN/PSTN number \(Phone Number URL Error rate is less than 0.001 CONTENTLEN The length of the content CONTENTTYPE The type of the content RESPDELAY Response delay. Unit is a millisecond DURATION The duration of a link FLOW The sum of up flow and down flow UPFLOW The up flow of a link DOWNFLOW The down flow of a link LAC location area code CI CI/SAC: Cell Identity/Service Area Code RATTYPE RAT Type. è1ê is 2G, è2ê is 3G 
Preprocess Implementation 
281 


Time Span Description 
A Overview B User Behaviors Characteristics C Application Characteristics 
1:00 a.m. ~ 7:00 a.m Midnight user 7:00 a.m. ~ 2:00 p.m morning user 2:00 p.m. ~ 6:00 p.m afternoon user 6:00 p.m. ~ 1:00 a.m evening user 
Figure 3 Figure 4 Figure 5 Table 2 Table 3  
User number \(per hour\r three days Average request times per userover three days  We compare user number and average user request times variation trend over three days: March 15, March 16 and March 17 in 2013. March 15 is Friday and March 16, 17 are weekend of China work tradition. From Figure 3 we can see from 0:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. user number trends are correlative over three days but from afternoon to 24:00 the user number trends are not consistent. Therefore user number trend can be different in each day.  We also compare the average user request number in Figure 4 and find the change of request num ber trends are similar over three different days  In the following analysis, we only focus on the 1-day traces on March 17, 2013 for analysis simplicity purpose  To classify users is an effective method not only can reduce the data set volume but also more significantly discover user behaviors, which can be meaningful to understand the whole network utilization. However, there is not only one criterion to catego rize users and it is hard to choose the best one Therefore, we put users into four categories: morning us ers, afternoon users, evening users and midnight users by dividing the 24 hours into four splits According to Figure 5 we choos e a series of time spans and the break point is the time with big change of the user number. Table 2 presents the details User number distribtuion in one day Time spans of user categories Description of content types  
Content Type Description 
V M EASUREMENT R ESULTS Since we have not only one-day data set we first give a general overview of our all capt ured data traffic. Beside the traffic volume distribution in each day time we also focus on other attributes such as user numbers, request numbers and response delay. Only one or two attributes are not convincing enough that traffic distributions of each day are stable. The interest of what we are looking for is more in the difference than the common ground Figure 6 presents behaviors of four different kinds of users. Picture \(a\ows the request number per user of four kinds. We can see evening us ers have the highest average request number than others. Ignoring the number of midnight users, we can discover that midnight users are frequent network user. Users in afternoon type have the lowest average request number and this result conform to our intuition that people are usually busy and tire in the afternoon. Picture \(b\ the total up flow and down flow usage patterns in different types of users and otherwise picture \(c\he average of up flow and down flow usage. The interesting finding is that the midnight users have second highest down flow but the up flow is not remarkable difference with other three categories of users We can infer that midnight user has common up flow usage behaviors and particular high down flow usage in per user dimension From the dataset, we can get all users URLs they have visited and the content type of a certain user request. In this paper we characterize the applications by classify the content type. The content type is MIME types, which are specified in two parts. The top-level media type declares the 
Application The application content type allows for the transmission of application data or binary data effectively allowing for specific handling of application data Image The image content type allows standardized image files to be Text The text content type is used for message content that is primarily in human readable text character format Audio The audio content type allows standardized audio files to be included in messages Video The video content type allows standardized video files to be included in messages Multipart Multi part Content Type headers identify multipart messages Other The CONTENTTYPE attribute is unable to put into any types above 
  
 
282 


Figure 6 Figure 7 Figure 8 
  shows that during day time the number of users visited only one loca tion account for 75% of total user number. 18% users visited two locations and only 5 
general type of media, and the subtype defines the specific format for that media. Here we select the top-level media type and category the application into seven types. Table 3 shows the application types considered in our analysis  In Figure 7 \(a\, we can see image and application types occupy the most part of down flow. Text and video types account for 10% and 6%. Compared with \(a\he distribution of up flow is very differe nt in \(b\pplication type dominates the majority of the up flow. Text, image and other types each accounts for nearly 20% up flow. In Figure 7 \(c\, each segment means the number of users that use a certain application type a day. In addition, to a user he or she might be included in not only one segment in the same day. Figure 7 \(c\mplicates that most of users use application type and the following type is text, other and video. The usage request distribution is displayed in Figure 7 \(d\The request number of image type is near the same with the application. Considering the user number of image type is much less than the application user number, we can see the image type user use image type application more frequently than users of application type One prominent feature of mobile network is the user equipment \(UE\n be portable that means any user can move to several places in a day. Hence, the movement ability in this paper is a critical dimension taken into consideration. Each log in the dataset consist the user location presented by LAC and CI. By combining the LAC and CI we can identify a unique location point. We define a user s movement ability as the number of location points he or she visit in a day Figure 8 
User behaviors characteristics result Application characteristics User number distribution in movement ability 
 
D Location Characteristics 
283 


Figure 9 Figure 10 Figure 11 Table 4 
Flow per user distribution in movement ability Figure 10 can further implicate those users with more locations use the mobile Internet more frequently. In addition, those users only stay in one place do not use data service frequently like others Request number per user distribution in movement ability By grouping dataset into parts according to base station \(BS\we depict a BS with its total up flow and total down flow during a day. Each BS could be presented as a specific point in Figure 11 where the X-axis represents the total up flow and the Y-axis represents total down flow We use K-means algorithm to cluster base stations and those BS sharing simila r flow characteristics are put into a same cluster. In Figure 11 a bubble represents a cluster and the number of BS in the cluster determine the radius of the bubble. For the visualization reason the two largest down flow clusters are not display in the Figure 11 Table 4 shows the center and the total number of each cluster. From Figure 11 we can see some interesting distribution and variation from clusters. First, the minimum flow cluster account for 14.25% and the largest three clusters all account 29.43%. They account for near a half of the BS. Second, the larger flow clusters are more scattering than others are Third, the mini flow BS clusters show a continuity, that is, the flow features do not change intensely Base station clustering by flow features Base station distribution 9.41 93.98 14392 15.73 5.46 51.21 13032 14.25 0.23 0.93 11318 12.37 17.68 188.22 9943 10.87 3.58 31.28 9177 10.03 0.69 4.12 7566 8.27 2.64 21.48 6464 7.07 1.13 7.67 6228 6.81 2.06 15.69 5400 5.90 1.59 11.46 5355 5.85 36.72 430.37 2592 2.83 
    
 We also statistic the data flow usage per user in different movement abilities and we discover that users which visited three differen t locations has the largest average down flow from Figure 9. The flow unit is byte And to average up flow the three different locations user and other users have very high amount in a day. We should notice that other users number only account 2% of all users. Therefore, we can co nclude that users with high movement ability are more likely to use mobile Internet service and contribute more data traffic flow than other users VI S UMMARY I MPLICATIONS  AND C ONCLUSIONS This section gives the summary our key observations and describes some implications from the analysis results Conclusions involve the measurement results and our possible future work By grouping users into four parts, we find the midnight users have remarkable heavy usage of network. Although the number of midnight users account for a small portion, in average user usage perspective midnight users have second highest down flow data traffic and similar up flow volume with others. Another discovery is that midnight users have more average request times than afternoon users. Since midnight user category is not of big amount, we suggest they have some kind particular behavior pattern We also classify applications by identifying each log s content type. From different asp ects, we can see different application types have particular user usage Video types account for 6% of total down flow volume Application and image occupy most down flow volume and to up flow application, image, text and other all account for an equally important portions. User number distribution is very similar to up flow distribution and number of users that use other application account for remarkable 22% of all certain application users. User requ est distribution shows that image and application types both account for 30% and text 
UPFLOW\(Mb DOWNFLOW\(Mb COUNT ACCOUNT 
users in three different locations used data service Other users which visited more than four locations account only 2% of all users This result implicates that a great number of users do not like to use mobile Internet in many different locations. However, the proportion of user number cannot express all facts related with the location dimension  
284 


A Generalized and Extensible Sm First SDN World Congress, Damsdadt, Germany, October 2012  P  Svob od a F  R i c c i a t o E  Ha s e n l ei t hn e r et a l    C om p os i t i on of GPRS, UMTS traffic: snapshots from a live network." IPS-MOME Workshop on Internet Performance. Feb. 2006 8 M  V  J  Hei kki n e n A  K i vi an d H. Verk a s a lo  M ea s u rin g m o bi le peer-to-peer usage: Case Finland 2007." Passive and Active Network Measurement. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2009, pp. 165-174 9 J  Ri do ux A  N u cc i a n d D  V e itc h  S e e ing the dif f e re nce in I P tr af f ic  Wireless versus wireline." Proc. IEEE INFOCOM. 2006  C  W i lli a m s o n  E  Ha lep ovi c  H. S u n et a l   Cha ra ct eri z a t i on of  CDMA2000 cellular data network traffic." Local Computer Networks 2005. 30th Anniversary. The IEEE Conference on. IEEE, 2005, pp 710-719  P B e nk o G  M a li c s k o and A Ver e s   A  la rg e-s c a le p a s s i ve a na l y s i s  of end-to-end TCP performance over GPRS." INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. Vol. 3. IEEE, 2004, pp. 1882-1892 12 J. K i l p i an d P. L a ssil a M i c ro an d macro scop i c a n al y sis o f RTT variability in GPRS and UMTS networks." NETWORKING 2006 Networking Technologies, Service s, and Protocols; Performance of Computer and Communication Networks; Mobile and Wireless Communications Systems. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2006, pp 1176-1181  A  A d y a  P. Ba h l  an d L  Qi u   C h a rac t eri z i n g a l ert  a nd b r ow s e  services for mobile clients." USENIX Tech. Conf. 2002, pp. 343-356  F  R i cc ia t o F  Vac i rca  a nd M  Ka rn er  B o t t l en ec k d e t e c t i on in UMTS via TCP passive monitoring: a real case." Proceedings of the 2005 ACM conference on Emerging network experiment and technology. ACM, 2005, pp. 211-219  H Verk a s a lo E m pi r ic a l ob s e rva t i o n s o n  t h e em e r g e n c e of m o bi le multimedia services and applications in the US and Europe Proceedings of the 5th international conference on Mobile and ubiquitous multimedia. ACM, 2006 16 P J. T i mm i n s S  M cCo r m i ck E  A g u, e t al   C har a cte r ist i cs o f  mobile web content." Hot Topics in Web Systems and Technologies 2006. HOTWEB'06. 1st IEEE Workshop on. IEEE, 2006, pp. 1-10 17 I   T r e s tian, S   Ra nj a n A  K u z mano v i c, e t al   M e a s u r i ng se r e ndi pi ty  connecting people, locations and interests in a mobile 3G network Proceedings of the 9th ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement conference. ACM, 2009, pp. 267-279 18 J  H u a n g  Q  X u  B T iw a na, Z  M M a o an d M. Z h ang   A na to m i z ing  application performance differences on smartphones." Proceedings of the 8th international conference on Mobile systems, applications, and services. ACM, 2010, pp. 165-178  H F a la k i  D. L y m b er op ou los  R   M a h a j a n  et  a l   A fi rs t look a t  traffic on smartphones." Proceedings of the 10th ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement. ACM, 2010, pp. 281-287 20 A   G e mbe r  A  A n and a n d A  A k e l l a  A co mpar at iv e st udy o f  handheld and non-handheld traffic in campus Wi-Fi networks Passive and Active Measurement. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2011 pp. 173-183 21 Q  X u  J   E r m a n, A  G e r b e r Z  Mao an d J  P a ng   I de ntif y ing div e r s e  usage behaviors of smartphone apps." Proceedings of the 2011 ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement conference. ACM 2011, pp. 329-344 22 X  H e P  P  C. L e e   L  P a n C H e a n d J.C S L u i  A pa no r a m i c v i e w  of 3g data/control-plane traffic: mobile device perspective NETWORKING 2012. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2012,pp. 318-330 23 T   K a r a g ian nis  K  P a pag i an na k i an d M  F a l o uts o s    B L I N C  multilevel traffic classification in the dark." ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review. Vol. 35. No. 4. ACM, 2005, pp 229-240  J   M a c Q u een  Som e m e t h od s for c l a s s i fi ca ti on an d a n a l y s i s of multivariate observations." Proceedings of the fifth Berkeley symposium on mathematical statistics and probability. Vol. 1. No 281-297. 1967 
type comes to third place. These results reveal that application type dominates a significant part and down flow distribution is different from up flow distribution We analyze the correlations between user movement ability and other attributes. The number of users only with one location a day occupies 75 of all users and users with more than two locations only account for 2%. However when we come to the average user usage high movement ability users have relative high up flow and down flow. And to request number per user they have the highest value than others. By clustering base stations, we find that the largest and minimum BS clusters account for almost 1/3 of the BS The mini flow clusters show more continuity than those scattering large flow clusters  This paper analyzes the d ata-plane characteristics of a 3G UMTS city-wide network. From different dimension, we present a whole picture of user behaviors, applications and location characteristics. The obs ervations from our analysis could be of interest to networ k operators and researchers to investigate more details information about 3G UMTS network. Understanding those traffic patterns of different applications and users, enable much more efficient routing by controller of software defined networking Since our dataset is very new, our measurement results can reveal some characteristics of the latest UMTS network user behaviors and application service We only discuss data collected in a specific city. Ho wever, considering the city location does not influence the user behaviors much seriously we believe that one cit y data analysis is applicable and useful to others Our future work will go deep in some specific user behaviors an d network usage patterns A CKNOWLEDGMENT This work is supported in part by the Huawei grant YB2012120122 R EFERENCES 1 P T r ay no r  P  McD a n i e l an d T  L a P o r t a  O n a t t a c k  ca usal i t y in  internet-connected cellular networks." Proceedings of 16th USENIX Security Symposium on USENIX Security Symposium. USENIX Association, Aug. 2007, pp. 1-16 2 G oo gl e  E r ic S c hm i dt a t Mo b i l e W o rl d Co ng r e s s  20 1 1  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ClkQA2Lb_iE&feature=related 3 Q X u  J   E r m a n, A  G e r b e r Z  Mao an d J  P a ng   I de ntif y ing div e r s e  usage behaviors of smartphone apps." Proceedings of the 2011 ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement conference. ACM Nov. 2011, pp. 329-334 4 P P C. L e e  T  Bu an d T  W o o    O n the de te ct io n o f sig n al i n g D o S  attacks on 3G/WiMax wireless networks." Computer Networks 53\(15\,Oct. 2009, pp. 2601-2616 5 O pe nF l ow Sw itch S pe c i f i cat io n V e r s io n 1 3 1  https://www.opennetworking.org/images/stories/downloads/sdnresources/onf-specifications/openflow/openflow-spec-v1.3.1.pdf 6 
M. Luo, Y.J. Tian, Q.C. Li, J. Wang and W. Chou. çSOX art Network OpenFlow Controller \(X 
285 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Architecture Server-1 Server-2 DB2 SURVDB XML Shredder WebSphere Message Broker Ext.4 H Ext.3 G Ext.2 F Ext.1 E C WebSphere MQ TCP/IP Live ASDI Stream IBM Cognos Server-3 IBM SPSS Modeler SPSS Collaboration Deployment Services 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Database Modeling Schemas for correlated ASDI messages translated into equivalent relational schemas  Database tables generated based on classes created from schema definitions  Nine main, eleven supporting tables  Each main table contains FLIGHT_KEY 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Database Modeling 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Correlation Process To archive received ASDI data  Track messages must be correlated with flight plan messages FLIGHT_KEY assigned Uncorrelated data tagged Approx 30 minutes to correlate one day of data 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Historical Data Processing To load correlated data  Uncompress, unmarshall  Create a list of files containing the correlated data  Write data to warehouse 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Live Data Processing Processed using IBM MQ IBM Message Broker and a technique called XML Shredding Message Broker Compute Nodes  Uncompress Node  Extract correlated messages  Shred Node adds to DB Stored Procedure ìshreds XML docs and adds to tables 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Issues and Observations Initial load of one day of data ~ 7 hours Optimizations  Write data in batches  Use a mutable data structure to create data strings  Deploy a higher performance machine  Use load instead of insert  Use DB2 Range-Partitioned tables  Database tunings Time reduced from 7 hours to approx 30 minutes 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Use a mutable data structure to create data strings  Original application created the SQL statement by appending elements to a Java String  It was taking five hours \(of the seven hours Strings  Instead Java StringBuilder used  Java Strings immutable  Time savings of 71.4 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Deployed on a higher-performance machine  Application ported from IBM Blade Center HS21 \(4GB of RAM and 64-bit dual-core Xeon 5130 processor to Dell M4500 computer \(4GB of RAM and 64-bit of quad-core Intel Core i7 processor  Reduced the time to thirty minutes Bulk loading instead of insert  Application was modified to write CSV files for each table  Entire day worth of data bulk loaded  Reduced the time to fifteen minutes 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Range-Partitioned tables \(RPT  To limit the size of tables, the original code created multiple tables per table type  This puts burden on the application to query multiple tables when a range crosses several tables  With RPT, user is not required to make multiple queries when a range crosses a table boundary  Increased the time to thirty minutes  Additional fifteen minute cost per day of partitioning enabled time savings during queries 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Database tunings  Range periods changed from a week to a month  Automatic table space resizing changed from 32MB to 512KB  Buffer pool size decreased  Decreased the time to twenty minutes Overall, total time savings of 95.2 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  20 IBM Confidential Analytics Landscape Degree of Complexity Competitive Advantage Standard Reporting Ad hoc reporting Query/drill down Alerts Simulation Forecasting Predictive modeling Optimization What exactly is the problem What will happen next if What if these trends continue What could happen What actions are needed How many, how often, where What happened Stochastic Optimization Based on: Competing on Analytics, Davenport and Harris, 2007 Descriptive Prescriptive Predictive How can we achieve the best outcome How can we achieve the best outcome including the effects of variability Used with permission of IBM 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Initial Analysis Activities Flights departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving within a date and time range Flights between city pair A,B Flights between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a volume on a date. \(sector, center, etc boundary Flights passing through a volume within a date and time range Flights passing through an airspace volume in n-minute intervals All x-type aircraft departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving on a date between city pair A,B Flights departing or arriving on a date between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a named fix, airway, center, or sector Filed Flight plans for any of the above Actual departure, arrival times and actual track reports for any of the above 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial SPSS Applications Show all tracks by call sign 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case For a given Airspace Volume of Interest \(AVOI compute distinct traffic volume at some point in the future  Aim to alert on congestion due to flow control areas or weather if certain thresholds are exceeded  Prescribe solution \(if certain thresholds are exceeded Propose alternate flight paths  Use pre-built predictive model  SPSS Modeler performs data processing Counts relevant records in the database \(pattern discovery Computes traffic volume using statistical models on descriptive pattern Returns prediction with likelihood 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  24 Pulls in the TRACKINFO table of MAIN using SQL Limits the data to database entries which fall inside the AVOI Combines the SOURCE_DATE and SOURCE_TIME to a timestamp that can be understood by modeler Computes which time interval the database entry falls in. The time interval is 15 minutes Defines the target and input fields needed for creating the model Handles the creation of the model Produces a graph based off of the model results Final prediction 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Cognos BI Applications IBM Cognos Report Studio  Web application for creating reports  Can be tailored by date range, aircraft id, departure/arrival airport etc  Reports are available with links to visuals IBM Framework Manager  Used to create the data package  Meta-data modeling tool  Users can define data sources, and relationships among them Models can be exported to a package for use with Report Studio 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 1 of 3 Report shows the departure date, departure and arrival locations and hyperlinks to Google Map images DeparturePosition and ArrivalPosition are calculated data items formatted for use with Google Maps Map hyperlinks are also calculated based on the type of fix 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 2 of 3 DeparturePosition, Departure Map, ArrivalPosition and Arrival Map are calculated data items \(see departure items below DepartureLatitude DepartureLongitude DeparturePosition Departure Map 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 3 of 3 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Conclusion and Next Steps Current archive is 50 billion records and growing  Approximately 34 million elements per day  1GB/day Sheer volume of raw surveillance data makes analytics process very difficult The raw data runs through a series of processes before it can be used for analytics Next Steps  Continue application of predictive and prescriptive analytics  Big data visualization 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Questions and Comments Paul Comitz Boeing Research & Technology Chantilly, VA, 20151 office Paul.Comitz@boeing.com 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  31 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a ìkey, valueî list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of ìkey, valueî pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


