Unstructured Data Extracti on in Distributed NoSQL  Richard K. Lomotey Department of Computer Science University of Saskatchewan Saskatoon, SK, Canada richard.lomotey@usask.ca  Ralph Deters Department of Computer Science University of Saskatchewan Saskatoon, SK, Canada deters@cs.usask.ca  Abstract 226 While \223Big data\224 has brought good tidings in terms of easy accessibility to voluminous data, we are faced with challenges too. The existing Knowledge Discovery in Database \(KDD\ processes which have been proposed for schema-oriented data sources are no longer applicable since today\222s data is unstructured. Previously we deployed a tool called TouchR which relies on the Hidden Markov Model \(HMM\ to extract terms from unstructured data sources \(specifically, NoSQL databases This paper has advanced on the initially deployed version where we introduced re-usable dictionary and association rules to improve on the quality of the extracted terms. Also the tool in its present stage is more adaptable to the user search based on the most frequently searched term Keywords Unstructured data, big data, Hidden Markov Model \(HMM\s extraction, NoSQL, Re-usable dictionary, Association rules 1  Introduction The explosion of online services and the high data consumerization across the ente rprise spectrum is leading the business stakeholders to re-align their products and services h an ks to t h e Intern et a n d t h e s t ead y decli n e  in cloud services cost, there is vast amount of data that can be accessed readily for most enterprise specific purposes Taking marketing and sales enterprises for example, the online information can be used to reach wider audience on product advertisement But, there is a challenge. The vast amount of data is unstructured; which means the data is schema-less, and comes in different formats such as documents/text, email messages, customer feedbacks, audio clips, video files images, blogs from online collaborative forums, and posts and conversations on social networking platforms According to Rupanagunta et al. [1  t he i n fl ux o f  unstructured data is tightly coupled to big data considering the fact that Twitter users alone generate 12 terabytes of data every day As if Pareto\222s 80-20 rule is carefully designed for this topic, Feldman [21o a n ed t h a t t h ere i s  l ack o f t ool s to effectively manage the exponential growth in data while noting that out of the current existing data, only 20% are in structured databases and 80% are unstructured. This phenomenon which is also reported a decade later by  and [23 d i rectly lead s to ch alle n g e s reg a rd in g t h e  management of the data from analytical, processing interpretation, extraction, and storage points of view Further, the existing data mining techniques have been designed to work with schema-oriented databases for structured data styles w e v e r, th e s e e x is ti ng techniques are no longer relevant to the modern challenges of information extraction.  Modern researchers in the areas of cloud computing, artificial intelligence, big data analytics, etc. have devised techniques based on linguistic and Natural Language Processing \(NLP\o make sense of the unstructured data debris. To this effect, we have seen approaches on unstructured data mining such as: templates  s o ciation ru le s 45 t opic track ing a n d topic m a ps   cra w li ng ter m s    o cum e n t cl u s teri ng  o cum e nt sum m a rizati o n 9], Helm h o ltz S earc h  Principl reu s a bl e di ct i o n a ri es 11], an d s o on T h e  works in the area of unstructured data mining is summarized in Table I Moreover, in an attempt to accommodate the growing highdimensional data, NoSQL databases have been proposed This style of databases support schema-less, semistructured, and structured data storage while some accommodate file attachments \(e.g., CouchDB\. Examples of NoSQL storages are: MEGA, Dropbox, and Amazon S3 and so on. Further, there is also a growing trend in deploying databases which is graph-based. Currently, we have seen the deployment of graph-oriented services such as Facebook Open Graph oog l e K n o w l e d g e G raph 17  B i n g o n e u p s K n o w led g e Grap h 1 8  an d T w itter  Interest Graph In our previous studies in e depl o y ed a t ool cal l e d  TouchR that employs the Hidden Markov Model \(HMM  o ex t ract t e r m s f ro m di s t ri bu t e d N o S Q L dat a bas e s   Though RSenter shows high performance boost in terms of the optimization of search time, there were challenges with adaptability to search terms. Also, the tool has problems with semantics where we are not able to separate two terms that are the same \(i.e., exact writing/representation\ but have different meanings. The presence of these issues leads to the introduction of False Negative results where search terms are returned that the user does not want We have since advanced on the TouchR by adopting the techniques of association rules between terms from [4-5 and re-usable dictionaries from T h e rem a i n i n g sections of the paper are structured as follows. The next section gives an overview of the TouchR tool and the 978-1-4799-0786-1/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 160 


advances on the existing work are discussed in Section 3 Section 4 details the evaluation of TouchR and the paper concludes in Section 5 2  The Architecture of TouchR The TouchR framework as illustrated in Fig. 1 is deployed based on our vision which seeks to aid terms mining in NoSQL data silos. The implementation is done in the Erlang programming language an d th e u s er i n terf ace i s  browser-based. In the next section, we discuss the architectural overview of the framework 2.1  The Architectural Composition TouchR is a standalone application that has Erlang backend and an HTML5 interface to enhance user interaction Currently, the user interface relies on a visualization tool called JavaScript InfoVis Toolkit h e u s er i n t e rf ace  TouchR App\ws the user to specify the query terms  which are the actual artifacts that the user is interested in extracting from the data debris Once a query term is selected, the selection is forwarded to the semantic engine which contains two components; the thesaurus and the dictionary As already posited, topic extraction focuses on the actual keywords being searched while terms require the extraction of other features keyword dependencies\stance, in an organization topic extraction can be done by searching for the keyword 223contract\224, where contract may refer to all files and information regarding contractual issues. In that case, the search will return all results containing the exact topic 223contract\224. However, terms extraction for the same keyword \223contract\224 will require other dependencies such as agreements, technical description documents, nondisclosure agreements, and so on. In effect, terms are specified by the user because sometimes, the expected result may not even contain the actual keyword being searched for because that keyword may not literally exist in the data sources while a synonym may exist and be returned. Hence, the thesaurus allows the user to specify the dependent terms and synonyms. For enterprise users of TouchR, we encourage the system administrators to prepopulate the thesaurus with possible terms and their TABLE I S UMMARIZED M ETHODOLOGIES OF U NSTRUCTURED D ATA M INING     Information Extraction Association Rules Topics Terms Document Clustering Document Summarization Re-Usable Dictionaries Goal  Data Retrieval KDD Process Trend discovery in text, document or file Topic Recommendation Establish associative relationships between terms Organize documents into sub-groups with closer identity Noise Filtering in Large Documents For Knowledge Collaboration and Sharing Data Representation Long or short text, semantics and ontologies keywords Keywords Long or short sentences Keywords Lexical chaining Keywords Data Documents Terms, Topics Documents Words Sentences Natural Language Processing  Feature extraction Keyword extraction Lexical chaining Lemmas Parts-ofSpeech Feature extraction Lexical chaining Feature extraction Output  Documents Structured or semi-structured Visualization Summary report Topic linkages Visualization crawler depth Visualization Visualization Summery report Summary report Techniques  Community data mining Tagging Normalization of data Tokenizing Entity detection Ontologies Semantics Linguistics Publish/Subscribe TopicsAssociationsOccurrences Linguistic Preprocessing Term Generation K-means clustering Hierarchical clustering Document structure analysis Document classification Annotations Tagging Search Space  Document Files, Database Document Files, Database Document, Files Databases Topics vector space Documents Databases Databases, Sets of documents Databases Sets of documents Evaluation metrics  Similarity and relatedness of Documents sentences and keywords Similarity Mapping, Cooccurrence of features correlations Associations Similarity Sensitivity Specificity Frequency of terms Frequency variations Sensitivity Specificity  Balanced Iterative Reducing and Clustering BIRCH Transition and preceding matrix, Audit trail Word extensibility Challenges and Future Directions  Lack of research on Data Pedigree Applies varying approaches for different data Identification of Topics of interest can be challenging Community based so adoption can be challenging Can be resource intensive therefore needs research on parallelization Needs research on Data Pedigree Lack of research on dictionary adaptation to new words 978-1-4799-0786-1/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 161 


                  Figure 1. Architectural design of TouchR  dependencies before the actual mining process commences by novice users. However, the terms and their dependencies can be specified and stored in the thesaurus at the time of performing the terms extraction task. Typically the data being sent across the system components is JSON so an example of a specified query term can appear as      The thesaurus will store this information using \223R Lomotey\224 as the main artifact while the project and units are dependency keywords that will also be extracted as part of the terms mining process. The dictionary is implemented to provide the TouchR framework with adaptability features. Once a terms-extraction task is completed successfully, we allow the users to specify their satisfaction rate from \(0 \226 5\. The terms extraction is rated very poor 0\cellent \(5\Apart from the human rating, we analyze the accuracy, precision, and recall of every search at the application level. This will be discussed later in the paper. But, highly rated terms extraction tasks by the users which correspond to the systems accuracy and precision are moved into the dictionary. The user does not interact with the dictionary but only the system. So, in the future when users specify a query term such as \223R Lomotey\224 who is an employee but the only dependent or synonymous keywords that are specified is project and unit2 or even completely different units, the system will add to the query result unit3 or all the previous results that are returned when other users perform the query tasks and report high satisfaction. The dictionary actually stores human rated values from \(3 \226 5 At the moment, the thesaurus and dictionary are implemented using DETS which is disk storage in Erlang When the semantic definition tasks are completed, the query term and its dependency keywords \(either specified by the user or from the dictionary\forward to the transactor component. The transactor is the main engine that determines the number of available NoSQL databases their different MapReduce functions, their REST API formats, and their returned results formats. The challenge we have at the moment is that, the transactor is not adaptable. So, prior to the terms extraction process, the query nature of the expected NoSQL databases has to be specified. For example, the transactor does not support cloud storage such as MEGA or Dropbox so if these frameworks are specified as the NoSQL databases, then there will be no terms extraction. However, to use these storages, their REST APIs has to be pre-defined in the transactor; and this activity re quires expertise in Erlang programming as well as API usage At the moment, TouchR supports NoSQL databases from the following providers: Bigdata, CouchDB, MongoDB Neo4J, Cloudata, DynamoDB. The list of the supported NoSQL is heterogeneous in the sense that some are the traditional NoSQL storages and a few \(e.g., Neo4J graph databases. So, the query engine performs the terms extraction tasks on the NoSQL using the key/value pair format which is the property of these NoSQL storages However, the graph databases rely on both properties and indexes to access the data on the distributed nodes. The transactor takes every query term as a key and every dependent term is also treated as a key. Hence, the transactor generates MapReduce queries with the terms to extract the data from the NoSQL sources. We consider the details of MapReduce queries of all the NoSQL being studied here outside the scope of this paper for brevity. We encourage the reader to consult the documentations on the websites of each of the products Further, there are some instances where file reading may be required \(e.g., attachments in CouchDB\. This case is simplified by just downloading the file and reading its content and treating it just as an actual data. All the returned data from the queries are sent back to the query response engine on the client side. The query response  engine then displays the result on the user interface In order to traverse the distributed NoSQL databases, we employed the Hidden Markov Model \(HMM\which aids us to reduce the search complexity. The traversing of the distributed NoSQL follows the exponential complexity but the HMM aids us to reduce the complexity to linear. This further aids in the optimization of the time to traverse the NoSQL databases. A sample output of the tool in HTML5 is shown in Fig. 2. The reader is referred to the work in  o r f u rth e r readin g on t h e HMM 978-1-4799-0786-1/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 162 


 Figure 2. Clustering tree result for the extracted term \223R Lomotey\224 who is an employee  3  Re-Usable Dictionary and Association Rules In order to make TouchR more adaptable, we adopted the re-usable dictionary technique that is proposed by d 30  T h e ch alle n g e s w ith t h e in i tiall y d e p l o y ed  v e rsio n o f  TouchR in at, th e s earch criterion is not adaptive to search history and semantic issues were not overcome Specifically, when two keywords \(artifacts\ are written same but have different meanings, TouchR is not able to determine the difference in meaning so this leads to False Negative and False Positive results. We further explain these indices below 200 True Positive \(TP The search term as specified by the user is found and returned 200 False Positive \(FP The search term specified exists in the data source but is not found by the search tool. This is a case that is never entertained in any working system 200 True Negative \(TN The specified search term does not exist in the data source and the search tool reports that it does not exist  200 False Negative \(FN This is a case of returning undesired results. Sometimes, what the user is not looking for is equally returned  The increasing volume of unstructured data also requires the implementation of re-usable dictionaries to further facilitate collaboration in a working group. In software engineering for example, dictionaries could enable a group of developers to rely on shared knowledge \(which is communicated in an unstructured data format\ better speed up the development process. Dictionaries are mainly used for annotation and tagging of words. The challenges however relate to how dictionaries are built and re-using dictionaries. If dictionaries can be re-used, the domain experts can just rely on the experiences of previous tasks Godbole et al. [1 ilt a s e t of tools that will enable end users to construct dictionaries. A dictionary D is defined as D = Dict\(C, X where C is a concept in a document of collection X The authors further extended the dictionary to support single seed words, set of seed words, and positive and negative seed sets \(i.e., the user can choose to provide words of interest as well as words of no interest\he possibility of re-using the dictionary is as a result of the fact that there is an existing algorithm that supports the dictionary agility such that the function adapt\(n, D is true Meaning for n number of new terms to be added to the dictionary, the dictionary D can adapt to accommodate the update On the issue of system adaptive learning, Gonzalez et al  i m pl e m e n t e d a di ct i o n a r y b as e f ra m e w or k t h at  employs tagging to map entities. The challenge in adaptive learning systems is that, new jargons are being added every day from the cloud and social networks; which make the area evolving. Hence, the idea behind the implementation of the dictionary is to adopt semantic data to improve on the information extraction process, as well as using the information extraction output to discover new terms Moreover, the Association Rules \(AR\plied in discovering text with co-occurrences in features Simply put, association rules are employed to achieve pattern discovery in the text, document or file. AR works by identifying a set T of transactions which is a subset of a bigger transaction I FORMALISM To formalize the AR transaction, Delgado et  ex pres s  I and its subset T as associative if A   C  with A  C  I A  C   null and A  C  null where C  1  to mean that \223 C 224 is present in every transaction that \223 A 224 is present in Association rules are closely related to information extraction since AR aims at establishing relationships between records s fu rt h e r ou t l i n e d b y D e l g ado et al  4 n e ap p licatio n o f asso cia tiv e ru le is tre n d d i sco v er y  a  very salient measure in accomplishing search tasks. Trend discovery can enable us understand from the textual content what reports are being generated and how are those reports being handled. This is achieved by building relationships between the T transactions \(or activities\d labeling these transactions using timestamps and other identifiers In order to improve on the TouchR tool, we adopted the reusable dictionary technique proposed by d [30  Then we further adapted the association rules technique proposed by d [6 We r e s t ru ct u red th e th e s a u ru s a n d dictionary components of TouchR to store keywords artifacts\ with their synonyms and antonyms as illustrated in Fig. 3. The synonyms and/or antonyms can be specified at the time of performing the terms extraction task or can be pre-populated. As noted earlier, the challenge that the TouchR framework had was with the differentiation between similar terms with different meanings. From Figure 3 for instance, previously when searching for the term \223 Contract 224, the output will include all terms relating 978-1-4799-0786-1/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 163 


to \223Agreement\224 and \223Acquire\224. This situation leads to high False Negative result which can affect the sensitivity and accuracy of the terms extraction  Figure 3. Sample structure of the stored Terms With the introduction of the of the re-usable dictionary, the user can perform the terms extraction in three different ways that can lead to higher accuracy 1 Search Choice 1 The user can specify the search term plus the synonyms of the term so that similar terms but different meanings can be eliminated 2 Search Choice 2 The user can specify the search term plus the antonyms which tells the TouchR tool what not to search for 3 Search Choice 3 Specify the search term and the result will include a lot of False Negatives. Then, the user can choose any keyword out of the result to further refine the serach criteria. This situation leads to higher latecny but it is also a sure way to identify existing synonyms. For example, if the dictionary is not verbose enough, it may not contain some synonyms that can be specified by the user Next, we establish association rules between terms However, association rules are not generic; rather, they apply to specific domains. For example, association rules can be defined as: influenced by, caused by, dependent on related to, searched by, etc. In essence, the association rules aid in making the search adaptable. So, when users search for a term, those terms are rated high when others are searching for those terms later. Thus, assuming previously 223Contract\224 was searched to mean \223Agreement\224, subsequent searches will rate the \223Agreement\224 contract ahead of 223Acquire\224 contract 4  Evaluation We deployed TouchR on our Windows powered system with the following specifications: Windows 7 System 32 3.20 3.12 GHz, 8GB RAM, 1TB HDD. We considered training data sets from thesaurus.com where we crawled over five \(5\million terms and their dependencies. The crawled terms are stored in a CouchDB database which is deployed on Amazon EC2 instance. Using the above highlighted indices, we calculate the reliability of the search based on the parameters in Table II. The experimental result is reported in Table III TABLE II E XTENDING ON THE I NDICES  Precision    Recall \(Sensitivity   Specificity   Accuracy     TABLE III R ELIABILITY OF THE T OUCH R  S EARCH T OOL   1  Million Records 2 Million Records 4 Million Records 5 Million Records True Positive 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00 False Positive 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00 True Negative 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00 False Negative 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00 Precision 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00 Recall Sensitivity 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00 Specificity 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00 Accuracy 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00 Search Time 502.76s 689.95s 734.02s 967.14s From Table III, we employ the Search Choice 1 technique where we specify search terms with synonyms. Then, we repeat the term extraction process using the Search Choice 2 where terms are specified with antonyms specified. In each case, we achieve 100% accuracy for varying number of terms \(1 million to 5 million\ because the False Negative and False Positive results are 0%. This is a huge improvement on the initially deployed version of TouchR in w e v er, th e d u rati on i.e., th e s earch t i m e to extract the terms has increased in comparison to the previous version 5  Conclusion As data is increasing at an exponential rate, the challenge is how to make meaning out of the data. This requires information extraction task from the debris of unstructured data. Previously, we proposed a tool called TouchR which relies on the Hidden Markov Model to extract terms from 978-1-4799-0786-1/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 164 


distributed NoSQL databases. However, there was a challenge with the tool regarding the differentiation between two similarly written terms with different meanings In this paper, we have solved the problem by adopting the re-usable dictionary and association rules techniques. The users are given three search options that allow them to specify search terms with synonyms, antonyms, or summarize the search from initial returned result. The future direction will consider the implications of the same work from other textual and NoSQL sources References 1 K. RUPANAGUNTA, D. ZAKKAM, AND H. RAO, \223How to Mine Unstructured Data,\224 Article in Information Management, June 29 2012, http://www.information-management.com/newsletters/data-miningunstructured-big-data-youtube--10022781-1.html 2 D. KUONEN, \223Challenges in Bioinformatics for Statistical Data Miners,\224 Bulletin of the Swiss Statistical Society, Vol. 46 \(October 2003 pp. 10-17 3 J. Y. HSU, AND W. YIH, \223Template-Based Information Mining from HTML Documents,\224 American Association for Artificial Intelligence, July 1997 4 M. DELGADO, M. MART\315N-BAUTISTA, D. S\301NCHEZ, AND M. VILA, \223Mining Text Data: Special Features and Patterns,\224 Pattern Detection and Discovery, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 2002 Volume 2447/2002, 175-186, DOI: 10.1007/3-540-45728-3_11 5 Q. ZHAO AND S. S. BHOWMICK, \223Association Rule Mining: A Survey,\224 Technical Report, CAIS, Nanyang Technological University Singapore, No. 2003116 , 2003 6 W. ABRAMOWICZ, T. KACZMAREK, AND M KOWALKIEWICZ, \223Supporting Topic Map Creation Using Data Mining Techniques,\224 Australasian Journal of Information Systems, Special Issue 2003/2004, Vol 11, No 1 7 B. JANET, AND A. V. REDDY, \223Cube index for unstructured text analysis and mining,\224 In Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Communication, Computing & Security \(ICCCS '11\. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 397-402 8 L. HAN, T. O. SUZEK, Y. WANG, AND S. H. BRYANT, \223The Text-mining based PubChem Bioassay neighboring analysis,\224 BMC Bioinformatics 2010, 11:549 doi:10.1186/1471-2105-11-549 9 L. DEY, AND S. K. M. HAQUE, \223Studying the effects of noisy text on text mining applications,\224 In Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Analytics for Noisy Unstructured Text Data \(AND '09\. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 107-114. DOI=10.1145/1568296.1568314  A. BALINSKY, H. BALINSKY, AND S. SIMSKE, \223On the Helmholtz Principle for Data Mining,\224 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P  S. GODBOLE, I. BHATTACHARYA, A. GUPTA, AND A VERMA, \223Building re-usable dictionary repositories for real-world text mining,\224 In Proceedings of the 19th ACM international conference on Information and knowledge management \(CIKM '10\. ACM, New York NY, USA, 1189-1198  F. S. GHAREHCHOPOGH, AND Z. A. KHALIFELU, \223Analysis and evaluation of unstructured data: text mining versus natural language processing,\224 Application of Information and Communication Technologies \(AICT\, 2011 5th International Conference on , vol., no pp.1-4, 12-14 Oct. 2011, doi: 10.1109/ICAICT.2011.6111017  V. TUNALI, AND T. T. BILGIN, \223PRETO: A High-performance Text Mining Tool for Preprocessing Turkish Texts,\224 2012 International Conference on Computer Systems and Technologies  S. V. VINCHURKAR, AND S. M. NIRKHI, \223Feature Extraction of Product from Customer Feedback through Blog,\224 International Journal of Emerging Technology and Advanced Engineering, \(ISSN 2250-2459 Volume 2, Issue 1, January 2012  J. SEQUEDA AND DANIEL P. MIRANKER, \223Linked Data,\224 Linked Data tutorial at Semtech 2012, Jun 07, 2012. Available http://www.slideshare.net/juansequeda/linked-data-tutorial-at-semtech2012  Facebook Open Graph, Availlable https://developers.facebook.com/docs/concepts/opengraph/overview   Google Knowledge Graph, Available http://www.google.ca/insidesearch/features/search/knowledge.html   Bing one-ups Knowledge Graph, The Next Web http://thenextweb.com/microsoft/2012/06/07/bing-challenges-googlesknowledge-graph-with-new-britannica-encyclopedia-partnership   Twitter Interest Graph http://blogs.ischool.berkeley.edu/i290-abdts12/2012/11/25/analyzing-the-twitter-social-graph   NoSQL http://nosql-database.org   R. FELDMAN, M. FRESKO, H. HIRSH, Y. AUMANN, O LIPHSTAT, Y. SCHLER, AND M. RAJMAN, \223Knowledge Management: A Text Mining Approach,\224 Proc. of the 2nd Int. Conf. on Practical Aspects of Knowledge Management \(PAKM98\, Basel Switzerland, 29-30 Oct. 1998  R. FELDMAN, M. FRESKO, Y. KINAR, Y. LINDELL, O LIPHSTAT, M. RAJMAN, Y. SCHLER, AND O. ZAMIR, \223Text mining at the term level,\224 Proc. of the 2nd European Symposium on Principles of Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery \(PKDD'98  J. C. SCHOLTES, \223Text-Mining: The next step in search technology,\224 DESI-III Workshop Barcelona, Monday June 8, 2009  J. LEE, D. GROSSMAN, O. FRIEDER, AND M. C. MCCABE 223Integrating structured data and text: a multi-dimensional approach,\224 Proceedings of Information Technology: Coding and Computing, 2000 International Conference on , vol., no., pp.264-269, 2000, doi 10.1109/ITCC.2000.844234  R. K. LOMOTEY, S. JAMAL, AND R. DETERS, \223SOPHRA: A Mobile Web Services Hosting Infrastructure in mHealth,\224 Mobile Services MS\, 2012 IEEE First International Conference on , vol., no., pp.88-95 24-29 June 2012, doi: 10.1109/MobServ.2012.14  SCHEFFER, T., DECOMAIN, C., AND WROBEL, S. 2001 Mining the Web with active hidden Markov models. Data Mining, 2001 ICDM 2001, Proceedings IEEE International Conference on , vol., no pp.645-646, 2001, doi: 10.1109/ICDM.2001.989591  Erlang Programming Language http://www.erlang.org   JavaScript InfoVis Toolkit http://philogb.github.com/jit   R. K. LOMOTEY AND R. DETERS, \223Terms Extraction from Unstructured Data Silos\224, Proc. of the IEEE 8th International Conference on System of Systems Engineering \(SoSE\, pp 19-24, June 2-6 2013 Maui, Hawaii, USA  T. GONZALEZ, P. SANTOS, F. OROZCO, M. ALCARAZ, V ZALDIVAR, A. D. OBESO, AND A. GARCIA, \223Adaptive Employee Profile Classification for Resource Planning Tool,\224 SRII Global Conference \(SRII 2012 Annual , vol., no., pp.544-553, 24-27 July 2012 doi: 10.1109/SRII.2012.67  A. McCALLUM, \223Information Extraction: Distilling Structured Data from Unstructured Text\224. Queue 3, 9 \(November 2005\, 48-57 DOI=10.1145/1105664.1105679  978-1-4799-0786-1/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 165 


  7 and Systems Society Vice-President and former Brazilian Computer Society President. He is an IEEE Senior Member Otavio Dur\343o received a B.S. in Civil Engineering from Universidade Cat\363lica do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, in 1974 M.S. in Industrial Automation and Operational Research \(1980\ and Ph.D. in Industrial Automation 1986\ from Pennsylvania State University. At INPE, he is the Deputy Planning Coordinator, the former Head of the Space Mechanics and Control Division, and Engineer since 1986. Otavio is also the coordinator of the Space Politics Committee from Brazilian Aerospace Association, and a founding member of the Association. Committee member at Brazilian Space Agency representing INPE for two R&D programs. He is currently engaged in projects of development of small satellite in cooperation with Brazilian universities  Nelson Schuch received a Lic.es Sci. in Physics from Universidade Federal de Santa Maria, Santa Maria, in 1972, M.S. in Astrophysics from Universidade Presbiteriana Mackenzie, S\343o Paulo, in 1975, Ph.D. \(1979\ and Pos Doctor \(1980\ in Physics \226 Astrophysics from University of Cambridge, England. He is the mentor of the actions for the development and construction of the INPE\222s Southern Regional Space Research Center and the Southern Space Observatory His activities are related to high energy astrophysics Sun-Earth interactions, space weather, geomagnetic storms and spatial geophysics. He leads nanosatellite developments project. Nelson is consultant and counselor of Brazilian Aerospace Association  Gustavo Dessbesel received a B.S in Computer Science from Universidade Federal de Santa Cruz do Sul, Santa Cruz do Sul, in 2003, and M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Universidade Federal de Santa Maria, Santa Maria, in 2008. His work is related to electronic circuits, and the main topics are FPGAs image processing, computat ional view, digital filters embedded systems and digital ASICs design. Gustavo is currently an ASIC designer and Project Leader at Santa Maria Design House   


  8 The transition from idle state to gimbal activity state requires use of a set of critical commands to disable the gimbal safety inhibit. This inhibit prevents inadvertent operation of the laser during external crew or robotic activities by preventing actuation of the gimbal pointing. In order to disable the inhibit, a pair of two commands, one 223arm\224 and one \223fire\224, must be sent in succession to the flight software. Following receipt of these commands, the gimbal can be commanded to move away from the stow position and away from the limit switches that bound the range of motion Upon movement of the gimbal, the Flight System enters gimbal activity state. The primary operations activity within this state is the gimbal calibration, which defines the reference points for each axis. This activity is a sequence of movement commands that drive the gimbal through its full range of motion and establish reference points at the edge of each axis by measuring where the limit switches are actuated. Since the actuators lack encoders, the gimbal can only determine its position by counting commanded steps The transition from gimbal activity state to laser enabled state requires additional critical commands to be sent to the FS to disable the laser safety inhibits. The laser arm/fire critical commands disable the inhibit preventing closure of the 28V power relay to the laser. In order to decentralize the laser activation process for safety purposes, independent commands must be sent from the OPALS MOS and the POIC for 28V power to be routed to the laser. Each of the commands closes an independent power relay along the 28V power path on the FS power board. Once the 28V power is provided to the laser, the FS enters \223laser enabled\224 state The major activities in this state are the powering on of the flight camera and the powering of the flight laser unit to full power. The latter involves activating a 5V power relay to the laser booster, which is controlled by its own inhibit that requires an additional arm/fire command pair to be sent Once these major activities are complete, the FS can be commanded to point toward the first entry in the Blind Pointing Table, at which point, the FS is configured for Demonstration The FS enters demonstration state upon execution of the commence_demo command. Since this transition must be set to occur at a specific time determined by the ISS trajectory, this command will be scheduled in a command sequence. The Flight System restricts all commands during this state except for the abort_safe command to transition the entire payload to safe state, should an anomaly occur The sequence of activities in the demonstration state follows the description in the first part of section 3 The post-Demonstration activities involve safely powering off the laser, driving the gimbal to stow, and re-enabling all inhibits. These activities are accomplished by a post-demo command sequence that executes automatically upon nominal exit of demonstration state. Once all inhibits are  Figure 7: Flight System states diagram 


  enabled, the Flight System is returned to i d begin downlinking  accumulated engin e camera frames from the file system via t Once all products are downlinked and a fin a made, the 28V power is removed from the the Flight System activities. Figure 8 sho w in-the-life timeline which includes so m assumptions about the durations required t o tasks  4  ISS  I NTERFACE  The ISS interface is multifaceted and i n connections, software, and communicati o teams at the various NASA centers. I f interfaces are considered, a number of a s significant influences on a project, directl y throughout its lifecycle may be missed G interface can be thought of as having thre interaction: programmatic, technical, a n remaining of this section provides a disc u them Programmatic Interface For over 11 years, the International Space ISSP\ has continuously maintained a hu m low Earth orbit with constant operation a around the globe.  After 14 years of co visiting vehicles and integration of 390 me t qualified equipment, the ISS is the larg e created in space. Supporting such a m a requires a daunting number of engineers, to thousands In 2011 STS-134 delivered the A Spectrometer to the ISS marking the en d States\222 p rimary assembly phase of the ISS completion the ISSP has undergone a sw e from an assembly centric organization to a one. Supporting this new focus, the ISS P amongst 15 primary offices representing t h expertise. OPALS\222 primary five offices o shown Figure 9 The Research and Integration Office \(OZ h responsibilities for managing and interfaci n like OPALS.  Systems engineers with b r Figure 8: Day-in-thelife activities a r 9 d le state and can e ering logs and t he ISS RF link a l health check is payload, ending w s a typical daym e conservative o perform various n cludes physical o n with all the f only technical s pects that exert y and indirectly G enerally the ISS e e major areas of n d safety. The u ssion of each of Station Program m an presence in al support from nstruction, 140 t ric tons of space e st outpost ever assive operation o taling well in the A lpha Magnetic d of the United Following this e eping transition a payload centric P is now divided h e breadth of ISS o f interactio n are h olds the primary n g with payloads r oad experiences reside within this office to expertl y the rest of the program. On an as-n e and Integration Office has aided d with over 300 individuals across 30 Despite well planned standardizati o human interface between payload is necessary to facilitate the excha n hundreds of engineers and t h specifications Technical Interface The Station\222s massive supporting o support its technical complexit y complexity can amount to 694 across 11 disciplines.  These disci p electrical, command and da t environmental, materials, marking astronaut and software interfaces To both standardize and simplify a connections are provided by a Flig h Mechanism \(FRAM\lighted come in many sizes and varieties cargo or instrument they support Express Pallet Adapter \(ExPA The physical interface occurs i n translation, and operation. The fi OPALS integrated into the trunk o stack ascending to orbit.  The lau n r e scheduled and performed relative to the beginning o Figure 9: Simplified org chart o JSC offices that OPALS has int e points in its lif e y direct payloads through e eded basis, the Research d irect OPALS interaction supporting teams o n and documentation, a d evelopers and the ISSP n ge of information across h ousands of pages of o rganizatio n is scaled to y For payloads, this interface requirements p lines include structural t a handling, thermal maintainability, robotic a ll physical interfaces and h t Releasable Attachment in Figure 10. FRAMs to suit the need of the OPALS has chosen an n three phases: launch rst of these phases has f a Falcon 9 and Dragon n ch on which OPALS is  o f a Demonstration  o f the primary ISS and e racted with at various e cycle 


  manifested will mark the third SpaceX flig h Commercial Resupply \(CRS\tract and m first SpaceX CRS flight extensively red e external cargo.  These modifications inclu d updated Falcon 9 \(v1.1\nd a Drago n providing a suite of launch characteris t vibro-acoustic environmental ones, which characterized.  Since the OPALS Syste m Review \(SRR\ early 2010, the ongoin g of these interfaces has led to a net change o ISS requirements and essentially 100% c h Dragon requirements, including updates deletions Following a successful berth with the IS S phase to OPALS\222 operational destina t Utilizing the capable Mobile Servicing S y the Mobile Berthing System, Special P u Manipulator \(SPDM\d Space S Manipulator System \(SSRMS\ic operators on the ground will extract O berthed Dragon and again mate OPALS\222 F R to a powerp roviding element \(the E n Replacement Unit Temporary Platform o SPDM.  After a nearly two-day roboti c SPDM will again install OPALS onto FRAM, this time at its intended operation a nadir, port side-facing ELC 1 FRAM 8 correctly utilize these robotic componen t Figure 11: OPALS orientatio n 10 h t under NASA\222s m ore notably, the e signed to carry d e a significantly n block upgrade t ics, particularly are not yet fully m Requirements g characterization o f 37% of the 694 h ange of the 117 additions and S the translation t ion can begin y ste m 227including u rpose Dexterous S tation Robotic elements\227ISS PALS from the R AM underbelly n hanced Orbital o r EOTP\ the c translation the another Passive a l location on the Figure 11 t s, 222 interface requirements are provided, the verified by use of a certified s t performed, OPALS will be the firs t type of robotic transfer In the event of a robotic continge n astronauts to intervene and ac c transfer towards final installation o standardized FRAM handholds o n could manipulate OPALS if the n interface is made possible wit implications for OPALS, though o p as orientation and timing, do ex i contingency crew member intera c Figure 10: The FRAM provides a the LV, the robotic arm and th e  n relative to the ISS at its operational location on EL C majority of which are t andard FRAM.  When t payload to undergo this n cy, capabilities exist for c omplish the remaining o f OPALS.  By using the n the ExPA, astronauts n eed were to arise. This h out additional design p erational concerns, such i st.  To implement this c tion, up to 2 weeks of a common interface for e ISS mounting points C 1, FRAM 8 


  unallocated planning would be required Finally, in the third interface phase, the O P installed and ready to operate on its ELC w its full suite of interfaces available. They i n avionics and software interfaces, which operations to commence OPALS will be the first payload installed o Even with a standardized specification means many questions, capabilities, and i addressed for the first time in p arallel w development and in collaboration with I engineers Safety Interface JPL engineers regularly design complex sent far into space never to interact wi t launch.  As a result, the human safety c o OPALS responded to have introduced n e every aspect of the design.   This experie n only learning how to navigate the pro approval from the technical experts on th e Review Panel \(PSRP\ the design, but solve engineering problems from a safety p not compromising technical goals The formal interaction between the pay l such as the OPALS project, and the PSRP series of Flight Safety Reviews \(FSRs  reviews the project and the panel iden t hazards created b y the payload and dec controls to keep those hazards from causi n either personnel or the ISS.   A safety submitted 45 days prior to a formal FSR review and comment. The submission i s presentation and hazard report walk-thro u takes a full day or two as all safety concer n are discussed and addressed The first meeting with the PSRP was a which focused on identifying applicab verifying that the appropriate requirem e referenced.  OPALS started at a time whe Figure 12: OPALS project milestones re l 11 P ALS FS will be w here it will have n clude electrical will enable full o n this new ELC a new interface i ssues have been w ith the OPALS I SS and SpaceX systems that are t h humans after o nsiderations that e w challenges in n ce involved not cess of gaining e Payload Safety also learning to p erspective while l oad developers occurs through a   th es e t ify all potential ide on a set of n g any damage to data package is for the PSRP to s followed by a u gh, which often n s and comments Phase 0 review le hazards and e nts were being n documentation was transitioning from shuttle req u documents so the initial meeting which standards are applicable to t h initial hazard assessment with th e some potential hazards the proj e Additionally, it helped guide th e choices that later could have sno w would have been difficult to progressed toward the more formal OPALS\222 Phase 1 review was s e project\222s PDR and reflected a fair time leading up to this review the p class 4 laser that required the h classification \(catastrophic\and i controls for all possible operation a the safety review OPALS discuss e with various members of the PRS P design approaches for controls r hazards from actualizing.  These meetings were essential leading i n the design then required minimal c h 1 review. This preparation had t h developing a strong relationship b members and the OPALS team The Phase 2 review typically fol l Design Review \(CDR\OPAL S formal technical interchange meeti n to review its hazards and solid i method of controlling them. With identified and most of the contro l debate, the Phase 2 review covere d testing and the supporting doc u p articularly strong focus on veri avionics and the hazard controls computer system controls a haz a Control System \(CBCS\trix m outlines the requirements for that meets the requirements, and the demonstrate complian h e into the high-level software archite level registers and memory man a reviewed by the Computer Safety l ative to the safety milestones outlined in NSTS 13830 and Data Submittal Requirements u irements to ISS-specific focused on establishing h e OPALS payload.   The e PSRP helped identify e c t had not considered e project\222s early design w balled into hazards that change as the design Phase 1 review e veral months after the l y mature design. In the p rojec t settled on using a h ighest level of hazard i dentified a number of a l scenarios.   Going into e d these choices in depth P to identify options and r equired to prevent the earlier discussions and n to the formal review as h anges to pass the Phase h e additional benefit of b etwee n the safety panel l ows a projec t 222s Critical S however, requested a n g \(TIM\with the PSRP i fy concurrence on the the hazard sources well l s requi r ing little further d the details of hardware u mentation and had a fication of the OPALS it governs.   When a a rd, a Computer Based m ust be developed that syste m the design that verifications planned to completed matrix delves cture as well as the lowa gement. This system is Panel \(CSP\ and if the Payload Safety Review 


  12 panel chair agrees with the approach he or she recommends it for approval to the PSRP. After many tweaks and focused discussion outside of the full PSRP the OPALS CBCS matrix was approved for Phase 2 As Phase 3 approaches, all agreed-to verifications of hazard controls must be performed, documented, and submitted Any deviations from the agreed-to verifications must be documented and approved by members of the PSRP In addition to the Flight Safety Reviews \(FSRs\und Safety Review schedule is also negotiated and a package is submitted.  This process is very similar to the PSRP one, but the scope of the hazards is limited to ground operations at the launch and processing facilities The key to successfully passing the FSRs has been constant early, and open communication with the PSRP. It has allowed for the quick identification of hazards and it has prevented the project from locking itself into designs that either could have adversely impacted safety or could have made compliance significantly more difficult. The PSRP and everyone involved in the safety side of the interface have shown great flexibility in allowing OPALS design freedom to ensure its mission success while enforcing a high standard for the safety of the ISS and those inhabiting it 5  D RIVERS   C ONSTRAINTS  AND R ESULTING I MPLEMENTATION  OPALS is no exception when it comes to facing the typical challenges that most space flight projects have to overcome throughout their lifecycle. Cost and schedule always seem insufficient. The workforce is sometimes stretched thin. All these challenges create constraints, end up driving the decision-making process and inescapably shape the final product. There are, however, many aspects that set OPALS apart from the average space borne instrument, and they too came with their own drivers and constraints Overall, the drivers and constraints can be classified as internal and external, with each category further divided into process- or technically-flavored This section is dedicated to examples, spanning each of those categories, of drivers and constraints that have in one way or another influenced the implementation of the project Internal, Process-Derived Drivers and Constraints The aspects falling under this section refer to those whose common denominator is the internally-mandated JPL process. The most influential and prevailing of these processes are documented in the JPL Design Principles and JPL Flight Project Practices. These documents provide guidelines on everything from cost, schedule reserves and technical margins to the pedigree of the parts and components used by the flight article and the level of documentation required Class D 227The biggest impact on the project, second only to the stringent cost cap, was the decision to implement it as a Class D payload risk classification per NASA NPR 8705.4 This decision was less of a constraint than it was a driver and it ultimately gave the project more flexibility in making decisions. The ramifications of this decision are many including the risk posture of the project in parts selection sparing philosophy, hardware handling requirements qualification program, fault protection, and extent of formal verification of requirements Early on in its lifecycle, the project sought to define the Class D implementation approach within the guidelines set by NASA procedural requirements. Specifically the project was allowed to 200  Build one proto-flight model with limited engineering models \(EMs\he only subsystem to have a full EM is the avionics. Other EMs include the acquisition camera one motor driver, and the in-house developed power board 200  Limit parts sparing to long-lead items only. The project only purchased one spare actuator and a few of the avionics cards. There are no spares for the laser, power board, camera, or any structural components 200  Use COTS hardware wherever possible. This aspect is discussed in further detail in a subsequent section 200  Forgo radiation or parts support. The extensive usage of COTS components implies, to a large extent, the absence of radiation susceptibility data, along with other environmental information. Thus, as early as the Mission Concept Review, the project and its stakeholders have accepted the potential missionending risk of unrecoverable single event upsets 200  Limit hardware and software Quality Assurance prior to system level integration and test. Typically, HQA/SQA involvement begins early in subsystem development well in advance of system I&T 200  Limit flight tech support to final torqueing and high risk procedures. The philosophy here is similar to the HQA/SQA involvement Requirements and V&V\227 Likely the most unglamorous aspect of producing a space-wo rthy payload is developing the set of requirements that govern its function and behavior. While Class-D status does not give the project a pass on developing requirements, it can shape the way the process is conducted and the extent to which requirements are developed For example, higher-class projects typically develop requirements down to level five or six, and bin them in dozens, if not hundreds of sets or modules. By contrast OPALS currently only has 782 requirements spread over 33 modules, with none of them containing more than 105 items. Of the 694 ISS requirements only 376 are applicable to OPALS, accounting for 48% of the total OPALS set Similarly, of the 117 launch vehicle requirements, only 58 are levied on OPALS. This means that the project has only 


  348 project-specific requirements that it in t verify. Figure 13 breaks down the requirements, including ISS and launc h residing at the various levels OPALS, however, is no poster child f development as it fell into the same trap t h projects\227regardless of size and risk verification and validation \(V&V\ time: it unnecessary requirements At CDR time OPALS realized that requirements it was signing up to verify d and testing, totaling almost 1300 \(796 OP A LV\, had become unmanageable give n schedule and cost-to-go. Shortly there a embarked on a months-long, projectevaluating its requirement set with the go a down to those that it couldn\222t justify not ve r By the time the Test Readiness Review c a later, the project had achieved an overall r Table 2\n the number of items it dee m verification Once again leveraging its Class D status from JPL management, the project decided 796 requirements it had written on itself 227 the ISS and launch vehicle ones\227 p rovide d others when it came to verification D explicitly verify a requirement meant one o f 1  The statement was deemed to be, in of a requirement and more of proced u on how something was to be done less of an instruction on how well s work and more of a documentatio n Without engaging in a detailed sem a the project changed the status of thes e requirement to policy. This meant t h still had to be implemented, but it di formally verified Figure 13: Two-thirds of the 782 OPAL S reside at the level 4 FS subsystem level the ISS and launch vehicle requi r 13 t ends to formally distribution of h vehicle ones f or requirements h at cripples many posture\227come developed many the number of d uring integration A LS + 529 ISS n the remaining a fter, the team wide effort of a l of trimming it r ifying explicitly a me nine months r eduction of 37 m ed important for and with bu y in that some of the 227 which excludes d less value than D eciding not to f two things some cases, less u ral specification while in others omething had to n on the design a ntics discussion e statements from h at the statement i d not have to be 2  The statement remained a r e not be explicitly verified at t written as the state-ofp r a Instead, its verification wou l parent at a higher level was order for a requirement to be a higher level it had to meet o criteria 200  It is enveloped by a larg e at a higher level; e.g flowdown, such as mass 200  Functionality/performan c higher level test\(s\ A N requirement will be app level tests. Put another cannot be verified at a h i meet that requirement w o in higher level test, the n requirement cannot be m o This process was a very time-int e number of individuals on the te thought to have saved the project a s and money in Phase D when the m a takes place There were, however, two excepti o applied to externally-levied IS S requirements, and those requirem e safety standards to be followed It is important to point out that the 421 requirements which were e v verification via this process shoul d but rather that the mission risk o f  one the project was willing t o underperformance of the system higher level testing. In doing so h had to accept an increased cost p roblems that might have been ca u caught until later during syste m significantly more expensive to fix S requirements These include r ements Table 2: Reduction achieved bet w number of requirements needi n Set  CDR  L1  1  L2 \(all  283  L3 \(all  216  L4 GS  66  L4 FS IRDs  158  L4 FS STR  188  L4 FS FSW  167  L4 FS Other  218  OPALS TOTAL  1296  ISS Total  468  LV Total  59  e quirement, but it would t he level at which it was a ctice usually dictates d become implicit if its successfully verified. In allowed to be verified at o ne of the following two e r \221capstone\222 requirement part of an allocation pointing budgets e can be rolled into N D failure to meet the arent in higher, syste m way, if a requirement i gher level OR failure to o uld not become apparent n the verification of that o ved to a higher level e nsive one for a limited am, but it is generally s a whole significant time a jority of the V&V effort o ns to this process which S and launch vehicle e nts which specified the argument is not that the v entually descoped from d not have been written f not verifying them was o accep t because any would be identified in h owever, the project also and schedule risk that u ght earlier, would not be m I&T when they are  w een CDR and TRR in n g explicit verification TRR  Change  1  0  230  19  138  36  28  58  61  61  101  46  109  35  158  28  823  37  411  12  39  34  


  Internal, TechnicallyD erived Drivers and C Equally instrumental in shaping the outco m were those decisions that were driven b aspects over which the project had decisio n In the same way that certain policy de c subsequent ones \(see Class D\ techni c a cascading effect throughout the design, p a Flight System COTS Usage\227 The most clear and pervas i the decision to utilize COTS parts whereve of the early conceptual architecture and des i was inherited from aircraftb orne syste m operated by JPL as recently as 2011.  In a n cost and complexity, the use of COTS c considered an attract ive option for the avio n risk of latent failure and unfamiliarity w i was essentially traded against the extrem e short lead times made possible by orderin g While the FS would evolve over time t o custom JPLb uilt boards and compon e implementation has left an indelible mark o n Traditional spacecraft and instrument elect r on strong conductive coupling to a temp e interface to maintain safe operat i Ruggedization is also common practi reliability in the vibration- and r a environments of launch and low-Ear t p ractices, however, are often impractical o r with COTS avionics, where the cost o ruggedizing for flight would surely dwar f components themselves. The OP A implementation, for example, comprises a and electrical components that are desi g forced-convection cooling in a r o environment. They have relatively little or Figure 14: Cross-sectional view of fligh t container showing arrangement of c 14 C onstraints m e of the project b y the technical n making control c isions impacted c al decisions had a rticularly for the i ve example was e r possible. Much i gn of the project m s designed and n effort to reduce c omponents was nics design \226 the i th the hardware e ly low cost and g 223off-the-shelf.\224 o include several e nts, the COTS n the FS design r onics boxes rely e rature-controlled i ng conditions ce to improve a diation-intensive t h orbit. These r even impossible o f modifying or f the cost of the A LS avionics series of boards g ned to receive o o m temperature no tolerance for extreme temperature, humidity, o r thus present significant technical c thermal control The ISS in particular poses an ad d and constraints owing to the n a payloads are installed and opera t docking at the ISS, OPALS is rem o SpaceX Dragon trunk.  During thi s p oints throughout the subsequent r o attach site on ELC1, the FS must a loss of power for up to six h architecture is therefore built maintaining a \223laboratory envi operations.  The flight avionics su b critical components like the l a distribution circuitry, is conta i cylindrical enclosure that maintai n environment throughout the nomin a highlighted in Figure 14, 120mm D found in everyday desktop compu t the air across the avionics compon e heat exchanger assembly.  By rec fashion, waste heat is transferre d avionics boards and components, t h and into the heat exchanger where i external radiator.  Further, the loss from a loss of electrical power to effective means of insulating the loss during said periods \226 gas c dominant, though negligible, mod e microgravity environment p rovi d natural convection The decoupling of heat transfer structural interfaces renders stan d finite volume heat transfer c necessitates an iterative anal y CAD/CAE and computational flui d to solve for characteristics of the fl u of the OPALS avionics enclosure  envisioned a cuboid structure wit h heated air from the electronics assembly.  Early rounds of CFD a n unacceptable pressure losses in t h turning and relatively narrow cro s the duct.  Over time, the iterate d streamline the flow path, result i b etween the fans and heat exchan cable routing to eliminate as ma n main flow path as possible. This i t results in a design that is com p cheaper to analyze, as well as more build. Figure 16 shows a velocity final design The relatively severe vibration e launch vehicle posed yet another avionics \226 most of which do  t system sealed c omponents r vacuum operation, and hallenges in maintaining d itional set of challenges a ture in which external t ed.  Upon arrival and o ved robotically from the s process, and at various o botic transfer to its final a ccommodate a complete h ours. The OPALS FS around creating and r onment\224 for nominal b system, along with other a ser diode and power i ned within a sealed n s a 1-atmosphere \(STP a l life of the payload.  As D C fans, not unlike those t ers, drive circulation of e nts and through a ducted irculating the air in this d convectively from the h rough the air mass flow i t is then conducted to an of circulation that resul t s the payload provides an flight system from heat c onduction becomes the e of heat transfer, as the d es no mechanism for paths from traditional d ard finite element and c odes ineffective, and y sis process between d dynamics \(CFD u id flow.  Early concepts  Figure 15\or example h a long duct to transfer to the heat exchanger n alysis, however, showed h e flow due to repeated s s-sectional areas within d design has evolved to i ng in a single \223turn\224 g er, and optimization of n y obstr u ctions from the t erative process naturally p utationally simpler and practical to fabricate and map of fluid flow in the e nvironment within the challenge for the COTS not even ship with a 


  15 manufacturer specification for vibration tolerance.  To deal with this issue, the rigid tray assembly that houses the avionics and fans is mounted on a system of wire-rope isolators designed to dampen random vibrations within the specific frequency spectra produced by the launch vehicle These isolators protect delicate solder joints and other nonrugged components from being torn apart by launch loads Further, in much the same way as the loss of circulation during power outages provides a natural means of insulation against heat loss, the wire rope isolator system\222s poor thermal conductivity also impedes conduction to the outer structure of the sealed container External, Process-Derived Drivers and Constraints While many decisions were internally motivated by the JPL processes and the OPALS paradigm, a significant number also came via the ISS and launch vehicle interfaces, both programmatically and technically As one might anticipate, the ISS interface in particular impacted the OPALS day-to-day operations as well as the design features it implemented. The most clear example of this aspect came via the over 400 requirements imposed by the ISS program on the OPALS payload, followed by the V&V process mandated to demonstrate compliance Requirements 227As one of the first payloads to negotiate both the ISS and Dragon interfaces, OPALS has been routinely involved in technical changes beginning and ending with its interface requirements.  A considerable ongoing effort within OPALS and its partners has been to solidify the understanding of the requirements levied When OPALS began in 2009, the Dragon had neither flown nor been fully designed.  This was best represented in the miniscule 16 provided requirements that were largely placeholders for what would  become the Dragon\222s interface specification.  At that point, expectations were that OPALS would be completed well before its Dragon flight. This schedule disconnect led to a considerable technical disconnect In order to proceed with OPALS development despite the lack of a full set of design requirements assumptions had to be made in three key areas: power, connectivity, and the launch environment.  The first question of power came about for an obvious reason: OPALS has thermally sensitive optics and commercial equipment, and these components need heater power to be kept warm in space.  Without requirements on Dragon power provisions, the project\222s first assumption was that the thermal control hardware designed for the on-orbit ISS environment would also prove valid during a Dragon ascent.  After exhaustive integrated thermal analysis, this assumption, and the resulting engineering implementation, has proven to be valid, and an additional 12 pages of requirements and supporting data now reflect this interface design After requirements were negotiated and an agreement was reached to provide sufficient thermal power during ascent the question remained of how this power would be routed into the OPALS payload.  To direct the efforts towards a solution of connectivity, OPALS turned to the JAXA H-II Transfer Vehicle \(HTV\d Space Shuttle designs that powered FRAM-based payloads similar to OPALS.  These additional carrier requirements allowed several connectivity options and it was thus taken to be a valid assumption that the Dragon team could design around OPALS\222 desired cabling pin assignments.  The OPALS design was thus submitted to SpaceX and, as this was the first request for a specific option, the OPALS connectivity solution has become the primary power distribution option amongst external Dragon cargo requirements The project\222s greatest challenge, however, was the need to design the FS prior to receiving any validated launch  Figure 15: Early design of the sealed container did not optimize component pl acement or airflow  Figure 16: CFD analysis led to a new component layout that allowed for more efficient heat removal 


  16 loading requirements.  To address this, OPALS began with JPL and NASA\222s extensive historical data on expected launch loads, amended with ample margin and overlaid with standard levels on workmanship. The resulting crude spectrum was then supplied to the ISS and SpaceX dynamics teams who over the course of several months helped refine test plans to a conservative but agreeable level, which again proved to be valid \(and indeed conservative\via integrated analysis and testing. At the time of this writing OPALS had successfully completed vibration testing Lastly, the project has dealt with the uncertainty that comes via requirements variability from the ISS interface. Since OPALS began, 37% of the 694 ISS interface requirements have changed. Even though only 376 of them are applicable to OPALS, the project has had to maintain cognizance in this regard over the full set.  Despite the fact that the ISS is an operational facility and many components have been flying in orbit for several years, both OPALS and the ISSP are still learning about the function and performance of these components.  As such, there have been ample updates to the electrical and robotic interface requirement segments These requirement changes are executed methodically in a thoroughly reviewed manner.  After internal ISS coordination, pending requirement updates are quickly disseminated amongst payload developers.  After external review by existing and prospective payloads, signatures are requested and requirements are enacted V&V 227Verification and Validation includes the final work done to certify both that the payload meets the word of the requirements, and that it performs the intended function 55% of OPALS\222 requirements to be verified are provided by its external interfaces, including the ISS and Dragon Though verified along with all other project requirements these interface requirements demand a different balance of focus.  As these requirements are provided by external entities they are managed outside of JPL and subject to external verification.  OPALS, therefore, has no formal validation program for these requirements beyond ongoing interface systems engineering diligence.  While this externalized approach minimizes internal efforts, it simultaneously increases verification  overhead Verification of each external interface requirement falls under the cognizance of an external Discipline Engineer DE\d the OPALS verification program is built around this external approval process, which is diagramed in Figure 17.  These external engineers represent the external hardware expertise necessary to ultimately understand validate and approve all interactions with their hardware.  It is important to note that these engineers support a multitude of projects across geographic boundaries, and their ability to provide dedicated attention to OPALS is attenuated by the breath of the projects they support Internal to OPALS, an abundance of verification data is generated for these DEs in the verification of the 452 external requirements.  The planning, technical coordination, and direction of this work is coordinated between the OPALS External Interface Engineer and the cognizant engineers within OPALS. As data and plans have been generated over years of interaction among these organizations, it is incumbent upon the EIE to ensure internal consistency and remedy problems across evolving interfaces External, Technically-Derived Drivers and Constraints The ISS-imposed requirements provide the specification for the physical interface to the station, and, via the PSRP process, also provide direction on meeting the safety considerations that come with the Class A status of the ISS This section will highlight how technical specifications from the ISS impacted aspects of the OPALS design Mass & Power Budgets 227Most payloads will find the ISS allocation for mass and 28V operational power to be quite generous at 490 lbs. \(excluding the top half of the FRAM\227 the ExPA plate\d 504 watts, respectively. The ISS also provides 750 watts on a 120V operational line and an additional 300 watts of power on a 120V heater line Expected to come in under 400 lbs., OPALS fits well within its mass allocation. In fact, at no point in its development did the OPALS mass margin\227calculated as \(AllocationCBE\llocation\227fall below 15%, and since CDR it has been hovering around 30%. The 28V ops power margin has been even more generous, hovering at or above 60% for much of the projects lifecycle, while the 120V ops and 120V heater lines have seen equally generous margins of over 60% and 70 %, respectively In space, mass and power are drivers more often than not For OPALS the opposite has been the case, to the point where the excess allocations has been used to solve problems in other areas. One such example has been the  Figure 17:  The OPALS ISS requirement verification process is built around th e ISS approval process 


  design of our gimbal. At nearly 70 lbs., th e to be severely overdesigned for the 3 lb supports. However, the need for such a b forced by the early selection of the actuat o long-lead items and had to be large enou g the optical head in the absence of launch lo time, by the yet unknown design of the opt under certain configurations, could have b e lbs. Knowing that mass would likely not p roject was thus able to save cost by avo the mass of the gimbal while at t accommodating an unknown optical hea d lack of launch locks The power draw of the electronics was concern since one of the benefits of havin g is that their power draw is well known a n fluctuate greatly over time. If there was o n p ower draw required more active manage m 120V heater line which is shared by the IS S launch vehicle, of which the latter had si stringent and fluctuating requirements Designing to a Class A Interface 227Of all t h interface, the safety-related ones likely impact on the OPALS design. There are features that owe their existence to the nee d the two-fault tolerant design against cat a mandated by the PSRP. The payload h a combination of three hardware and softwar each of the two catastrophic hazards that w e the inadvertent usage of the 2.5 watt clas s shining the laser outside of its approved a r The hardstops limiting the travel of each a x constitute two of the inhibits required to pr e Via a negotiation process with the PSRP, t h upon the area around the ISS where it wo u Figure 18: OPALS Field of Regard \(red  Motion \(yellow\ver the O C station 17 e gimbal appears optical head it b eefy design was o rs\227which  were g h to immobilize cks\227and, at that ical head, which e en well over 10 be an issue, the iding optimizing t he same time d design and the even less of a g COTS avionics n d is unlikely to n e area where the m ent was on the S and the SpaceX gnificantly more h e aspects of the had the largest a number of FS d to comply with a strophic failures a d to include a e inhibits against e re identified: \(1 s 4 laser, and \(2 r ea of operations x is of the gimbal e vent the latter h e project agreed u ld be allowed to p oint the laser, referred to as the From this not-to-exceed area, the p allocation to allow for uncertai manufacturing. Using these derate gimbal to keep the laser within Figure 18\ela t nadir\he ROM extends from a p in the gimbal azimuth axis  approximately 1 373 to 38 373 in the crosstrack\erally speaking range limits the length of each pas s while the size of the elevation frequently a pass occurs. This is mission success is at odds with m yield to it. Were it not for the ne e operation of the laser due to safet y would have enjoyed longer and m o improving its chances of meeting it s In addition to the hardstops, meeti n mandate requires that the des i microswitches, two relays, soft w p rotection, and operational const r with the Huntsville Operations Sup p and function of these inhibits were d MOS Interface 227The main drive r implementation was the availabili t operations tools, processes, and in fr payloads. Although drivers are so m negative impact on development opposite was true. The OPALS leverage existing capabilities as mu development of new tools and proc e Several remote operations tools ar e from MSFC and JSC for telemet r management, schedule viewing, tel e over-IP. Table 3 details the a v function. The OPALS MOS has i tools with only a minor amou n required. Given the wide array of t responsibilities of OPALS MOS simplified to development of the ephemeris processing, generati o generation of telemetry and comm a decision-making and execution  analysis In addition to tools, OPALS has al s great deal in the area of operati o depicts the interface support pr o Marshall Space Flight Center and Directorate \(MOD\e Johnso n  general, MOD handles the overall with tasks including crew operat i orbital reboosts, docking activiti e MOD defines its interface with O P Rules that govern power, attitu d restrictions on payload activity T   and Range of C TL ground Field of Regard \(FOR r oject further derated the n ties in modeling and d values it designed the the expected Range of t ive to the ISS +Z axis p proximately -34 373 to +73 373   alongtrack\d from gimbal elevation axis the size of the azimuth s over the ground station range determines how a clear example of how m ission safety and must e d to restrict the area of y considerations, OPALS o re frequent passes, thus s level one requirement  n g the two-fault tolerance i gn also include four w are ar m fire command r aints to be coordinated p ort Center. The purpose d iscussed in sectio n 3  r for the OPALS MOS t y of significant existing fr astructure for ISS-based m etimes seen as having a in this case quite the MOS has attempted to u ch as possible to avoid e sses and thus save cost e available free of charge r y processing, command e metry query, and voicev ailable tools and their i ncorporated all of these n t of tool configuration t ools available, the prime development has been operations concept, ISS o n of file products a nd databases, operations  and troubleshooting s o been able to leverage a o ns processes. Figure 19 o vided by the POIC at the Mission Operations Space Flight Cente r In ISS platform operations i ons, robotic operations e s, and attitude control P ALS via a set of Flight d e, trajectory, and crew T he POIC, on the other 


  hand, provides the infrastructure to commands and file products to the paylo a infrastructure to receive and relay real-tim e the payload. The agreements between the POIC to ensure proper operation, m monitoring of the payload are docume n Regulations. In addition, the POIC maintai n p rocess for planning payload activities a n those activities into the larger ISS schedule Activity planning and scheduling begins 8 launch and continues up to 7 days before t h it is included in the ISS Short Term Pl OPALS operations are time critica l commanding by members of the POIC O will be designated with priority over activities in the STP. During real-time Payload Operations Director at the PO I interface for the OPALS payload and provi d inputs for activity coordination with t h Director. The expectations of the payload d it will provide a clear set of science object i set of data and planning requirements need e those objectives. For OPALS, these documented in the OPALS Ops Conce p delivered to the POIC and MOD 18 mo n anticipated launch date. It is also expected operations team will submit a formal t r participate in training exercises with the P other ISS payloads. The POIC offers two f l activities: scenario training and simulation t Scenario training exercises MOS execu t specific processes while simulation trainin g familiarity with ISS interfaces, coordinatio n MOD entities, and decision-making in t h anomalies. The scenario activity resembles operational readiness test \(ORT\ in Table 3: Existing operations t o Tool Operations F Telescience Resource Kit \(TReK Telemetry Proc e Telemetry Disp l Telemetry Data b Command Man a Command Data b Enhanced HOSC System \(EHS Telemetry Que r Database Sync h HOSC Networ k Internet Voice-over-IP IVoDS Voice Loops Payload Information Management System PIMS File Transfer Operations Cha n On-board Short Term Plan Viewer \(OSTPV ISS Schedule V 18 relay real-time a d as well as the e telemetry from payload and the m aintenance, and n ted as Payload n s a well-defined n d incorporating  8 months before h e activity, when an \(STP\ince l and require O PALS activities conflicting ISS operations, the I C is the prime d es the necessary h e MOD Flight d eveloper are that i ves along with a ed to accomplish prod u cts were p t document and n ths prior to the that the payload r aining plan and P OIC, MOD, and l avors of training t raining t ion of payloadg exercises MOS n with POIC and h e event of ISS what is called an the JPL flight development process, while the si m to the ISS program due to the diversity of the ISSP interfaces. F members are available on conso l OPALS MOS in a flight-like oper a role of the Flight MOS and Grou n react appropriately to nominal and relayed by the POIC over the voic e expected to obey all Flight Rules a in the execution of their acti v p roficiency with all operations pr o OPALS and external \(e.g. ISS 6  C ONCLUS I The development of the flight payl o two factors: \(1\ interfacing with th e sense and a programmatic one, an d as a Class D risk classification payl o The ISS physical interface provide d but one that was greatly facilit a standardized FRAM and by the g e allocations. The latter have afford e flexibility in making design decis i the expense of the still generous m a Operating on the ISS also mean t facility and of the astronauts it ho s all other considerations. As such O in a series of inhibits to provide t w catastrophic hazards identified despite being a Class D payloa d typically affords significantly mo r project\222s risk posture for mission s u on safety. The ISS-driven pro c scrutinizes this aspect can be d a navigate it, projects need to pla n significant impacts in both tech n areas, while keeping in close c PSRP The internal decision to implemen t p ayload also had significant impli c led to the widespread use of CO T o ols F unctions e ssing l ay b ase Build a gement b ase Build r y h ronization k Access n ge Requests iewer Figure 19: OPALS cross-agenc y m ulation activity is unique sheer complexity and or both exercises, POIC l e to interface with the a tional environment.  The n d MOS teams will be to off-nominal notifications e loop. The teams will be a nd Payload Regulations v ities and demonstrate o cesses, both internal to I ONS  o ad was largely driven by e ISS, both in a physical d 2\ng implemented o ad d a significant constraint a ted by the use of the e nerous mass and power e d the project significant i ons that reduced cost at a ss and power margins t that the safety of the s ts took precedence over O PALS has had to design w o fault tolerance for all This limitation comes d a classification which r e latitude in defining a u ccess but has no bearing c ess that oversees and a unting. To successfully n and accommodate for n ical and programmatic ommunication with the t the project as a Class D c ations for the design. It S components, which in  y operations interfaces 


  19 turn lead to a design that required forced convective cooling and vibration dampening, both uncommon for modern-day space payloads. Furthermore, it allowed the project flexibility in tailoring its verification and validation program for non-ISS requirements to save cost and schedule The focus of space-borne instruments is usually on the flight articles, which in the case of OPALS is the FRAM-based payload to be externally installed on the ISS. However most, if not all, projects must also develop a ground infrastructure to support the operations of the flight asset For OPALS, despite being more akin to an instrument than a spacecraft, that was certainly the case as significant development was required for both the optical ground station to enable the transmissi on of a beacon and receipt of the optical downlink for the former, and for the MOS to support commanding and telemetry The use of the OCTL facility in California greatly reduced the amount of development required to receive and process the optical downlink, and to transmit the beacon needed by the FS to locate the ground station. The development was thus restricted to the optics needed to condition the light beam for processing by the hardware receiver and the software decoder The design of the MOS was, by and large, dictated by the interface to the ISS\222s expansive payloads operations infrastructure located at Ma rshall Space Flight Center Because the interface was already mature and well understood, the project\222s efforts were primarily focused on ensuring compatibility rather than developing its own capability. The savings afforded by leveraging the existence of the already operating infrastructure cannot be understated A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The authors express their gratitude to the entire OPALS team for their dedication and hard work, and to the mentors that have guided the team on a path to success. The authors acknowledge all of the OPALS team members, whose technical contributions made the writing of the paper possible.   The work described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES    J  C e s a r o n e  D  S   A b ra h a m s  S  S h am b a y a ti  a n d J   Rush, \223Deep space communications, visions trends and prospects,\224  In Proc. Int. Conf. Space Opt. Syst. Appl  Santa Monica, CA, May 11\22613, 2011, pp. 412\226425  m ati 223 S pecial s ec tion guest editorial: free space optical communications.\224 Opt. Eng 0001 51\(3\031201-1-031201-1 doi:10.1117/1.OE.51.3.031201 3 Hen n i g er, an d O. W ilf ert A n i n tro d u ctio n to f r ee space optical communications Radioengineering 19.2 pp. 203-212, 2010 4 Risk Classification for NASA Payloads NASA Procedural Requirements NPR 8705.4, 2008  P h aeton Early C a reer Hire Dev e lop m ent P r og ram  R. M Jones, J. Lim. 2012. Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology. 19 Oct. 2012 http://phaeton.jpl.nasa.gov/internal/index.cfm 6 ard  B  So lish  M. Seib ert, K. Kilb rid e  S. Do n g   and T. Coffee. \223Bridging the Generation Gap : A Rapid Early Career Hire Training Program,\224 in AIAA Space 2008 Conference pp. 1-13   B i s w a s H. He mm ati S. P i azzolla, B  Mois ion  K  Birnbaum, and K. Quirk, \223Deep-space Optical Terminals DOT\ms Engineering.\224 IPN Progress Rep. 42183. Nov. 15, 2010  Hem m a ti A B i s w as I.B D j o r d j ev ic  D eepS pace Optical Communications: Future Perspectives and Applications," in Proceedings of the IEEE  vol.99 no.11, 2011, pp.2020-2039 9 Lucke, Robert L., et al. "Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean: instrument description and first images Applied Optics 50.11 \(2011\ 1501-1516 10 M  C o r s o n  D  K o r w a n  R  L u c k e  W  S n y d e r  C   Davis, "The Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean HICO\ the International Space Station," in IGARSS 2008 pp.IV-101-IV-104  T e les c ien ce R e s o u r ce K i t J. Onken. 2012. Marshall Space Flight Center. <http://trek.msfc.nasa.gov 12  Payload Safety Review and Data Submittal Requirements National Space Transportation System NSTS 13830, 1998 13 Computer-Based Control System Safety Requirements  Space Station Program SSP 50038, 1995 B IOGRAPHIES  Bogdan Oaida is the Project Systems Engineer for OPALS. He received a B.S.E. in Aerospace Engineering in 2007 and a M.Eng in Space Engineering in 2008, both from The University of Michigan. Since joining JPL in 2008, Bogdan has also worked on a number of Earth-sensing mission proposals and has participated in several TeamX studies JPL\222s concurrent engineering environment 


  Matt Abrahamson i s Operations Lead for received a B.S E ngineering With Technology in 2006 a A eronautics and Astro n both from MIT. He L aboratory Fellow from since joining J PL has worked on flight o p EPOXI, Stardust-NExT, Juno, and Daw n mission navigator  Robert Witoff is the I S Systems Engineer for received a B.S E ngineering from the Colorado at Boulder i p ursuing a Masters in S o E ngineering at Stanford A pigy Inc, Robert joine d has additionally worked on the Daw n Interplanetary missions J essica Bowles Martin e and Mission Assuranc e OPALS. She receive d  E lectrical Engineering Science and B.S. in Co m Studies in 2003 at th e I nstitute of Technolog y earned a M.Eng in Elec Engineering from Johns Hopkins Universi t J PL in 2008, she has held various ro l radiation testing for Juno, research in N A Parts Packaging program, and an ISS b a assembled telescope project  Daniel Zayas is the T h both OPALS and t h L aboratory, a planne d Condensate experime n I nternational Space received B.S. degrees E ngineering and Physic s A erospace Engineerin g M assachusetts Institute of Technology.  H e contributed to a number of planetary m including JUNO and the Mars Science L a Curiosity   20 s the Mission OPALS. He in Aerospace Information a nd a M.S. in n autics in 2008 was a Draper 2006-2008 and p erations for the n projects as a S S and Dragon OPALS.  He in Aerospace University of i n 2009 and is o ftware Systems  After founding d JPL where he n and Rosetta e z is the Safety e Manager for d a B.S.E. in and Computer m parative Media e Massachusetts y In 2006 she trical Computer t y. After joining l es working on A SAs Electronic a sed robotically h ermal Lead for h e Cold Atom d Bose-Einstein n t aboard the Station.  He in Aerospace s and a M.S. in g all from the e has previously m issions at JPL a boratory rover 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Initial Analysis Activities Flights departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving within a date and time range Flights between city pair A,B Flights between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a volume on a date. \(sector, center, etc boundary Flights passing through a volume within a date and time range Flights passing through an airspace volume in n-minute intervals All x-type aircraft departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving on a date between city pair A,B Flights departing or arriving on a date between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a named fix, airway, center, or sector Filed Flight plans for any of the above Actual departure, arrival times and actual track reports for any of the above 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial SPSS Applications Show all tracks by call sign 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case For a given Airspace Volume of Interest \(AVOI compute distinct traffic volume at some point in the future  Aim to alert on congestion due to flow control areas or weather if certain thresholds are exceeded  Prescribe solution \(if certain thresholds are exceeded Propose alternate flight paths  Use pre-built predictive model  SPSS Modeler performs data processing Counts relevant records in the database \(pattern discovery Computes traffic volume using statistical models on descriptive pattern Returns prediction with likelihood 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  24 Pulls in the TRACKINFO table of MAIN using SQL Limits the data to database entries which fall inside the AVOI Combines the SOURCE_DATE and SOURCE_TIME to a timestamp that can be understood by modeler Computes which time interval the database entry falls in. The time interval is 15 minutes Defines the target and input fields needed for creating the model Handles the creation of the model Produces a graph based off of the model results Final prediction 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Cognos BI Applications IBM Cognos Report Studio  Web application for creating reports  Can be tailored by date range, aircraft id, departure/arrival airport etc  Reports are available with links to visuals IBM Framework Manager  Used to create the data package  Meta-data modeling tool  Users can define data sources, and relationships among them Models can be exported to a package for use with Report Studio 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 1 of 3 Report shows the departure date, departure and arrival locations and hyperlinks to Google Map images DeparturePosition and ArrivalPosition are calculated data items formatted for use with Google Maps Map hyperlinks are also calculated based on the type of fix 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 2 of 3 DeparturePosition, Departure Map, ArrivalPosition and Arrival Map are calculated data items \(see departure items below DepartureLatitude DepartureLongitude DeparturePosition Departure Map 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 3 of 3 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Conclusion and Next Steps Current archive is 50 billion records and growing  Approximately 34 million elements per day  1GB/day Sheer volume of raw surveillance data makes analytics process very difficult The raw data runs through a series of processes before it can be used for analytics Next Steps  Continue application of predictive and prescriptive analytics  Big data visualization 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Questions and Comments Paul Comitz Boeing Research & Technology Chantilly, VA, 20151 office Paul.Comitz@boeing.com 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  31 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a key, value list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of key, value pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


