Performance Analysis of Incremental Update of Association Rules Mining Approaches Muhaimenul Adnan Department of Computer Science University of Calgary Calgary Alberta Canada adnanm alhajj barker cpsc.ucalgary.ca Abstract For applications where the nature of the data is evolving i.e when database is updated at regular time intervals with insertion and deletion of records maintenance of mining models is obviously the desired alternative if possible Several algorithms have been proposed that can maintain minng models and can update the association rules if the data base is updated without rebuilding the miing models for the updated database In this paper we present a through performance study of one of such incremental model maintenance algorithm 9  
both on real data and synthetic data and identify the potential bottleneck of the algorithm I INTRODUCTION With rapid computerization of business and as more and more stored data are becoming available there has been an increasing focus on data mining Since its introduction in 1 the frequent pattern mining has become one of the most researched topics in data mining and several algorithms have been proposed to find the frequent patterns in a database The domain of frequent pattern mining is closely related to association rule mining and market basket analysis The task of frequent pattern mining is to identify the set of items that is commonly purchased together Once the set of frequent itemsets are identified we can 
easily identify the associations among the itemsets Market basket example is used for illustration purpose only association rule mining is also useful in other domain of applications such as electronic commerce recommender system medical diagnosis system etc A formal definition of the problem of association rule mining given by 1 8 Let I  il i2  imI be a set of literals called items Let D be a set of transactions where each transaction T is a set of items such that T c L Each transaction in the database D is given a unique identifier called its TI A transaction T is said to contain an itemset X if X c T The support ob\(X of an itemset X in D is the 
fraction of the total number of transactions in D that contain X Let or\(O  a 1 be a constant called minimum support An itemset X is said to be frequent on D if OD\(X  a The set of all frequent itemsets L\(D a is defined formally as L\(D a  X  X c I AD\(X oj An Association rule is an implication of the form X  Y whereXcI YcIandXu Y TIhe ruleX  Yhas a support a in the transactional database D if o of the transaction in D contain X u Y The rule X  Y holds in the transactional dataset D with confidence c if c of the transaction in D that contain X 
also contain Y Given a set of transactions D the problem of mining association rules is to generate all association rules that have support and confidence greater than the minimum support o and 0-7803-9474-7/05/$20.00 C IEEE Reda Alhajjl 2 Ken Barker 2 Department of Computer Science Global University Beirut Lebanon minimum confidence c respectively The association rule mining task can be broken into two steps step 1 identifies all frequent k-itemsets from the data base and in step 2 we can generate rules from these large itemsets in a relatively straight forward way Most of the association rule mining models assume that the input data is static and do not take into account what the mining models should do when 
dataset is updated Most of them resolve this issue by rebuilding the whole mining model by scanning the entire old and new dataset because database updates can invalidate the existing rules and can introduce new ones But this method is not a feasible idea for many applications if the database updates occur frequently It is a very challenging task if we want to maintain the mining models without building the models from the scraps For applications where the nature of the data is evolving that is when database is updated at regular time intervals with insertion and deletion of records maintenance of mining models is obviously the desired alternative if possible Several algorithms 4 5 6 7 9 have been 
proposed that can maintain mining models and can update the association rules if the data base is updated without rebuilding the mining models for the updated database In this paper we present a thorough performance study of one of such incremental model maintenance algorithm both for real data and synthetic data and identify the potential bottleneck of the algorithm The rest of paper is organized as follows Section II formally defines the problem of incremental model maintenance for association rule mining Section III describes some of the related work in the field Section IV presents the detailed outline of the Apriori algorithm and the incremental model malignance algorithm described by 9 and used in the experimentation purpose of this 
paper Section V presents the results of the experimental work Section VI is conclusions II PROBLEM STATEMENT Let at time t we have the transactional dataset D Here D consists of a set of transactions and each transaction is identified with a transaction identifier TID Now let us assume that at time t+l the database is updated such that a set of transaction d is added to the database and a set of transaction df is deleted from the dataset So the resulting modified database Da can be represented as D  D U d d The incremental model maintenance algorithm can be defined as to find the mining model corresponding to the updated database D from the mining model which 129 


corresponds to the database D without building the mining model from scraps HI RELATED WORK Several algorithms have been proposed for the incremental maintenance of association rules In 4 the FUP algorithm is proposed for the maintenance of discovered association rules in large databases Here each iteration is associated with a complete scan of the whole database 4 5 and 6 all belong to the same class of candidate generation and test and they all require k scan to discover the large itemsets where k is the length of the maximal large itemset On the other hand 9 proposed an incremental algorithm which requires at most one scan of the whole data base to find the set of frequent patterns for the updated database Algorithm Apriori Input Transactional Database D Output Set of frequent itemsets of all length Method liCk Candidate itemset of size k Lk frequent itemset of size k LI  large l-itemsets for k  2 Lk   k do begin Ck  candidates generated from Lkl forall transaction t E D do begin C  candidates from Ck that are contained in t forall candidates c e Ct do c.count end L={c e CkIc.count>minsup end return jkLk Figure 1 Algorithm Apriori Step 1 Join H join Lk-l with Lk-l itself insert into Ck select p itemI p item2  p itemk1 q.itemk I from Lkl p 4-1 q where p.item1  q item1  p itemk-2  q.iteMk2 p.itemkJI  q.itemk-j Step 2 Prune H delete all ce Ck such that some k-l subset of c is not in Lk-l forail itemsets c E Ck do forall k-l subsets s of c do if s L4-1 then delete c from C Figure 2 Candidate Generation IV MINING FREQUENT PATIERNS Agrawal et al 2 We will also describe an incremental frequent pattern mining algorithm proposed by Thomas et al 9 that works with Apriori which is level wise in its nature of mining frequent patterns This incremental mnining algorithm makes use of a negative border to miine the frequent patterns A The Apriori Algonithm The Apriori algorithm makes multiple passes over the data to find the frequent itemsets of all length In the first pass it counts the support frequency of individual items and determines which ones of them are large i.e have ninimum support In the subsequent passes it uses the large itemsets generated from the previous pass to generate the new potentially candidate large itemsets and count the support of these candidate itemsets during the pass to find out whether they are indeed frequent Figure 2 give the pseudo code of the algorithm The Apriori algorithm generates candidate itemsets in a pass by considering the large itemsets in the previous pass only The intuition behind this is that an itemset can not be frequent if all the subsets of that itemset are not frequent This can be done by joining Lk with Lk itself and then pruning all subsets that are not in Lk This process results in generation of a much smaller number of candidate itemsets The candidate generation consists of two steps the join step and the prune steps Analysis The Apriori algorithm is level wise in nature It requires multiple database scan to find the support count for a potentially large candidate itemsets which can be very time consuming More over the Apriori algorithm requires generating a large candidate itemsets in each level especially in the level two and three which can also be a very time dependent task So it is our belief that mining with the apriori approach every time new data set arrives may not be a suitable option B The Incremental Algorithm This approach was independently proposed by both Thomas et al 9 and Feldman et al 7 for discovering frequent sets from large databases Along with large itemsets this approach also maintains a Negative Border The negative Border NBd of D at minimum support threshold or is the set of all infrequent itemsets whose proper subsets are all frequent The formal definition of negative border given by 8 NBd\(D o  X X c I ojD\(X  a A VYC X a\(DQ  oJ here ois the minimum required support TABLE I PARAMETERS OF SYNTHETIC DATA SET Average transaction size 10 Average size of maximal potentially large 5 itemsets Number of items 1000 Number of transactions 100k In this section we will discuss the renowned Apriori algorithm for mining frequent patterns proposed by 130 


The algorithm uses this NBd to decide when to scan the whole database This algorithm can be used in conjunction with the algorithm Apriori The Algorithm uses the following observations for the addition of transactions regarding negative borders to compute the large itemsets for the incremented database  The NBd consists of all itemsets that were candidates of the level-wise method which did not have enough support i.e Lk UNBd\(Lk  Ck  Let s be any itemset such that s is not frequent in the old database D Then s can only be frequent in the updated database D U d only if it is frequent in the increment database d  If a new itemset s becomes frequent on D U dt then either s or one of its subsets are in the NBd of D Each of these observations can be proved The basic outline of the algorithm is given below  Compute the large itemsets of the increment database  Update the list of large itemsets of the whole database updated database using these large itemsets of the increment database  Check to see whether there are any changes in the Negative Border of the updated database  The algorithm requires a full scan of the whole database only if the NBd of the large itemsets expands In these cases the algorithm has to compute the negative border closure of large itemsets of all length L by repeatedly finding L  L u NBd\(L until L does not grow  Even in such cases only one pass over the whole database is required So we can see that the incremental approach avoids the multiple scan of the whole database that is required if we want to calculate the frequent itemsets with the algorithm Apriori alone This incremental algorithm can easily be modified to accommodate deletion of transactions too V EXPERIMENIS In this section we will describe the results of the experiments we have conducted to evaluate the performance of the incremental mining algorithm by 9 W  The experiments were performed on both synthetic data and real data The synthetic data were generated by using the technique described by Agrawal and Srikant 2 The synthetic dataset has the following properties Fig 3\(a c shows the result of our experiments on the synthetic data set We have performed three sets of experiments on this data set based on the size of the increment data sets The First 100-x  of the transactional database of size 100k is used for initial computations and x of the database is used as the increment database We report the result of the experiments where the size of the increment data base is 10 5 and 1 of the whole data set on different support thresholds We can see from the experimental results on the synthetic dataset that the incremental approach performed much better than running Apriori on the whole dataset Fig 3\(d presents the speed up ratio of the incremental approach and we can see that for most of the cases the speed up ratio is over 1.5~2 So the incremental approach performed much better than running the Apriori on the whole data set for the synthetic data We also performed our experiments on real datasets This real data contains retail market basket data from an anonymous Belgian retail store and it was donated by Tom Brijs 3 This transactional data base consists of over 16000 items and contains 18163 transactions Fig 4\(a d represents the experimental results on the real data set We can see from the experimental results that in most of the cases the incremental algorithm does not perform better than running the Apriori algorithm on the whole data set This phenomenon can be explained by the fact that the real data set contains 16470 different items and computing the negative border closure on such a large itemsets is certainly time-consuming because of the sheer large number of length two and three candidate large itemsets Although it requires only scan of the whole database the time to compute the negative border closure and the time required to compute the count of the negative border closure outweighs the time for multiple database scan as required by the Apriori I Oft s f<gtX Figure 3\(a line to Build increment database is 10 of D 131 


g 2a3 Time t Tinmet rf3.3 O Figure 3\(b o Th-thad t Figure 3\(d Performance Ratio for Different Increrents 132 o Build increment database is 1 of D Supp Build increment database is 5 of D VAW Tf-W 33 F Figure 3\(c 


4 1X.9'\2436 a a F mm A X Figure 4\(a Tire to Build increment database is 10 of D F F m C9 44 tJ vw}S Figure 4\(b Time to Build increment database is 5 of D I K W~t Thr.*Od O Figure 4\(c Time to Build incremnent database is 1 of D 133 a Ti s 4m 1 M 


Performance Ratio for Different Increnents VI CONCLUSIONS In this paper we have presented a performance study of an incremental association rule mining algorithm by 9 both on synthetic and real data sets Our experimental results show that for transactional data sets when the number of items is small this particular incremental algorithm performed much better than the data sets with lot of items because the time required to compute the negative border closure is much higher for the dataset with a large number of items So this particular incremental algorithm is not suitable for big retail store data where the number of different items can be huge REFERENCES 1 R Agrawal T Imielinski and A Swami Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases Proceedings of ACM-SIGMOD pp.207-216 Washington D.C 1993 2 R Agrawal and R Srikant Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules Proceedings of the International Conference on Very Large Databases Sept 1994 3 T Brijs G Swinnen K Vanhoof and G Wets The use of association rules for product assortment decisions a case study Proc of ACMKDD San Diego pp.254-260 1999 5 D.W Cheung V.T Ng B.W Tam Maintenance of Discovered Knowledge A case in Multi-level Association Rules Proceedings of ACM-KDD pp.307-310 1996 6 D.W Cheung S.D Lee B Kao A general Incremental Technique for Mining Discovered Association Rules Proceedings International Conference on Database System for Advanced Applications 1997 185-194 7 R Feldman Y Aumann A Amir and H Mannila Efficient Algorithms for Discovering Frequent Sets in Incremental Databases Proceedings Workshop Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 1997 8 Venkatesh Ganti J E Gehrke and Raghu Ramakrishnan DEMON Mining and Monitoring Evolving Data IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering Vol 13 No.1 pp.50-63 2001 9 S Thomas S Bodagala K Alsabti and S Ranka An Efficient Algorithm for the Incremental Updation of Association Rules in Large Databases Proceedings the International Conference on Knowledge Discovery in Databases 1997 4 D.W Cheung J Han V.T Ng and C.Y Wong Maintenance of Discovered Association Rules in Large Databases An Incremental Updating Technique Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering pp.106-114 1996 134 Figure 4\(d 


among items that appear in the transactions document as shown in Figure 3. Let us set the minimum support minsup  let $src:=document  transactions.xml   let $minsup:=2 let $total:=count\($src let $c:=distinct-values\($src let $l:=\(for $itemset in $c let $items:=\(for $item in $src where $itemset=$item return $item let $sup:=\(count\($items where $sup&gt;=$minsup return &lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt; {$items} &lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; {$sup} &lt;/support&gt lt;/largeItemset&gt let $L:=$l return &lt;largeItemsets&gt;{FP-growth\($l,$L,$minsup,$total,$src lt;/largeItemsets&gt  The XQuery expressions for the FP-growth are as follows define function FP-growth\(element $l, element $L, element minsup, element $total, element $src let $f-item:=first item in $L let $l-item:=last item in $L let $T:=getl-itemsets\($src, $total, $minsup return &lt;items&gt join \($l-item, $T lt;/items&gt let $l:=$l-items let $L:=remove\($l for f-item in $L where $f-item != $l-item return  FP-growth \($l, $L, $minsup, $total, $src   define function getl-itemsets\(element $src, element $total element $minsup let $l:=\(for $itemset in $src where $itemset=$l-item return $itemset let $sup:=\(count\($l where $sup&gt;=$minsup return &lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt; {$item} &lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; {$sup} &lt;/support&gt lt;/largeItemset&gt   Figure 4 shows all the large itemsets generated by our XQuery queries  lt;largeItemsets&gt lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt lt;item&gt; B &lt;/item&gt lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; 7 &lt;/support&gt lt;largeItemset&gt lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt lt;item&gt; A &lt;/item&gt lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; 4 &lt;/support&gt lt;largeItemset&gt  lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt 


lt;items&gt lt;item&gt; C &lt;/item&gt  lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; 4 &lt;/support&gt lt;largeItemset&gt  lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt lt;item&gt; D &lt;/item&gt lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; 2 &lt;/support&gt lt;largeItemset&gt  lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt lt;item&gt; E &lt;/item&gt lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; 2 &lt;/support&gt lt;largeItemset&gt lt;/largeItemsets&gt  Figure 4 : Large Itemsets document \(large.xml  Item    conditional  conditional    frequent pattern pattern base    FP-tree           generated E     {\(BAC:1 BA:1 BAE:2 D    {\(B:1 BA:1 C    {\(BA:2 B:2 BAC:2 A    {\(B:4}                      &lt;B:4&gt;              BA:4  Table 3: Mining FP-tree  7. Conclusion  In this paper, we presented the XQuery expression of the FP-growth method from XML data We use the FP-growth algorithm to generate the large itemset document, and then select all association rules from the large item set where support is greater than or equal to the minimum support. We have proposed frequent pattern tree \(FP-tree growth method, FP-growth. There are several advantages of FP-growth over other approaches. It constructs a highly compact FP-tree, which is usually substantially smaller than the original database, and thus saves the costly database scans in the subsequent mining processes. It applies a pattern growth method which avoids costly candidate generation and test by successively concatenating frequent 1-itemset found in the \(conditional divide-and-conquer method which dramatically reduces the size of the subsequent conditional pattern bases and conditional FP-trees. To our knowledge, the FP-growth method has been implemented using the query language XQuery, without pre-processing or post-processing of the data. Many issues remain open, one of the issues concerns the structure of the XML data. Since the structure of the XML data can be  very complex and irregular, identifying the mining context on such XML data becomes difficult. Our current and future research in this area focuses on investigating what other standard data mining algorithms can be expressed in XQuery  References  1] PMML 2.1 Predictive Model Markup Language http://www.dmg.org, March 2003 2] World Wide Web Consortium. Extensible Markup Language \(XML Second Edition 


Language \(XML Second Edition Recommendation. http://www.w3.org/XML 3] Xyleme. http://www.xyleme.com 4] Lucie Xyleme. A dynamic warehouse for XML data of the web. IEEE Data Engineering Bulletin, 2001 5] World Wide Web Consortium. XQuery 1.0: An   XML Query Language \(W3C Working Draft http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/WD-xquery-20020816, Aug 2002 6] World Wide Web Consortium. http://www.w3.org 7] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases. In P Buneman and S. Jajodia, editors, SIGMOD93, pages 207  216 Washington, D.C., USA, May 1993 8] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases. In J. B. Bocca, M. Jarke and C. Zaniolo, editors, Proceedings of 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, pages 487  499 Santiago, Chile, September 12-15 1994 9] D. Braga, A. Campi, M. Klemettinen, and P. L.  Lanzi Mining association rules from XML data. In Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Data Warehousing and Knowledge Discovery \(DaWaK 2002 Provence, France 2002 10] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A query language for database mining. 1999 11] R. Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. A new SQLlike operator for mining association rules. In The VLDB Journal, pages 122  133, 1996 12] A. Termier, M.-C. Rousset, and M. Sebag. Mining XML data with frequent trees. In DBFusion Workshop  02, pages 87  96        pre></body></html 





 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 1 21416181 Time \(epoch counts 0.6 0.9 1.0 a MinMaxLoad WC 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 1 21416181 Time \(epoch counts 0.6 b SS2 Figure 4 Space needed at node R to store answer synopsis S A  non-distributed single-stream case In contrast when SS2 is used to set the precision gradient Figure 4b the space requirement is almost an order of magnitude greater This difference in synopsis size occurs because in SS2 frequency counts are only pruned from synopses at leaf nodes so counts for all items that are locally frequent in one or more local streams reach the root node No pruning power is reserved for the root node and therefore no count in S A is ever discarded irrespective of the  value The same situation occurs if Algorithm 2b is used instead of Algorithm 2a This result underscores the importance of setting  1  in order to limit the size of S A  as discussed in Section 2.1 3.4 Communication Load Figure 5 shows our communication measurements under each of our two metrics for each of our three data sets under each of the ve strategies for setting the precision gradient listed in Table 3 First of all as expected the overhead of SS1 is excessive under both metrics Second by inspecting Figure 5a we see that strategy MinRootLoad does indeed incur the least load on the root node R in all cases as predicted by our analysis of Section 2.1.2 Under this metric MinRootLoad outperforms both simple strategies SS1 and SS2 by a factor of 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 INTERNET2 AUCTION BBOARD SS1 SS2 MinRootLoad MinMaxLoad_WC MinMaxLoad_NWC 247k 10k 296k 132k 20k counts transmitted \(per epoch a Load on root node R 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 INTERNET2 AUCTION BBOARD SS1 SS2 MinRootLoad MinMaxLoad_WC MinMaxLoad_NWC 43k    21k 52k   19k 23k   7k counts transmitted \(per epoch b Maximum load on any link Figure 5 Communication measurements k denotes thousands ve or more in all cases measured However MinRootLoad performs poorly in terms of maximum load on any link as shown in Figure 5b because no early elimination of counts for infrequent items is performed and consequently synopses sent from the grand-children of the root node to the children of the root node tend to be quite large As expected MinMaxLoad NWC performs best under that metric on all data sets For the AUCTION data set even though SS2 outperforms MinMaxLoad WC to be expected because of the high  value our hybrid strategy MinMaxLoad NWC is superior to SS2 by a factor of over two For the I NTERNET 2 and BBOARD data sets the improvement over SS2 is more than a factor of three On the negative side total communication not shown in graphs is somewhat higher under MinMaxLoad WC than under SS2 increase of between 7.5 and 49.5 depending on the data set 4 Related Work Most prior work on identifying frequent items in data streams 6 8 9 19 only considers the single-stream case While we are not aware of any work on maintaining frequency counts for frequent items in a distributed stream setting work by Babcock and Olston does adProceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


dress a related problem In the problem is to monitor continuously changing numerical values which could represent frequency counts in a distributed setting The objective is to maintain a list of the top k aggregated values where each aggregated value represents the sum of a set of individual values each of which is stored on a different node The work of assumes a single-le v e l communication topology and does not consider how to manage synopsis precision in hierarchical communication structures using in-network aggregation which is the main focus of this paper The work most closely related to ours is the recent work of Greenwald and Khanna which addresses the problem of computing approximate quantiles in a general communication topology Their technique can be used to nd frequencies of frequent items to within a con“gurable error tolerance The work in focuses on providing an asymptotic bound on the maximum load on any link our result adheres to the same asymptotic bound It does not however address how best to con“gure a precision gradient in order to minimize load which is the particular focus of our work 5 Summary In this paper we studied the problem of nding frequent items in the union of multiple distributed streams The central issue is how best to manage the degree of approximation performed as partial synopses from multiple nodes are combined We characterized this process for hierarchical communication topologies in terms of a precision gradient followed by synopses as they are passed from leaves to the root and combined incrementally We studied the problem of nding the optimal precision gradient under two alternative and incompatible optimization objectives 1 minimizing load on the central node to which answers are delivered and 2 minimizing worst-case load on any communication link We then introduced a heuristic designed to perform well for the second objective in practice when data does not conform to worst-case input characteristics Our experimental results on three real-world data sets showed that our methods of setting the precision gradient are greatly superior to na  ve strategies under both metrics on all data sets studied Acknowledgments We thank Arvind Arasu and Dawn Song for their valuable input and assistance References  R Agra w a l and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules In VLDB  1994  I Akamai T echnologies Akamai http://www akamai.com   A Ak ella A Bharambe M Reiter  and S Seshan Detecting DDoS attacks on ISP networks In PODS Workshop on Management and Processing of Data Streams  2003  A Arasu and G S Manku Approximate quantiles and frequency counts over sliding windows In PODS  2004  B Babcock and C Olston Distrib uted top-k monitoring In SIGMOD  2003  M Charikar  K  Chen and M F arach-Colton Finding frequent items in data streams In International Colloquium on Automata Languages and Programming  2002  E Cohen and M Strauss Maintaining time-decaying stream aggregates In PODS  2003  G Cormode and S Muthukrishnan What s hot and whats not Tracking frequent items dynamically In PODS  2003  E D Demaine A Lopez-Ortiz and J I Munro Frequency estimation of internet packet streams with limited space In European Symposium on Algorithms  2003  DynaServ er R UBis and R UBBos http://www.cs rice.edu/CS/Systems/DynaServer   eBay Inc eBay  http://www.ebay.com   C Estan and G V a r ghese Ne w directions in traf c measurement and accounting In SIGCOMM  2002  M F ang N Shi v akumar  H  Garcia-Molina R Motwani and J Ulmann Computing iceberg queries ef“ciently In VLDB  1998  P  B Gibbons and Y  Matias Ne w sampling-based summary statistics for improving approximate query answers In SIGMOD  1998  P  B Gibbons and S T irthapura Estimating simple functions on the union of data streams In Symposium on Parallel Algorithms and Architectures  2001  M Greenw ald and S Khanna Po wer conserving computation of order-statistics over sensor networks In PODS  2004  J Han J Pei G Dong and K W ang Ef cient computation of iceberg queries with complex measures In SIGMOD  2001  Internet2 Internet2 Abilene Netw ork http abilene.internet2.edu   R M Karp S Shenk er  and C H P apadimitriou A simple algorithm for nding frequent elements in streams and bags ACM Trans Database Syst  2003  H.-A Kim and B Karp Autograph T o w ard automated distributed worm signature detection In Proceedings of the 13th Usenix Security Symposium  2004  A Manjhi V  Shkapen yuk K Dhamdhere and C Olston Finding recently frequent items in distributed data streams Technical report 2004 http://www cs.cmu.edu/˜manjhi/freqItems.pdf   G S Manku and R Motw ani Approximate frequenc y counts over data streams In VLDB  2002  Open Source De v elopment Netw ork Inc Slashdot http://slashdot.org  Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


12] S. Fujiwara, J. D. Ullman and R. Motwani, Dynamic Miss-Counting Algorithms: Finding Implications and Similarity Rules with Confidence Pruning. Proceedings of the IEEE ICDE \(San Diego, CA 13] F. Glover  Tabu Search for Nonlinear and Parametric Optimization \(with Links to Genetic Algorithms  Discrete Applied Mathematics 49 \(1-3 14] M. Klemettinen, H. Mannila, P. Ronkainen, H Toivonen, and A. Verkamo, Finding interesting rules from large sets of discovered association rules. Proceedings of the ACM CIKM, International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(Kansas City, Missouri 1999 15] C. Ordonez, C. Santana, and L. de Braal, Discovering Interesting Association Rules in Medical Data. Proceedings of the IEEE Advances in Digital Libraries Conference Baltimore, MD 16] W. Perrizo, Peano count tree technology lab notes Technical Report NDSU-CS-TR-01-1, 2001 http://www.cs.ndsu.nodak. edu /~perrizo classes/785/pct.html. January 2003 17] Ron Raymon, An SE-tree based Characterization of the Induction Problem. Proceedings of the ICML, International Conference on Machine Learning \(Washington, D.C 275, 1993 18] N. Shivakumar, and H. Garcia-Molina, Building a Scalable and Accurate Copy Detection Mechanism Proceedings of the International Conference on the Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries, 1996 19] P. Tan, and V. Kumar, Interestingness Measures for Association Patterns: A Perspective, KDD  2000 Workshop on Post-processing in Machine Learning and Data Mining Boston, 2000 20] H.R. Varian, and P. Resnick, Eds. CACM Special Issue on Recommender Systems. Communications of the ACM 40 1997 Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence  ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


