Communications Across Complex Space Networks Dan Allard Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 818-354-4344 Daniel.allardgjpl.nasa.gov Abstract 12 Complex space missions face the challenge of reliably maintaining the definition content and context of information across distributed and evolving space networks This requires architectural abstractions of information relationships and services e.g XML schemas and messaging infrastructures Over seven years of field study of the SharedNet distributed military communication system along with Interplanetary Communications Network Infrastructure ICNI and 
Interplanetary Information Services IIS space network research efforts have demonstrated the benefits of an Object-Based Communications Architecture OBCA for space software development and integration The OBCA has also been shown to be capable of providing reliable content-based publish-subscribe need only data delivery in a space-based communications environment using a JPL developed space link simulator This paper shall describe findings of these efforts explain relevant benefits for complex space network communications and suggest further avenues of study in this domain TABLE 
OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION  1 2 OBJECT-BASED COMMUNICATIONS ARCHITECTURE   2 3 SHAREDNET SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT 4 4 RESEARCH STUDIES  5 4 CONCLUSIONS  10 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT   11 REFERENCES  11 BIOGRAPHY  11 1 INTRODUCTION The next several decades of space flight will see an exponential growth in the complexity of spacecraft communications 1 While modern communications tend to be simple bi-directional links even counting communications 
through relay the next generation will see groups of space assets interacting with each other local 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2IEEEAC Paper 1581 Version 2 Updated October 22 2007 Joseph Hutcherson Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 818-393-5132 Joseph.Hutcherson\(jpl.nasa.gov human controllers and distant ground systems Traditional approaches in which individual point-to-point communication is tightly controlled and sequenced will be insufficient to handle the 
magnitude and dynamic nature of network traffic Current modes of communication involve ground systems engineers directly commanding spacecraft and receiving telemetry through expected downlink channels Space-based relays are becoming more prevalent for both uplink and downlink sessions Recent missions such as MER have pushed forward into the realm of autonomy with greater levels of decision-making made on-board the craft however communications routes tend to be the same even in these cases The Constellation program proposes space networks on the Moon and Mars 
of significantly greater complexity in terms of the total number of communicating network nodes Groups of robots are expected to perform coordinated actions according to directions from human controllers as well as machine awareness of self and other robots involved in coordinated activities The amount of data produced by a single spacecraft already is greater than the capacity of the downlink stream to manage 1 With greater numbers of robots producing science and engineering data the problem of managing distribution 
of data becomes increasingly need-driven Network software must ensure that the right information gets to the right destination based upon the relative priority of such data With Constellation networks expected to grow rapidly and dynamically the complexity of properly managing priority-driven distribution grows exponentially This trend is further exacerbated by space network communications conditions particularly long links with a high degree of data loss Besides the problems inherent in actual deployed communications there is also the challenge of 
development and particularly integration of distributed space network systems Stovepipe development where groups work separately until an integration point is reached has long been the bane of software development in terms of the great and unexpected costs of integration End-to-end information will continue be generated by a range of development teams that must find ways to avoid the stovepipes and build dependable information sharing systems Content and relationship must be clearly understood for 


development and perhaps more importantly integration of information systems to avoid costly integration cycles From 1997 to 2005 The SharedNet command and control system was developed in an attempt to address these very issues in the context of communication across military networks for the US Marine Corps The Marines faced issues with attempting to coordinate highly mobile dispersed units undertaking complex tasks subject to frequent communication outages and disruptions Additionally they were seeking new systems to reduce the decision cycle-time to increase the Marines operational agility The SharedNet system was designed along the lines of an Object-Based Communications Architecture OBCA capable of providing inter-system communication through distributed objects representing real-world entities and concepts The SharedNet system was further adapted to support communication across space link simulations under the 2005-2006 Interplanetary Communications Network Infrastructure ICNI task primarily to study the suitability of the Object-Based Communications approach to support demand access data delivery over a quality-of-service QoS aware communications layer More complex space network topologies were explored under the Interplanetary Information Services IIS task using SharedNet as adapted for space link communications by ICNI Additional research tasks investigated porting the object-level information distribution and management services of the SharedNet to the Asynchronous Message Service AMS and the Delay Tolerant Networking DTN protocol both emerging CCSDS standards The following material will describe a communications architecture that underlies the SharedNet software describe the development of provide an overview of the research performed with adaptations of SharedNet and offer further avenues of prototype and study 2 OBJECT-BASED COMMUNICATIONS ARCHITECTURE The following section describes the Object Based Communications Architecture OBCA underlying the SharedNet command and control software The architecture provides application layer sharing and distribution of model-defined information The architecture can be broken down into two primary components explicit models of shared information and event-driven object based communications layer Models of Distributed Information A fundamental building block of this architecture is the notion that shared distributed information is fully described by a model describing information content and relationship It describes run-time real time relationships across entities concepts and systems This model of information provides a common understanding across developers operators networks and system software alike The desire to achieve a common understanding about information in the system is not unique to any one system Modem missions such as MER describe mission information within abstract command and telemetry dictionaries using a human-readable XML format However the idea of a fully expressed information model is not part of current spacecraft development Models of distributed information manage high-level information context and mapping to lower level data This is important even with greater data delivery capacity and bandwidth considerations possibly more important as more systems are capable of sending more data In summary information models Define information relationships and content Maintain information meaning across systems Distributed Object Communications This proposed architecture incorporates the concept that application-layer communications is performed through distributed objects representing real-world entities and higher-level concepts All such distributed objects are fully defined within the information model both in terms of data content and associative relationships with other distributed objects Object communication clients subscribe to objects events for information to consume Communications through such distributed objects involves creation deletion and update of the object's state Applications create instances of the objects they produce information about and further update those objects as information state changes Applications further subscribe to object events create update and consume information events as they are received Types of distributed objects tend to fall into one of two general categories long-term persistent objects and shortterm transient objects Long-term objects typically represent longer-term real-world concepts e.g physical entities ongoing activities while short-term objects might involve directives reports etc On earth networks such as battlefield networks these distinctions are not likely to impact object handling 2 


are several key capabilities provided by the distributed object management layer including ri A publish/subscribe messaging model for data distribution This once the query is complete the query is instead aware subscription capability This allows applications to register for the information they need based upon the information model Li Information-aware update-only data distribution This allows information to be delivered automatically without explicit publication to those who have subscribed for it and for changes to previous information to be delivered using very little bandwidth ri Clearly defined and well-understood interfaces The object management API is relatively simple with the great bulk of the operational interface being the information model itself Figure 2 depicts the conceptual information bus that results from the aforementioned object-based communications approach Set up more persistent types Figure 1 below shows a layered view of an objectmanagement communications architecture Figure 1 Layered Communications Architecture The application layer interacts with the object communications layer through Link Tboera'_t can be sent more common Topic-Based Subscription that is the standard for the widely used Java Messaging Service JMS With topic based subscription and delivery publish and subscribe is performed however study of object management over long links suggests that these transient types should be treated differently than an object is created it is published and received by all clients subscribed to that object type and particular attribute settings Delete Object type Remove an object from the system Update Object Modify the attributes of an existing object within the system The information model defines the full interface to the object Subscribe type attributes customers based upon specific information criteria For increased network efficiency SharedNet nodes will only send data if there is an active subscription in place for it in effect pre-filtering information placed Commun rions Layer Event/Mesasae Based Space on that channel however there is no inherent restriction on what on the channel However with content-based delivery data is delivered to specific 3 App ication Layer DisLrhbuted GbJect Manement serves as a connection abstraction and provides applications with the ability to communicate information in manner information flow and network traffic is driven by client information needs in the form of subscriptions Query type attributes Request a relatively straightforward application programmers interface API including at least the following functions Create Object type Bring an object into existence in the system When on the network In this a logically organized decoupled manner ri Information on a topic-by-topic basis Each topic acts like a set of objects with the specified attributes from the system Note that this varies from Subscribe in that the requestor does not continue to receive object events a request for the latest object state Object-Based Communications Capabilities There a particular type and with particular attributes This notion of subscribe by attribute is a form of ContentBased Subscription with important differences to the a broadcast channel in that data is broadcast to any listeners a subscription for object events of 


across military networks in are not at all far from the modelbased information descriptions that are the backbone of the proposed object-based communications architecture An important unifying Activity concept c.f is described within such Mqd.Wfainsd 14bn b6malin 6N..ti an object-based communications architecture and just how far away an activity identifier is embedded alongside data within the downlink stream 3 SHAREDNET SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT SharedNet Development Overview The SharedNet system as MER MSAP and upcoming MSL describe mission information within abstract command and telemetry dictionaries using cma-te and de4ete Cbe tdlf3lbaad su beciibe Figure 2 Conceptual Information Bus View As shown publishing clients create update and delete objects no connection between publishers and subscribers In effect the OBCA enables 0 jec3t on the information bus Subscribing clients place subscriptions to be notified of information updates for particular classes of objects and attribute values There is otherwise we are from such we take a human-readable XML format Such schema-based descriptions of information was originally developed to support reliable command and control a battlefield environment Later research studies would adapt the SharedNet infrastructure to was on supporting communications in the military environment 4 The SharedNet system was required to provide visualization into battlefield activities across a range of scenarios involving entities interacting across military forces and to ensure a high fidelity of communication across these distributed entities Battlefield communications channels included not only reliable e.g Ethernet networks but also battlefield radio networks notable for low bandwidth and a high degree of data loss End-to-end communication could include data passing over any number of R/F links of varying bandwidth and quality from 2Kbps up to 1Mbps with packet loss anywhere from 1 to 500O With this range of performance most TCP based applications could not perform The primary impact of bandwidth restrictions on communications was the inability of radio networks to support distribution of all generated information from every producer to every consumer This led to a primary communication requirement that data would be transmitted according to relative priority as determined by data consumers A further requirement was that communications would take advantage of broadcast and multicast capabilities where possible Both time and bandwidth resources would be needlessly consumed sending N messages to N recipients on a point-to-point basis if one broadcast of the same message was possible To further complicate matters data was provided and consumed by a range of systems developed across Army Navy Air Force and Marines with development groups scattered across the country Many of these systems had been developed in an independent stovepipe manager and posed a formidable integration challenge Because of the cost and coordination difficulties system integration opportunities were relatively infrequent and needed to be of high value i.e maximize real time testing and minimize bug tracking and fixing Developers had neither time nor funding to support lengthy integration periods SharedNet Architecture As described earlier c.f SharedNet utilizes the notion that the content and relationships between all information distributed across networks is described by explicit Information Models Information contained in a model includes notions such as the state of an entity e.g position direction health etc and the relationship between one entity and another e.g friendly tank A is attacking hostile tank B Complex information models were developed to support the Integrated Marine Multi-Agent Command and Control System IMMACCS and Joint Task Force Wide-Area Relay Network JTF-WARNET projects These models defined classes that represented a range of command and control concepts from actual battlefield entities e.g tanks planes to events and situations e.g weather phenomena a specialized form of a blackboard information sharing architecture Achieving Object-Based Communications It is important to address up-front the question of just how much work it will take to achieve a goal To judge the scope of this problem a look at how recent missions describe and manage distributed information As mentioned earlier modern missions such a schema and a set of space network communications scenarios however the initial focus of development 


was soon demonstrated that the volatile nature of networks increased the likelihood of losing communications with a peer servers supporting greater partitioning and filtering of data and persistent clients capable of was to provide runtime objects defined by these models as the primary communication interface Rather than directives for action The next important architectural concept implemented by SharedNet an awareness of relative information value and were tested out in fielded conditions using actual radio links and military hardware and software GTall for FirE CFF Anhea  X1 F F Call Fo r Fire AO Area of I nterest 2 Friendly u WMik AOl 4 Alert message dl sbute to commandi and Omunrd units v-a Communications network Figure 3 on standard client-server notions where centralized aware of information priority Thus the communications layer needed servers supported data management for on military network information sharing while later adaptations focused on communications in the space network domain Military Communications Scenarios A were developed to understand the problems inherent in providing high fidelity information coherency SharedNet Battlefield Communications Scenario 5 1 ComrnMandacenter callsfr air stik CFF 3 ANoeht networ meni tor applicauons dect ft endly unit in A1 pulbishes alert wanlng mRessage  were no longer required Clients requiring information represented by these objects would subscribe to objects of server for long periods of time This finding led to the development of range of scenarios across battlefield entities and evaluate integration benefits Simple data simulations drove scenarios in early stages of development while in later stages scenarios a system sending a message to another a system would be responsible for creating information objects updating them with further changes to those objects and deleting them when they a certain type and possessing certain attribute values SharedNet would pre-emptively notify subscribed clients of the creation modification and deletion of those objects that matched their subscriptions SharedNet Development and Deployment An important early finding was the need for local persistence of in-transit data High link loss rates and poor connectedness resulted in the need for point-to-point data retransmissions requiring persistence of in-transit data To maximize the fidelity of information distribution the communications layer needed to be a view into the information model itself Early development of SharedNet centered a range of attached clients It a degree of self-sufficiency in terms of preserving and sharing the information state Through these evolutions SharedNet took a first step toward a peer-peer network from its client-server beginnings 4 RESEARCH STUDIES Overview The following section describes the prototype adaptations of the SharedNet software Early integration research focused so was implemented with 


A standard early scenario included the monitoring of a single hostile entity e.g a moving tank by neutral and friendly forces The state and location of this entity needed to be communicated correctly across military forces so that headquarters could react with the best possible response An important and significantly more complex scenario under evaluation was referred to as the Call for Fire CFF In this scenario a battlefield entity such as a fielded command post would call for an air strike on a hostile position However with any such attack there is the possibility that neutral and/or friendly units are unexpectedly within the strike range Such a situation is typically referred to as a friendly fire event and has led to significant loss-of-life in recent conflicts The CFF scenario is depicted in Figure 3 To anticipate and prevent friendly fire situations during scenario evaluations software agents were developed to monitor information traffic over the communications network monitor for CFF requests and generate further warning events in case it is determined that neutral and/or friendly units would be impacted by the attack Increasing the difficulty of this situation was the potential bandwidth limitations due to unrelated traffic and the time-criticality of warnings issued With link bandwidth limitations it was not possible to transmit all of the data generated by a system In the CFF scenario certain types of data e.g warning alerts generated by agents was clearly of a higher priority than other data e.g nominal status information Clearly priority data delivery would be a key requirement of a solution communications network JPL developed the SharedNet communications network software suite to provide an information infrastructure capable of supporting a high level of information visibility and context over these scenarios and ensure that such information was distributed according to priority across low bandwidth networks in a timely manner Integration Findings By design SharedNet is the communication bus between other specialized components of a larger system Those other components provide services such as translation of SharedNet object data to/from other systems end-user applications for operators and the computer-based agents providing monitoring and alert services These components have different goals and purposes but all utilize the common object model implemented by SharedNet As such design of the object model is critical to the success of all clients The OBCA clearly defines the interfaces and services between components of the system readily supporting decoupled development efforts A good number of integration issues were the result of clients expecting a specific usage of data in the system e.g required fields to be present or data created in a certain order not with the simple interfacing to the system or the ability to send/receive Perhaps the most important finding of the SharedNet prototype development was in determining that the underlying architectural approach was capable of providing high-fidelity communications over complex military network activities Such was the case during the successful deployment of SharedNet for JTF-WARNET demonstrations in particular the demonstration of the CFF scenario SharedNet information models centered on data relationships however it was suggested that higher-level information and control would improve model usability Modeled data was of the get and set type However actions might come in useful for example a tank.move could result in a directive to an individual unit Interplanetary Communication Network Infrastructure ICNI The Interplanetary Communication Network Infrastructure ICNI task was a technology development effort prototyping a flexible and robust information distribution system capable of differentiated levels of Quality of Service QoS and the ability to dynamically re-allocate communication resources in response to changes in the communication or operating environment One goal of ICNI was to demonstrate how space-based assets initially operating according to an established plan could autonomously re-allocate bandwidth between assets to handle an unexpected emergency and then revert to normal operations A second goal of ICNI was to demonstrate how a common prioritization scheme at the transmission layer could effectively support multiple users contending for common communication channels The components of the system were a Distributed Scheduler the Demand Access protocol and the SharedNet deployed across multiple space assets as shown in Figure 4 below Object model development requires integration up front This is not a trivial process However early exposure of information relationships is a valuable process in itself 6 


Qo/contended c annels I G~~~oS cobtbbddd c'a bl\247ne Figure 4 ICNI Configuration A JPL-developed Distributed Scheduler had been designed to coordinate the activities of different space-based assets 4 A component of the Scheduler would reside in each asset and control the sequence of activities to be performed including science and housekeeping operations communications and power management The Scheduler on each asset would exchange necessary information with other Schedulers in order to determine an overall sequence of events taking into account the criticality of the operation its impact on system resources and the temporal flexibility of the operation One such decision criteria was the view period of an orbiter from a surface asset that needed to upload data possible communication between the two such assets is strictly limited to certain times regardless of its priority The Distributed Schedulers were implemented as clients of SharedNet in order to exchange data A new space-based object model was developed for ICNI This object model implemented by SharedNet was structured around space assets and unlike previous military models included representations for the communication opportunities between assets in the form of Link objects A Link could represent a past current or future communication session between any two assets including the start time duration bandwidth priority and equipment assigned As Distributed Schedulers developed their sequence of activities they would create Link objects accordingly and would subscribe to notification of Link objects created by other Schedulers When a Link object was received such as a higher-priority communication request from another source the Scheduler on one node could choose to honor the new request and terminate reschedule or alter other activities if any Also in contrast to previous versions SharedNet was modified to react to the contents of Link objects as suggestions as to when it would be appropriate for SharedNet to attempt to send or receive data from the telecommunications subsystem In previous versions SharedNet had always treated the object model and data as opaque with respect to its core services and operations However storage and buffering aboard a spacecraft is limited and SharedNet needed to refrain from issuing data to the telecommunications equipment unless it was actively in contact with the correct receiver and of sufficient priority The JPL-developed Demand Access protocol provided the ability for one asset to break in to a communication session in progress between two other assets For example if a lander is communicating with an orbiter a second lander with a higher priority need could commandeer the communication with the orbiter The underlying assumption in the ICNI task was that the radio hardware was capable of detecting a demand access request while already in communication with another asset The Demand Access protocol also supported a range of five traffic priorities which were allocated from highest to lowest voice high priority data video medium priority data and low priority data By interleaving the human-driven traffic channels voice and video with computer data ICNI could effectively support a wide range of operational capabilities over a limited set of communication resources The SharedNet was modified to send data using the Demand Access protocol mapping its client-supplied subscriptions priorities including the Distributed Scheduler to the Demand Access priorities The creation of data including Link objects from the Distributed Scheduler by SharedNet clients would result in the issuance of a Demand Access requests if necessary One finding of the selected approach was the large amount of coordination information distributed as Link objects over the network Having SharedNet enable or disable its interface with the communications subsystem based on received Link object information posed a chicken-and-egg problem If it received notice to become disabled it would be unable to react to a command to become enabled Since the ICNI task the demand access protocol has continued to evolve An updated protocol description can be found in a 2007 publication A Demand Access Protocol for Space Applications 5 Interplanetary Information Services IIS The Interplanetary Information Services IIS task was funded to address higher level communications concerns complex space network topologies and complex distributed activities Investigated command and control over complex distributed space networks The IIS development activities included the description and development of software capable of managing communication over complex activity scenarios development of an Information Model representing distributed scenario information control and visualization 7 


graphical user interfaces all working over the link simulations developed under ICNI The first task of IIS was to identify a space software communications scenario of significant complexity to expose benefits and impacts of an OBCA in the space link environment We evaluated Constellation scenarios describing coordinated human and robotic activities on the moon and Mars and these certainly showed promise in demonstrating the capabilities of our distributed communications architecture However it was decided that the IIS should focus instead on a nearer-term Science Mission Directorate scenario We further evaluated the Mars Sample Return systems architecture 2 This architecture involves coordinated analysis between a lander and a sample-searching rover This provided a fairly complex communications scenario across the two landed assets multiple orbiters and ground systems However we felt this activity lacked the level complexity that would be generated by a group of interacting assets and so we turned our evaluation elsewhere We eventually decided that a joint CNES/ESA/NASA effort called NetLanders harbored the ideal scenario for our task NetLanders proposed though cancelled for 2003 involves at least four landers performing coordinated seismology measurements across the Martian planetary surface 3 We enhanced the scenario complexity by expanding the role of a relay orbiter to that of a science activity controller responsible for disseminating spacecraft directives and populating a final seismology report for downlink IIS Command and Reporting Scenario The overall flow of the initial IIS scenario was as follows The Earth Station generates a start science activity directive The activity directive equivalent to a modern spacecraft sequence is uplinked to the controlling orbiter The controlling orbiter receives the activity directive and initiates a begin seismology reporting activity The controller generates further sub-directives intended for NetLanders NetLander activity directives are downlinked as link opportunities become available As each NetLander receives a directive it commences a take seismology measurements activity As measurements are taken readings are sent back to the controlling orbiter as soon as link opportunities are available Once the controller determines that enough measurements have been taken it generates a seismology report and downlinks to the earth station at the next link opportunity Figure 5 depicts the components of the IIS demonstration We also developed a follow-up scenario involving a failover situation where a NetLander and the control orbiter coordinate the timing of a power system switch-over based upon the end of the overall seismology activity IIS Model Development To support our scenarios we required a model that fully described the information across our remote system assets We began by evaluating existing models utilized by SharedNet in the military environment as well as the model developed for ICNI activities Up to that point such models were typically designed upon existing notions of data relationships rather than higher-level information relationships In some respects these models might have been better referred to as data models built largely around is a and has a notions IIS required a model capable of relating information concepts such as what command related to what high level activity The IIS task used the baseline model developed under ICNI The ICNI model provided representations of relationships between assets equipment communications links and other physical and software network entities One way that IIS expanded the model was to incorporate the concept of an activity Carrying the notion of an activity allowed IIS to associate high-level goals with individual directives measurements and reports The activity acts as a connector within the model and became a key element to successful scenario development and execution Another concept introduced into the IIS model at least at inception was the idea that certain types of information were relatively transient as opposed to other information of longer lifetimes such as asset and equipment representations Figure 5Its Scenario Topology While building the expanded model it was difficult to guess 8 


1mntw d my m the full set of associations we would require up front As a development goal we hoped to minimize the number of model changes up front While we would miss a few key relationships that needed to be added with continued revisions of the model for the most part we over-designed with many more associations than we would really require Figure 6 below depicts the primary relationships that IIS software did take advantage of Figure 6 IIS Scenario Relationship Model Space missions such as MER already incorporate activity into operations however they do not current utilize explicit information models to associate activities with uplink and downlink products IIS Software Development IIS development included graphical user interfaces GUIs for control and visualization Control GUIs acted as ground system and space asset simulations producing uplink directives data measurements health and status and downlink reports as required IIS developed a separate visualization interface to display asset and activity state in real-time All of these components communicated through the same communications interface and information model elements IIS used the space link simulation communications software integrated under ICNI to stand in as space links A set of link objects was generated at the start of the scenario to represent all future communications opportunities Building the primary scenario required a certain amount of infrastructure code to be developed particularly for the management of applications The final scenario used a total of eight running applications these included six asset simulators four NetLanders an Orbiter and an Earth Station a visualization display and a link opportunity generator All of these applications except for the visualization display communicated over the ICNI/SharedNet communications middleware the visualization display was connected to each simulator via sockets to provide real time updates of simulator behavior Despite the large number of interacting applications end-toend integration time was not a significant part of the development cycle Indeed the second failover scenario was developed and integrated in a remarkably short time using the same information model definitions from conception to demonstration the failover scenario was implemented in approximately three days For our first integration attempt we ran the end-to-end system with full connectivity that is we allowed each asset to communicate with any other asset without restriction over the middleware layer We were able to demonstrate the complete science activity i.e from initial directive to final report as well as the failover scenario without significant problems However once we introduced distinct communications windows i.e one link at a time we ran into communications layer delays as the middleware attempted to resolve associations over disconnected links In some cases it would take several orbits to correct if the resolution attempt did not expire first With the large and complex information model it was non-trivial to disconnect unneeded associations that were creating the problem We identified this as an overall problem of coherency breakdown see Figure 8 The system failed to maintain the consistency of information relationships across the network Effectively we would have to tell the system not to resolve relationships over long links until data arrived Note that these coherency problems result primarily from long interstellar latencies Relatively short latencies such as those from a distributed lunar network should not have as great an impact In any case it is an area deserving of further study Figure 8 Breakdown of Information Coherency 9 Coherency of Obect Based Cornmunicahions   I_ _ 1 o  N..a a.BN  IIEIE  _ _ 1 F Of i i s js Apkc_ m _ v _ o__f I u 1be e e   _1 4 _n   


an object-based communications approach with persistent distributed objects is the problem of distributed information coherency Note that these impacts users It is also designed to support message routing along potentially multiple paths and support IIS Development Conclusions First and foremost IIS was able to demonstrate the complex network communications scenario over simulated space links The subscription-driven delivery approach did ensure that the right information would reach the correct consumers and importantly a good deal of intermediate data e.g individual measurement objects was not sent over the final downlink to earth until the report was complete An important finding was determining the low cost of scenario implementation Once the core software and original scenario was implemented a second scenario involving multiple coordinating assets in a failure-mode situation was implemented in a trivial amount of time Development metrics are shown in Figure 7 Figure 7 IIS Development Metrics The primary impact of the more or less mitigate the problems of coherency Again the most important finding of the IIS is that objectbased communications using use of as a CCSDS standard provides capabilities similar to JMS 10 but is designed to operate in resource-challenged environments The primary finding when modifying SharedNet to interface with either communication system was the difficulty in separating the tightly coupled object service layer and the reliable communication layer Given the development resources only partial integrations were attempted We are confident however that a redesign of the object service layer more accurately distilling the object layer from the communication layer would allow those services to be ported to any reliable publish/subscribe mechanism 4 CONCLUSIONS An important finding of the SharedNet development was in determining that the underlying architectural approach was capable of providing high-fidelity communications over complex military network activities With SharedNet in place a range of remote systems shared the same tactical picture of the battlefield environment Also important was the integration interface provided by the common model allowing distributed development across a range of clients leading to successful integration efforts ICNI demonstrated that the communications architecture could be adapted to the space link environment IIS demonstrated that the architecture could support complex network communications scenarios and successfully demonstrated an end-to-end science scenario IIS also exposed the impact of long links on the overall coherency of information across the network Other findings of these studies included the characterization of communications differences between the military and the space network domains The primary difference is in the long light-time across space links as opposed to military domains In the space network environment this was shown to have impacts on management of long distance object references Key similarities between the domains include the high level of network data lossiness and bandwidth restrictions driving the need for priority-driven delivery Avenues offurther study Projected Constellation space network activities involve numbers of interacting ground and space assets working autonomously as well as under partial and direct supervision by ground systems and in-situ astronauts While overall bandwidth may not be as limited as for many SMD missions it must still be considered a commodity in that bandwidth resources are still fundamentally bounded Additionally we must carefully manage the flow of emergency data so that it does not get lost or left behind are largely from long Earth-Mars type links a local planetary Lunar/Mars network will a common information model is capable of managing complex communications scenarios in the space link network environment Work with AMS and DTN Additional research tasks involved replacing the proprietary reliable communication layer developed as part of SharedNet with both the Disruption Tolerant Networking DTN protocol and the Asynchronous Message Service AMS DTN originally developed by DARPA and is also on heterogeneous networks and provide a consistent interface to a variety of QoS criteria for messages The AMS developed by JPL but also submitted a CCSDS standard is designed to overlay 


along the way suggesting that such data should take redundant disconnected paths to its destination Therefore we propose that the activity and network simulation infrastructure be expanded upon to simulate proposed Constellation activities Note that the original model was developed with Constellation in mind This framework would be used to evaluate complex Constellation communications scenarios and develop further required extensions to core information models Ideally the framework would be adapted to utilize space based messaging technologies such as the Delay Tolerant Network DTN With greater numbers of robots producing science and engineering data the problem of managing distribution of data becomes increasingly need-driven of ensuring that the right information gets to the right destination based upon the relative priority of such data Based upon our communications study to date we feel confidant that the proposed architecture of object-based communications built on shared models of information content and relationship is capable of providing systemwide information coherency in the complex space network environment ACKNOWLEDGEMENT The work described in this paper was conducted at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration The authors wish to further acknowledge other individuals who made key contributions to research and development including Marti DeMore Lloyd DeForrest Michael Pajevski and Steven Scandore REFERENCES 1 Akyildiz Ian F et al State of the Art in Interplanetary Internet IEEE Communications Magazine July 2004 2 Matijevic J et al Mars Sample Return Spacecraft Systems Architecture IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings March 2000 3 A.-M Harri et al Network Science Landers For Mars Adv Space Res Vol 23/11 1999 4 Bradley J Clement Steven R Schaffer Distributed Network Scheduling Proceedings of the 4th International NASA Workshop on Planning and Scheduling for Space 2004 5 Gao Jay L Leang Dee A Demand Access Protocol for Space Applications IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007 BIOGRAPHY Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 16 years He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a messagebased ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontology-based distributed communications Joseph Hutcherson is a senior engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory He has been a key figure in the development of the SharedNet since its inception He has also worked on a Java-based adaptation of the Mission Data System control system supported the development and testing of a multi-channel communication system using Iridium satellite phones and most recently developing flight software for a re-usable software and hardware architectural platform 11 


Implant Application 1 Low level analog signal Stimulation Sensor interface Signal digitized and formatted Transmitter Application  receiver controller with MAC RF encoded packets of data Data packets organised into function Change response or cause direct stimulation 


Product Design and Manufacture 225 Work with end product manufacturer Each design is unique 225 No off the peg solution 225 Thorough testing during product development 225 Work with component suppliers 225 World class manufacturing capability 225 Post manufacture test and burn in 225 Reliable parts shipped on time NO SURPRISES NO CHANGES NOTHING EXCITINGI 


Module Encapsulated ZL70101 Crystal Matching network Antenna connection 


References 225 Krauss J D Antennas 2 nd Edition McGraw-Hili 1988 225 Yang G-Z Body Sensor Networks Springer 2005 225 Higgins H Implant Communication Made Real Body Sensor Networks Conference 2007 225 Sivard A et al Challenge of Designing In-body Communications Embedded System News 2004 225 Higgins H Human Body Implant Communication Making it Possible European Conference on Antennas and Propagation 2007 225 Hodgins D et al Healthy Aims Developing New Medical Implants and Diagnostic Equipment IEEE C5 Pervasive Computing January March 2008 225 Higgins H Implant Communications Out of the Lab and Into Patients lET Body-Centric Communication Conference London April 20 2009 225 Higgins H Body implant Communications Is It a Reality Antennas and Propagation for Body\255 Centric Wireless Communications lET/loP London April 24 2007 225 Higgins H Radio Frequency Technology and In-Body Communication Systems Implantable and Body Centric Conference Imperial College London 2005 225 Higgins H In-body Communications the Challenges and The Opportunities COST 2005 225 Rahmat-Samii Y and Kim J Implanted Antennas in Medical Wireless Communications Morgan  Claypool 2006 225 The Antenna Book 20th Edition American Radio Relay League ARRL 255 Main Street Newington CT,USA 225 Fujimoto K et al Small Antennas Research Studies Press 1967 225 Bancroft R Microstrip and Printed Antenna Design Noble Publishing 225 http://www.zarlink.com/zarlink/hs/82_ZL70101.htm 


Conclusions 225 Communication with very small implants is possible 225 The human body can both help and hinder communication 225 Power consumption is an issue for long term implants 225 The communication system antenna and implant should be designed together 225 There is no one size fits all solution 225 Transmission of data to and from an implant is practical and is being done and is making a difference to the lives of real patients 


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


