DEFECT ASSOCIATION AND COMPLEXITY PREDICTION BY MINING ASSOCIATION AND CLUSTERING RULES   Abstract Number of defects remaining in a system provides an insight into the quality of the system. Software defect prediction focuses on classifying the modules of a system into fault prone and non-fault prone modules. This paper focuses on predicting the fault prone modules as well as identifying the types of defects that occur in the fault prone modules. Software defect prediction is combined with association rule mining to determine the associations that occur among the detected defects and the effort required for isolating and correcting these defects. Clustering rules are used to classify the defects into groups indicating their complexity: SIMPLE, MODERATE and COMPLEX Moreover the defects are used to predict the effect on the project schedules and the nature of risk concerning the completion of such projects  Keywords-Defect Associations, Clustering, Defect Correction Effort  Defect Classification I INTRODUCTION Software defect prediction classifies system modules into fault prone and non-fault prone thereby enabling the users to identify the modules which are infected with defects. This project work deals with the process of identifying the fault prone modules, detecting the defects identifying the associations among them, predicting the effort required for correcting these defects, grouping the defects into clusters and classifying projects based on the defects. This helps the user to determine the defects remaining in a system, the association among them and the effort required for correcting these defects. The defect association helps in identifying maximum number of defects occurring with a given defect and helps testers to perform specific testing by enabling them to search for specific defects based on the association rules. Defect associations help developers to analyze the reason why certain defects occur in association with each other and defect correction effort predic tion provides an estimate of the probable amount of time taken for correcting the defects The process of grouping a set of objects into classes of similar objects is called clustering. By clustering one can identify dense and sparse regions and overall distribution patterns. Clustering technique categorizes the defects into groups based on their complexity. The defect correction effort is used as the criterion for classifying the defects thereby providing the project managers with a general idea about the nature of complexity of defects. Three general categories are defined for grouping defects SIMPLE, MODERATE and COMPLEX. This clustering technique helps the project managers to understand about the nature of defects and allocate resources accordingly Moreover the occurrence of defects in a project is used to determine the risk of the project overshooting its schedule by using a weighted analysis method II MINING METHODS A Association Classifying the modules as fault prone and non-fault prone is a renowned software prediction method. This method of classification is based on a classification model derived from previous development methods T h e accuracy of these classifiers is based on four possible results: If a module is fp and classified accordingly, then it is True Positive \(TP\; if it is wrongly classified as nfp then it is False Negative \(FN Similarly if a module is nfp and classified accordingly, then it is True Negative \(TN if it is wrongly classified as fp, then it is False Positive FP\. The defect prediction accuracy can be determined from these four figures Def ect prediction  m e t h od should determine maximum number of defect modules without raising false alarms True Positive Rate and False Positive Rate are used to evaluate defect prediction classifiers.   Fig. 1 describes the overall architecture diagram of the system 1 LARGE ITEMSET GENERATION The defects are divided into their various constituent types h e ef f o rt requ i r ed f o r i s ol at i n g a n d correct i n g  these defects is calculated in hours  R.KARTHIK School of Information Technology Engineering VIT University Vellore-632014 India karthik_jkr@yahoo.com N.MANIKANDAN School of Information Technology Engineering VIT University Vellore-632014 India manikandan.n@vit.ac.in V7-569 978-1-4244-6349-7/10/$26.00 c  2010 IEEE 


        Figure1. Architecture  Defect Prediction System Obtain defect data set Obtain defect isolation and correction effort data set Obtain transactions from data set Obtain training and defect data set Mine association rules to determine defect associations Mine association rules with effort as consequent Generate strong association rules with support and confidence greater than minimum Obtain training and defect data set Rule Ranking Defect association prediction Defect isolation and defect correction effort prediction Clustering the defects into groups based on their correction effort Weighted analysis Determining the risk associated with the project V7-570 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology Volume 7 


For the purpose of defect correction effort prediction the following attributes are taken into consideration Defect type, Effort, Typological error, Bad code and Omission error The defects are grouped into transactions based on the following approach: All defects whose change date falls within a particular time period are considered to be part of the same transaction The large defect data sets are obtained from the transactions based on the minimum support. Support of an itemset is defined as the number of transactions containing the itemset. The minimum support is fixed by the user and the large defect sets are obtaine  2 ASSOCIATION RULE MINING For a given transaction databa se T, an association rule is an expression of the form X=>Y, where X and Y are subsets of A and X=>Y holds with confidence c, if c% of transactions in D that support X also support Y. In this method association rules are mined from the large defect sets in order to identify associations among the defects The minimum confidence is fixed by the user. The defect association rules are generated based on previously known meth F o r def ect i s ol at i o n eff o rt predi c t i o n  and defect correction effort prediction, a special type of association rule mining is used such that the consequent of the association rule contains only the effort for correcting the defects. This method called Mining Association Rules with item constraints helps us to mine association rules with effort as consequent The rules are ranked based on their length. The rules with maximum length are given highest priority. For rules of equal length, the confidence, support and alphabetical order of defects are considered for assigning priority 3 DEFECT ASSOCIATIONS The defects that occur together with the given defect are identified using the defect association prediction method. The association rules are mined from the large defect sets and they are pruned based on the user specified minimum confidence and the rules are ranked The given k-defect is taken and the rules are searched one by one to determine the rule which contains the given defect. If all the pre-associations are contained within the antecedent of the rule, then the consequent is combined with the k-defect to generate a k+1 defect and the defect associations are displaye  4 DEFECT ISOLATION AND CORRECTION EFFORT For defect isolation and correction effort prediction special kinds of association rules are mined in which effort occurs as the consequent. Once the rules are obtained and ranked, the rules are searched one by one to identify the rule whose antecedent contains the defect The defect is merged with the antecedent to generate the defect element set and the most probable effort for the defect element set is determined [6   B Clustering Clustering is a data mining technique used to place data elements into related groups without advance knowledge of the group definitions. Clustering is a useful technique for separating data into groups whose members belong together. Each object is assigned to the group it is most similar to In this paper, clustering is applied to the identified defects along with their effort in order to group the defects into three categories based on their isolation and correction effort. The three categories are 1 COMPLEX: Defects that require a large amount of isolation and correction time 2 MODERATE: Defects that require a considerable amount of time for isolation and correction, but not large enough to be complex 3 SIMPLE: Defects that are easy to isolate and correct and which require a very small amount of time for isolation and correction This categorization is not based on any fixed boundaries. The boundaries are dynamic and are formed based on the data present in that particular system. Hence the clustering is specific to the system or database to which it is applied and it changes from system to system In this project, clustering is performed based on the following attributes  Defect Isolation Effort, Defect Correction Effort Typological Error, Bad Code and Omission Error Typological error, bad code and omission error are attributes whose presence or absence influences the time taken for correcting and isolating defects Hence each of these attributes is given a value 10 if they are present and are given a value 0 if they are absent. For defects whose isolation and correction effort is independent of these attributes, each of these is given a value of 10 DEFECT CLUSTER ALGORITHM Volume 7 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology V7-571 


1 The number of clusters is fixed as 3\(SIMPLE MODERATE and COMPLEX 2 3 initial clusters are formed by choosing one defect set for each cluster from the database 3 The defect set with the lowest isolation and correction effort forms the first defect set in the SIMPLE cluster while the defect set with the maximum isolation and correction effort forms the first defect set in the COMPLEX cluster 4 The average of the isolation effort and correction effort of the defects in the SIMPLE and COMPLEX cluster is computed and the defect set with effort nearest to the average forms the first defect set in the MODERATE cluster. Now each cluster consists of one defect set 5 Next each defect set is assigned to only one of the clusters. Each defect set is assigned to the nearest cluster by computing its distance using the Euclidean Distance Method 6 Each defect set is assigned to the most similar cluster based on the distance method and the arithmetic mean is calculated for all the defect sets in a cluster. For example, if the SIMPLE cluster consists of two defect sets Logic={1,3,10,0,0} and Interface={2,1,10,10,0},then SIMPLE MEAN 2+1/2,3+1/2,10+10/2,0+10/2,0 0/2} where each defect set is of the format Defect={Isolation Effort, Correction Effort Typological, Bad Code, Omission 7 The arithmetic mean forms the new centre for this cluster. Similarly centers are computed for each cluster 8 The defect sets are reassigned to the cluster based on their distance from the new centers 9 This process is repeated until stable clusters are formed FORMULA EUCLIDEAN DISTANCE\(X, Y\ \(|X 1 Y 1  2  X 2 Y 2  2 X N-1 Y N-1  2 X N Y N  2\1/2 1 This clustering method helps in identifying and categorizing the defects based on their complexity The project managers can allocate time and resources based on the nature of complexity of the defects. This helps the project managers to manage project schedules and ensure that the project isnêt delayed Fig 2 describes the clustering process  Figure 2. Clustering Module III CLASSIFICATION Based on weighted analysis method, it is determined whether the presence of a particular defect might affect the project schedule significantly This helps to determine whether a project is risk prone due to the presence of a defect. The following inputs are required for this method: Defect Isolation  Defect correction effort obtained from database Three clusters are defined simple, moderate and com p lex One defect set is assigned to each cluster Compute Euclidean distance Assign each defect to the nearest cluster Compute arithmetic mean to determine new centers Reassign defects based on new centers V7-572 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology Volume 7 


Effort \(DIE\ect Correction Effort \(DCE\d Number of Associated Defects \(NAD From the defect associations, the number of defects \(NAD\at occur in association with the given defect can be obtained. More the number of defects that occur in association with a particular defect more is the amount of time required for correcting the defects increases. This affects the project schedule and makes the project risk prone. Thus the number of associated defects plays a major role in determining the project risk FORMULA WA = 0.5*NAD * \(0.2*DIE + 0.3 * DCE     2 Where WA Ö Weighted Analysis NAD Ö Number of Associated Defects DIE Ö Defect Isolation Effort DCE Ö Defect Correction Effort The threshold value of WA depends on the size and complexity of the project. Based on the project characteristics, an appropriate WA value is set. All projects with values below the threshold are classified as safe and all projects with values above the threshold are classified as risky IV RESULTS This project mines defect associations, groups defects into clusters and classifies the projects based on the defects found. The resulting data is used as the basis for determining the nature and complexity of defects and the risk associated with the project A possible extension of this project would be to include other data mining methods to classify defects. Future works can take into account attributes such as severity and cause of defects as the basis for classifying them V CONCLUSION In this paper, an innovative approach for identifying the associations among the defects in a system and predicting the effort for correcting these defects is described.   This new defect prediction method helps in identifying the maximum possible number of defects that occur in association with a given defect. By using this method, the accuracy of defect prediction is improved and moreover this method helps in producing a lower false negative rate in comparison with other prediction methods. Clustering technique is used to group the defects based on their complexity and the projects containing the defects are classified based on the risk associated with them REFERENCES 1 N F S c hne i d e w ind M e t ho do l o gy f o r V a l i dat i ng S o f t w a r e  Metrics,é IEEE Trans. Software Eng., vol. 18, no. 5, pp. 410422,May 1992 2 K  E l E m a m  S. B e n l a r b i N. G o e l  an d S N. Ra i  C om pa rin g  Case-Based Reasoning Classifiers for Predicting High-Risk Software Components,é J. Systems and Software, vol. 55, no. 3 pp. 301-320,2001 3 G  H e l l e r  J  V a let t  an d M  W i ld D a t a C o llec t i o n P r oc edu r e f o r  the Software Engineering Laboratory \(SEL\tabase,é Technical Report SEL-92-002, Software Eng. Laboratory, 1992 4 R  A g ra w a l T  I m i e li n s k i an d A  S w a m i  M in in g A s s o c i a t i o n Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases,é Proc. ACM SIGMOD Conf. Management of Data, May 1993 5 R  S r i k a n t  Q. Vu and  R  A g ra w a l M in in g A s s o c i at i on R u les  with Item Constraints,é Proc. Third Intêl Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD ê97\, pp. 67-73, Aug. 1997 6 S o f tw ar e D e f e ct A sso ciat io n M i ni ng  an d D e f e ct Co r r e ctio n Ef f o r t  Prediction Qinbao Song, Martin Shepperd, Michelle Cartwright and Carolyn Mair Volume 7 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology V7-573 


6  C Benner and B Russell  Automated f ault analysis using an intelligent monitoring system in Protective Relay Engineers 2009 62nd Annual Conference for  Mar.-Apr 2009 pp 224 235  J Bo wers A Sundaram C Benner  and B Russell Outage a v oidance through intelligent detection of incipient equipment failures on distribution feeders in Power and Energy Society General Meeting Conversion and Delivery of Electrical Energy in the 21st Century 2008 IEEE  Jul 20-24 2008 pp 1 7  H Mannila H T oito v en and A I V erkamo Disco v ery of frequent episodes in event sequences Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 1 no 3 pp 259Ö289 Sep 1997  S Laxman P  Sastry  and K Unnikrishnan Disco v ering frequent gener alized episodes when events persist for different durations Knowledge and Data Engineering IEEE Transactions on  vol 19 no 9 pp 1188 1201 Sept 2007  O A Quiroga J Mel  endez S Herraiz and J S  anchez Sequence pattern discovery of events caused by ground fault trips in power distribution systems in 18th Mediterranean Conference on Control and Automation  Jun 23-25 2010  Y  Y uan Z Xuemeng X Y onghai L Y an and W  Dan yue  Analysis and calculation on indices of voltage sag in Power and Energy Engineering Conference 2009 APPEEC 2009 Asia-Paciìc  Mar 2731 2009 pp 1Ö5 12 IEC 61000-2-8 Voltage dips and short interruptions on public electric power supply systems with statistical measurement results  International Electrotechnical Commission Std Nov 2002  K.-Y  Huang and C.-H Chang Ef cient mining of frequent episodes from complex sequences Information Systems  vol 33 pp 96Ö114 2008 Oscar A Quiroga was born in Bol  var Santander Colombia in 1980 He received his BS degree in Electrical Engineering from the Industrial University of Santander Colombia in 2004 and his MS degree in Automatic Control and Computer Engineering from the Universitat de Girona Catalonia in 2010 Currently he is a PhD student at University of Girona His main elds of interest are fault diagnosis in power distribution networks and power quality Joaquim Mel  endez received the B.S degree in Telecom Engineering from the Universitat Polit  ecnica de Catalunya in 1991 and his PhD from the Universitat de Girona in 1998 Lecturer at the Department of Electrical Electronic and Automation Engineering of the Universitat de Girona Spain since 1999 and Director of the Phd Program in Technology at the same university His research interests are in the eld of Data Mining methods artiìcial intelligence and statistical based approaches for process monitoring and supervision and in particular in the development of such methods for fault diagnosis of power systems and power quality monitoring He is author of more than 100 papers in conferences and journals and he has leaded and participated in several research projects and contracts with industries for developing intelligent monitoring strategies Sergio Herraiz was born in Barcelona Spain in 1972 He received the BS degree in Industrial Engineering and PhD degree in Engineering from the Universitat Polit  ecnica de Catalunya in 1997 and 2002 respectively Currently he is a lecturer in the Department of Electrical Electronic and Control Engineering at University of Girona His research interests are in the areas of power quality and fault location and diagnosis   


p 298-303, 2009, Proceedings of the 2009 4th International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services, ICIW 2009   Liu, Miao \(School of Information and Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou 510006, China\; Guo He-Qing; Su, Jin-Dian 002»\001\000 Semantic matching of ontology instances 001\001  Source: Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, ICMLC 2007, v 5, p 2959-2963, 2007  
589 


        


9 Appendix Fig 6: Forest Cover Types of the U.S. \(Source. USGS National Atlas of US Summary of Forest Cover Type Data Type Multivariate Abstract The forest cover type for 30 x 30 meter cells obtai ned from US Forest Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS\ data Data Characteristics The actual forest cover type for a given observatio n \(30 x 30 meter cell\ was determined from US Fores t Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS data Independe nt variables were derived from data originally obta ined from US Geological Survey \(USGS\ and USFS data. Data is in raw form \(not scaled\ and contains binary \(0 or 1 columns of data for qualitative independent variables \(wilderness areas and soil types Summary Statistics Number of instances observations 581012 Number of Attributes 54 Attribute breakdown 12 measures, but 54 columns of data \(10 quantitativ e variables, 4 binary wilderness areas and 40 binary soil type variables Missing Attribute Values None 43 


   C4.2 Open GL has excellent documentation that could help the developer learn the platform with ease C4.3 Developer has very little ex perience in working with Open GL platform  For our case study, alternative B i.e. Adobe Director was the most favorable alternative amongst all the three. It catered to the reusability criteria quite well and aimed at meeting most of the desired operational requirements for the system   6. CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK  The main contribution of this paper is to develop an approach for evaluating performance scores in MultiCriteria decision making using an intelligent computational argumentation network. The evaluation process requires us to identify performance scores in multi criteria decision making which are not obtained objectively and quantify the same by providing a strong rationale. In this way, deeper analysis can be achieved in reducing the uncertainty problem involved in Multi Criteria decision paradigm. As a part of our future work we plan on conducting a large scale empirical analysis of the argumentation system to validate its effectiveness   REFERENCES  1  L  P Am g o u d  U sin g  A r g u men ts f o r mak i n g an d  ex p lain in g  decisions Artificial Intelligence 173 413-436, \(2009 2 A  Boch m a n   C ollectiv e A r g u men tatio n    Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning 2002 3 G  R Bu y u k o zk an  Ev alu a tio n o f sof tware d e v e lo p m en t  projects using a fuzzy multi-criteria decision approach Mathematics and Computers in Simualtion 77 464-475, \(2008 4 M T  Chen   F u zzy MCD M A p p r o ach t o Selec t Serv ice  Provider The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy 2003 5 J. Con k li n  an d  M. Beg e m a n   gIBIS: A Hypertext Tool for Exploratory Policy Discussion Transactions on Office Information Systems 6\(4\: 303  331, \(1988 6 B P  Duarte D e v elo p in g a p r o jec ts ev alu a tio n sy ste m based on multiple attribute value theroy Computer Operations Research 33 1488-1504, \(2006 7 E G  Fo rm an  T h e  A n a l y t ic Hier a rch y P r o cess A n  Exposition OR CHRONICLE 1999 8 M. L ease  an d J L  L i v e l y  Using an Issue Based Hypertext System to Capture Software LifeCycle Process Hypermedia  2\(1\, pp. 34  45, \(1990 9  P e id e L i u   E valu a tio n Mo d e l o f Custo m e r Satis f a c tio n o f  B2CE Commerce Based on Combin ation of Linguistic Variables and Fuzzy Triangular Numbers Eight ACIS International Conference on Software Engin eering, Artificial Intelligence Networking and Parallel Distributed Computing, \(pp 450-454 2007  10  X  F L i u   M an ag e m en t o f an In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  Network for a Web-Based Collaborative Engineering Design Environment Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems,\(CTS 2007\, Orlando, Florida May 21-25, 2007 11 X. F L i u   A n In ternet Ba se d In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  System for Collaborative Engineering Design Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems pp. 318-325\. Las Vegas, Nevada 2006 12 T  M A sub jec tiv e assess m e n t o f altern ativ e m ission  architectures for the human exploration of Mars at NASA using multicriteria decision making Computer and Operations Research 1147-1164, \(June 2004 13 A  N Mo n ireh  F u zzy De cisio n Ma k i n g b a se d o n  Relationship Analysis between Criteria Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society 2005 14 N  P a p a d ias HERMES Su p p o rti n g A r g u m e n tative  Discourse in Multi Agent Decision Making Proceedings of the 15th National Conference on Artifical Intelligence \(AAAI-98  pp. 827-832\dison, WI: AAAI/MIT Press,  \(1998a 15  E. B T riantaph y llo u   T h e Im p act o f  Ag g r e g atin g Ben e f i t  and Cost Criteria in Four MCDA Methods IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol 52, No 2 May 2005 16 S  H T s a u r T h e Ev alu a tio n o f airlin e se rv ice q u a lity b y  fuzzy MCDM Tourism Management 107-115, \(2002 1 T  D W a n g  Develo p in g a f u zz y  T O P S IS app r o ach  b a sed  on subjective weights and objective weights Expert Systems with Applications 8980-8985, \(2009 18 L  A  Zadeh  F u z z y Sets   Information and Control 8  338-353, \(1965  152 


                        





