  Abstract  Radio frequency and mixed signal semiconductor technologies h ave been improving and play a big role in the rapidly growing market of wireless communication. Higher integration of CMOS technologies due to More Moores Law is helping this success. In parallel, some of the RF micro device technologies have been very popular, especially for frequency selection such as piezoelectric material devices by using MEMS technology. On the other hand, there are many wireless services already in existence su ch as various kind of cellular standards, many private systems representing IEEE 802.11/15 WLAN, Bluetooth, and public mobile services and also there are coming up ne w systems such as Ultra Wide Band, and Wireless Sensor Network. Since all these services have different carrier frequencies, channel bandwidth, and various kinds of modulation systems a single solution is not tenable. This led the industry toward the concept of the Software Defined Radio. This has been discussed for many years, leading to a vision of a Cognitive Radio Expectation of a Cognitive Radio is that it can change its radio functions by swa pping software instead of replacing hardware. It is cl ear that conventional A/D converters with high data ra tes and large dynamic range will not suffice. Thus, it has been said that RF MEMS is a strong contender as a complimentary technology, allowing More Than Moore to enable the ubiquitous connectivity Paper discussed current status of the RF MEMS technology briefly including sw itches, LC, oscillators/filters using Piezoelectric materials, Silicon, and Metal, besides focusing on the next step of RF MEMS with the keyword of Tunable, Selectable and Combination. The focus for RF MEMS for the next step demonstrated, Matching modules, Front Ends, Filter Banks, Improving the resonator performances for th e wireless application and Creating new functions for RF MEMS. The next step for RF MEMS is not only technology discussions, but also the international standardizatio n for the RF MEMS industry and wireless communication products  Index Terms Software Defined Radio, Cognitive Radio, RF MEMS, Piezoelectric resonator, WLAN, Bluetooth, Digital Radio Processing, reconfigurable, Filter, Oscillator, Quartz, AlN FBAR    I  I NTRODUCTION  OFTWARE Defined Radio is a concept to realize the multimode wireless radio system which can exchange radio and protocol specifications to the various kind of radios by software using a digitalized system and one hardware Joseph Mitola III said in his paper in 1999, that representing architectures of the software radio technologies are RF Circuit Wideband AD/DA conversion, Real time software, and narrowband AD/DA conversion for the user interface. This concepts has been expanding its availability to inference the user needs\(cognition\ch relates to the radio specification of the frequency, protocols, ha rdware, software, condition of the radio propagation, networks users application tastes, and now Cognitive Radio There are two approaches for the cognitive radio, one is the heterogeneous network which is to keep the seamless hand over between each networks depende d upon service conditions and QoS demand for the users, and the other is the dynamic spectrum access which is opportuni stic and dynamic utilization of the white space of the freque ncy spectrum. Recently it has been under consideration these two approaches would be better to grow into one. Though in any case, the back ground of these growing technologies is caused by the lack of frequency spectrum by the growing market of the broadband wireless communication On the other hand, we should know whether the frequency spectrum has been used effectively or not. Fig.1 which is referred from shows the general nature of the spectrum occupancy in approximately 700MHz block of spectrum below 1GHz in Atlanta, New Orleans, and San Diego   Fig. 1. Occupancy of approximate ly 700MHz of spectrum below 1GHz RF MEMS:Focusing on the Next Step Takeo Oita Member, IEEE Nihon Dempa Kogyo Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan oita@ndk.com S 1173 978-1-4244-4390-1/09/$25.00 2009 IEEE 2009 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium Proceedings 10.1109/ULTSYM.2009.0283 
 


 This report tells us the solution is not only the lack of frequency band spectrum, but also no usage for the long time period in the air. In other frequency band spectrum upper 1GHz is similar conditions, although there are many various kind of cellular standards, many priv ate systems representing IEEE 802.11/15 WLAN, Bluetooth, and public mobile services, and additionally there are coming up new radio systems such as Ultra Wide Band, and Wireless Sensor Network expecting new frequency spectrum allocations. So it can be said that 4G system wouldnt come in a single network, but would be carried out by the unification of different networks to enable the ubiquitous connectivity Table 1 The Need for Spectru m of the Cellular Standards  Courtesy by Art Moris wiSpry But there are many assignments to realize the cognitive radio including spectrum sensing technology. The Digital Radio Processing \(DRP\echnology has been discussing, and many researchers have been turn ing their efforts to waveform creation, analog/digital signal processing, data conversion phased-locked loops, and etc..  These are come from concepts and algorithms of Software Defined Radio \(SDR\ginally SDR has been aiming to change the radio function by swapping software instead of replacing hardware in the manner of More Moore which has been approaching to the limitation of the fine line photolithographic pro cess with power and thermal management difficulties Thus RF MEMS is a strong contender as a complimentary technology allowing More than Moore where we can find out the expectation in Fi as bel o w  Fig. 2. Moore's Law and More  II  C URRENT RF  MEMS Although most of all RF MEMS have been aiming to realize the next generation wireless radio technologies followings are the basic status of various kind of RF MEMS devices A  RF MEMS Switch RF MEMS Switch is one of the key player in the application of the Multiband/Multichannel transceiver for reconfigurable integrated circuits Fig. 3 shows the SEM micrograph of an electro statically actuated broadband ohmic microswitc    Fig.3 SEM micrograph of the electro statically actuated microswitch  This is a three terminal device based on a cantilever beam and is fabricated using an all-metal surface micromachining process DC on-resistance, lifetime, and current handling are sufficient for the radio module, with a note of actuation voltage of 80V and the die is encapsulated in a hermetic package as shown in Fig. 4  Fig. 4 A capped die containing a microswitch obtained a wafer-bonding process  Sufficient RF characteristics are insertion loss of 0.32dB and isolation of 33dB at 2GHz as shown in Fig. 5   Fig. 5 Capped switch insertion loss and isolation vs. frequency for a 4-contact microswitch  Since the actuation voltage as low as ~1.5V has been reported   by Int e l  t h ere woul d be not so bi g probl em t o appl y for t h e portable equipment application 1174 2009 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium Proceedings 
 


B  RF MEMS Capacitor/Inductor Fig. 5 shows the illustration of the micro-machined parallel plate variable capacitor which is applicable to produce in standard CMOS process  Fig. 5 Micro-machined                         Fig.6 Raised Inductor Parallel plate variable capacitor  Fg. 6 shows the illustration of the raised inductor which has been expected higher Q value around 30 to 70 compared with the planar spiral inductor on a substrate directly of its Q less than 10 These micro-fabricated LC resonance circuits on the silicon wafer would be applicable for RF top filter directly connected to the antenna, duplexers or RF switches, and tunable off-chip LC tank of the VCO of the 1st local oscillator. Advantages of these structures are high Q for image signal suppression, and lower phase noise of local oscillator, but cares for the reliability by mechanical shock and vibration should be taken compared with the conventional devices such as ceramic filters  C  Vibrating Micromechanical Resonator Many researches had been taken on the VHF range resonator to apply the reference oscillator of the cellular radio terminal. An on-chip vibrating clamped-clamped beam CC-Beam\icromechanical re sonator at 10MHz based on MEMS technology with a Q of 40,000 and frequency stability of 34ppm over 0-70deg.C temperature range was reporte  After this report, the phase noise performance had been improved and reached only -120dB c/Hz at floor level caused by the insufficient power handling ability A 60MHz wine-glass microm echanical-disk reference oscillator was reported [6 is typ e o f  reso n ato r o s cillato r would be a strong candidate as a reference oscillator of its high Q value.  Fig.7 shows the SEM image of a fabricated wine glass disk resonator in the report   Fig.7 SEM image of the wine glass disk resonator Fig.8 shows the phase noise plot of the wine glass disk resonator oscillator with showing the oscillating parameters in the box. Dividing by 4 of the oscillating frequency will make the phase noise to another 20l og4 phase noise improvement at 13MHz which is the standard GSM reference frequency Recently, since the Geo-loca tion application of the smart-phone has been very popular, this performance would be better to improve to -135dBc/Hz@1kHz offset frequency with higher stable frequency temper ature performance. Narrower gap between in/out electrodes and resonator disk, lower motional impedance of the resonator, that  would be able to improve the phase noise performance with the wider choice from the various kind of oscillator sustaining circuit of the quarts crystal   Fig. 8  Phase noise plot of the wine glass resonator oscillator  A higher frequency of 1 51GHz nanocrystalline diamond micromechanical disk resonator has been reporte from UC  Berkeley. The CVD process has been used to fabricate the diamond disk. The Q of 11,555 is quite impressive, compared with the polysilicon disk resonator [8  8 sh o w s th e SEM image of the CVD nanocrystalline diamond micromechanical disk resonator with material-mismatched self-aligned stem which is the scheme of this high-Q resonator   Fig. 8  SEM image of Diamond Disk Resonator  Since the frequency temperatur e coefficient of this resonator is -12ppm/deg.C, a further research has been expecting with achieving the sophisticated sustai ning oscillating circuit for the parameter of 100kohms motional impedance, and the frequency temperature compensation circuit. If the oscillation start-up time would be extremely quick, switching the DC bias voltage\(V p of the  polysilicon ground plane would be make a suggestive idea of  the Adaptive\(Switchable\esonator Anchor Support Beams R = 32 um Input Output Wine Glass Disk Resonator 1175 2009 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium Proceedings 
 


D  Piezo MEMS Oscillator/Filter FBAR\(Film Bulk Acoustic Resonator\representing the Piezo MEMS resonator. At present, FBAR filters and duplexers are the most successful business model of the MEMS resonator fields as we know Native FBAR oscillators have been reporte 10 and t h ei r t e m p erat ure dependency  have about -30ppm/deg.C with mechanically frequency temperature compensation. These are the altern atives for use only as a clock in electronic systems with relaxe d specifications, not in use for the wireless application. Recently, there is a challenge to achieve temperature stable FBAR oscillator to bring out its high-Q performance, and its convenient mechanical coupling factor can admit to use an electronic frequency temperature compensation method A temperature compensated 1.5GHz FBAR-based frequency reference has been reporte Fi g. 9 shows t h e micrograph of this oscillator which CMOS circuit is including an 1.5GHz sustaining oscillator circuit with two 8bit capacitor banks as to be used frequency pulling for the temperature compensation, the temperatur e sensor with a 7bit A/D converter, and 1024bit look up memory table   Fig. 9 Two Chips combination of FBAR/CMOS frequency reference  Fig. 10 shows the successful results of the temperature compensation as the frequency stability 20ppm over 100deg.C temperature range compared with non compensation stability 100ppm. It has been expecting as a real alternative reference oscillator with good frequency ag ing performance which would be capable by the high reliable hermetic package   Fig.10 Frequency drift over temperat ure with compensation OFF, and ON   A band width control in acoustically coupled ALN contour mode MEMS filter has been reported [12 Th is is v ery suggestive research to achieve a reconfigurable several hundreds MHz IF filter module. To control the exciting number of the particular electrodes and si de of the substrate, will enable to excite the higher order resonance which makes the filter bandwidth wider. Fig. 11 shows the behavior of the two modes  Fig. 11 Switching bandwidth beha vior of the two modes  Quartz is the most popular materials for the frequency control and selection, and a MEMS based quartz resonator technology has been reporte The wafer fabri cat i on technique for the etching process has been used as shown in Fig.12   Fig.12 Wafer fabrication of Quartz resonator  590MHz fundamental mode of the thickness shear mode quartz resonator is fabricated shown in Fig.13. Since the etching speed of the quarts is not so fast, this technique will be applied for UHF frequency range which is very thin Quarts substrate   Fig. 13 SEM photograph of a completed Quartz resonator  1176 2009 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium Proceedings 
 


For the higher Q by using the MEMS technology has been reporte Fol l o wi ng t o t h e t h eory of t h e energy  t rappi ng effect of the quarts resonator Gaussian structures has been achieved by the MEMS process as shown in Fig.14   Fig.14 Process flow for the Gaussian shaped AT-Cut quartz crystal resonators III  F OCUSING ON THE NEXT STEP RF  MEMS Since we have discussed current RF MEMS in the previous paragraph, there are wide variety of technologies and have been researching to bring out with each materials performance, by using theoretical modeling method, and process development To avoid blowing off the discussion for the next step RF MEMS, wed like to focus our discussion about the tunable Front-Ends for mobile and cognitive radios A  Challenge for the Programmable RF For the effective use of the frequency spectrum, a programmable RF Front-Ends with RF MEMS devices is the key solution Fig 15 shows the programmable front-end proposed by wiSpry, including Tunable PA/Filter, Tunable Switch and Multiplexer, and Tunable Impedance Matching Network    Fig.15 Programmable Front-End proposed by wiSpry   Embedded passives are one of the suggestive ideas for the first step. Current RF components are relatively high, but the packaging technique is mature and cost effective as a chip scale module package with integrated passive devices shown its image in Fig.16   Fig. 16 Image of the embedded passive package Courtesy by Greg Heinzinger, Qualcomm  Tunable digital capacitors would be the initial needs for the function of single or multiple cap acitor array, open loop/serial port control, serial and/or shunt devices. Fig. 17 is the block diagram of the digitally programmable RF shunt capacitor TDC\age of TDC structure   Fig. 17  TDC Block Diagram,  Courtesy by Art Moris wiSpry    Fig. 18 Image of TDC structure, Courtesy by Art Moris, wiSpry  B  Switchable Filter array A filter bank module is also another important technology for the multiband receiver. A micromechanical disk resonator has its own benefit of On-Off function by switching DC bias voltage\(Vp\entioned in the previous paragraph. A channelizing RF front-end with three implementations has been reporte   These options are as follows a single tunable channel-selecting filter a large bank of non-tunable, but on-off switchable, filters a smaller bank of tunable and on-off switchable filters as shown in Fig.19  1177 2009 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium Proceedings 
 


 Fig.19 Schematic of a ch annelizing RF front-end   Fig. 20 shows the SEM photo of a 163MHz differential disk-array composite micromechanical filter   Fig. 20  SEM photo of a 163MHz disk array filter  The micromachined bias-TEE array should be achieved to separate RF signals and DC bias voltage of each address lines  Since there are some of devices which should be encapsulated in a vacuum cavity, a high reliable and cost effective wafer level packaging technology is highly required The SIP should be taken for the first step to keep the high quality and high reliable RF-M odule. The SOC would come after SIP with 3D structure technology which including different materials wafer bonding technology with TSV, and TxV IV  I NTERNATIONAL S TANDARDIZATION  There are three international standardization groups relating with cognitive radio, as follows ITU-R IEEE SCC\(Standards Coordinating Committee 41 IEEE 802  Two projects or industrial groups relating with Cognitive Radio are as follows E3\(Europe SDR Forum  The activity of RF MEMS international standardization is in IEC TC49 WG12  V  C ONCLUSION  The evolution of RF MEMS is needed for the expanding broadband wireless radio communications. It should be progressed in parallel with the miniaturization of the CMOS following More Moore, comb ined together with the diversification technologies of More than Moore. Although there are many various kinds of technologies, modeling theories, processes, and simulation techniques on the RF-MEMS, there would be no anxiety for the future, that many researchers, groups, they have extremely high motivation for the RF MEMS  R EFERENCES    Federal Communications Commission Spectrum Policy Task Force Report of the Spectrum Efficien cy Working Group, November 15, 2002    INTERNATIONAL TECHNOLOGY ROADMAP FOR SEMICONDUCTORS 2007 EDITION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY, page 20, Figure 4, Moores Law and More   S. Majumder, et al, A Packaged, High-Lifetime Ohmic MEMS RF Switch Proc. IEEE MTT-S IMS, 2003    
Tsung-Kuan A. Chou, et al BILLION-CYCLE ULV ELECTROSTATIC RF MEMS SWITCH Solid-State Sensors Actuators, and Microsystems Workshop, 2006    W.-T. Hsu, J. R. Clark, and C. T C. Nguyen, A Sub-Micron Capacitive Gap Process for Multiple-Metal-Electrode Lateral Micromechanical Resonators Technical Digest, MEMS01, 2001 pp. 349-352   Y.-W. Lin, S. Lee, S.-S. Li, Y. Xie, Z. Ren, and C. T.-C. Nguyen 60-MHz wine glass micromechanical disk reference oscillator Digest of Technical Papers, 2004 IEEE Inte rnational Solid-State Circuits Conference, 2004 pp322-323   J. Wang, J. E. Butler, T. Feygelson, and C. T.-C. Nguyen, 1.51-GHz polydiamond micromechanical disk resonator with Impedance-mismatched isolating support Proc., 17th Int. IEEE Micro Electro Mechanical Systems Conf., 2004 pp. 641-644   J. Wang, et al., Self-aligned 1 14-GHz vibrating radialmode Disk Resonators Transducers03 pp. 947-950   B. Otis and J. Rabaey, A 300_W 1.9GHz CMOS Oscillator Utilizing Micromachined Resonators Solid-State Circuits, IEEE Journal of vol 38, no. 7, pp. 12711274, 2003   S. Rai and B. Otis et al, A 600_W BAW-Tuned Quadrature VCO Using Source Degenerated Coupling Solid-State Circuits, IEEE Journal of  vol. 43, no. 1, pp. 300305, 2008   Shailesh Rai. et al., A 1.5GHz CMOS/FBAR Frequency Reference with 10ppm Temperature Stability proc. EFTF-IFCS 2009 pp385-387   Carlos R. Perez and Gianluca Piazza Bandwidth Control in Acoustically Coupled AlN Contour Mode MEMS Filters proc. EFTF-IFCS 2009  pp64-68   David T. Chang et al, A NEW MEMS-BASED QUARTZ RESONATOR TECHNOLOGY Solid-State Sensor, Actuator and Microsystems Workshop. 2004 pp41-44   T. Abe, H. Kish, DESIGN AND FABRICATION OF A GAUSSIAN-SHAPED AT-CUT QUARTZ CRYSTAL RESONATOR Proc, IEEE MEMS 2009 pp908-911   Yang Lin et al, Enhancement of Micromechanical Resonator Manufacturing Precision Via Mechanically-Coupled Arraying Proc.EFTF-IFCS, 2009 pp58-63 1178 2009 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium Proceedings 
 


meta-data management, process and data modelling, complex queries and reports   The Registry UDDI interface, where administrations publish their Web Services or find existing, available Web Services to use through their information systems, constructing truly interoperable, one-stop services The Tools layer comprises   The process modelling facilities, based on ADONIS modelling engine    The XML Management facilities, based on ALTOVA XML Authorwa    The custom-developed ontology management data entry and reporting tools that integrate all representations and models Finally, the Data Storage layer incorporates a database for all instances of eGovernment elements Service descriptions in Web Services Definition Language \(WSDL\, process models in BPMN and various XML schemas  Table 1. Elements of the Interoperability Registry in Greece Entity Population Public Administration Organizations 1,797 Services Definitions 1,009 IT Systems Definitions 76 Service Types 11 BPMN Models for Services 321 Web Services Definitions 35 Government Category List 166 service categories Documents Definitions 1,106 Document Field Definitions 1,434 XML Schemas for Documents 169 Core Components 36 Business Information Entities 109  4.1 Population of the Registry Initial Population of the Services Registry has been greatly assisted by the existence of data in electronic form, through the Greek Ministry of Interior and was achieved through the following automated and semiautomated activities, summarised in Table 1   Automated import of 1,797 public bodies including ministries, prefectures, districts municipalities and public sector organizations   Automated import of 1,009 governmental service definitions, with core metadata descriptions and frequency indications stemming out of 3,000,000 service requests by citizens and businesses during the last year   Analytical modelling of 321 governmental services in BPMN models \(including all i2010 services and the services amounting to 95% of the yearly service requests\For more than 100 governmental processes, transformational scenaria have been created, with standardized digitization steps \(creation of web services organizational and semantic interoperability guidilines   Analytical modelling of 1,106 documents, at field level, resulting in the identification of more than 1,000 different field types   Design of more than 200 Business Information Entities, Core Components and XML schemas for governmental documents, following the UN/CEFACT CCTS methodology. This process involved transformation and unification of data elements, so that unique definitions now exist in all XML documents for 109 reusable Business Information Entities e.g. person, address, organization, enterprise etc 4.2 Application Scenaria  A version of the proposed Interoperability Registry has been applied for the last two years within the Greek Public Administration.  Experience shows that this enhanced registry can serve a variety of usage scenaria, as depicted in Figure 3.  Being available through the governmental service gateway \(the Greek HERMES portal\e Greek Interoperability Registry can support the following needs   Service discovery, acting as a unified but federated global directory for all manual or electronic services at local, regional and national level   Service execution, by providing codelists for common values, to be dynamically bound with electronic forms during service provision   Service or data transformation, including complex services composition, through the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


provision of ready-made templates, standard definitions or guidelines   Service interoperability with registries deployed in other countries with a view to facilitating the panEuropean e-Government Services \(PEGS\ign and provision, through the registry s middleware infrastructure  5. Conclusions and Further Work The presented methodological framework focused on the key challenges of unified process and data management and transformation in eGovernment, for the provision of interoperable, one-stop shop services to citizens and businesses Utilizing practices and standardisation from the eBusiness domain, the presented approach is claiming novelty in conceptualization and overall coherence in the eGovernment domain, being one of the very first approaches internationally to bring the power of BPMN and UN/CEFACT CCTS structure into a reallife application Applied at large scales within the Greek eGovernment Interoperability Framework, the approach presents a sound collection of reusable principles and tools for other Governments and practitioners of the field, as following  Figure 3: Interoperability Registry applications in eGovernment     An overall approach compatible with national eGIFs, going beyond paper-based standardisation to live systems and service document Interoperability Registries   A concise methodology to tackle the problem of creating unified, structured XML schemas and coherent service descriptions for Governmental documents and services respectively   Standardised Core Components, reusable BIEs and XSD files, reusable Service definitions and patterns, freely available within the Greek Interoperability Registry   More than 10 adopted or developed standard codelists for the most common values appearing in public forms and documents   A set of prototype tools that can be adapted to other cases and Governments needs Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


Problems faced during implementation and application were not trivial and have to be to be taken in mind during relevant attempts by government officials and practitioners.  Tools development or integration is usually such an issue in relevant attempts, the present one not being excluded from this de-facto rule: significant effort has to be devoted to the development of the registry application that forms the central repository for governmental services and documents as no commercial, ready to apply tools are generally available.  Furthermore integration of enterprise modelling tools and XML authoring tools with the core registry should be performed with caution and supported by high-level technical support from the vendors.  On the metadata creation field, language issues are extremely important as all the relevant descriptions should be in local language for the government officials to understand, modify and approve\d at least in English \(for easiness of communication with other governments and practitioners\e of the best ways to tackle this requirement is the creation of a glossary early in the process.  Finally, adequate time and effort should be spent for communicating and working together with government officials at various levels since resolving organizational and legal issues is a strong precondition for the actual agreement on the schemas and for the final adoption of the registry Future steps of the team in the direction of the presented approach and also within the adoption phase of the Greek eGIF, are the following   Tackling of the legal issues for the formal adoption of the new electronic documents in everyday practice, since most of the governmental services are ruled by specific laws and decrees a case which is common in many European countries.  Towards this goal, the legal elements ontology \(already defined in the Interoperability Registry  has to be fully populated with all the legal elements affecting and ruling services and then processed by mixed teams of public administration legal counsels and modelling engineers   Further applications of the transformation steps, in order to cover more services and documents, as still a fraction of the existing manual services and their documents have been modelled.  This task is specifically going to interfere with the so-called vertical standards that is document standards for Health, Banking, Telecommunications or Defence   Extension of the collaborative and participative functionalities of the Interoperability Registry, in an effort to accommodate the work of several committees in an electronic, ubiquitous platform Finally, application of the methodology has already been agreed with the Lithuanian eGovernment Interoperability Framework and discussions are being held with a number of European Union and Associated countries governmental organizations in an effort to further adapt and test the principles, the tools and the assumptions  6. References 1   Altova XML-Spy Authorware Tools, www.altova.com 2   Barone A., Di Pietro P.: Semantic of eGovernment Processes: a Formal Approach to Service Definition Arianna\ Proceedings of eGovINTEROP 2006 Bordeaux \(France 3   Cabinet Office e-Government Unit: e-Government Interoperability Framework, Version 6.1, Retrieved February 5, 2007 from http://www.govtalk.gov.uk/documents/eGIF%20v6_1\(1\.pdf 4   Cabinet Office Office of the e-Envoy, e-Government Metadata Standard, Version 3.1, Retrieved February 5 2007 from http://www.govtalk.gov.uk/documents/eGMS%20vers ion%203_1.pdf 5   Cabinet Office Office of the e-Envoy, Security - eGovernment Strategy Framework Policy and Guidelines Version 4.0, Retrieved Feb. 2007 from http://www.govtalk.gov.uk/documents/security_v4.pdf 6   Cabinet Office, UK GovTalk Schema Library http://www.govtalk.gov.uk/schemasstandards/schemal ibrary.asp, \(2007 7  CEN/ISSS eGov Share Focus Group on Discovery and Access to eGovernment Resources www.cen.eu/ISSS 8  Charalabidis, Y., Askounis D., \(2008 Interoperability Registries in eGovernment Developing a Semantically Rich Repository for Electronic Services and Documents of the new Public Administration, Hawaiian International Conference of System Sciences, HICCS 08, January 7-10, 2008 Hawaii 9  ebXML, http://www.ebxml.org 10   European Commission Enterprise Interoperability Research Roadmap, http://cordis.europa.eu/ist/ict-entnet/ei-roadmap_en.htm    Gartner Group, Preparation for Update European Interoperability Framew ork 2.0 - Final Report, 2007 http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/servlets/Doc?id=29101 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


12   Guijarro L Interoperability frameworks and enterprise architectures in e-government initiatives in Europe and the United States Government Information Quarterly 24 \(1\89-101, Elsevier Inc Jan 2007 13   HKSARG \(Hong Kong Special Administrative Region\roperability Framework, Version 5.1, July 2007 http://www.ogcio.gov.hk/eng/infra/download/s18.pdf 14   HKSARG Common Schemas, http://www.xml.gov.hk 15   IDABC, European Interoperability Framework for pan-European e-Government Services, Version 1.0 Retrieved February 5, 2007 from http://europa.eu.int/idabc/en/document/3761    ISO-3166-1 \(country code list http://www.iso.org/iso/en/prodsservices/iso3166ma/02iso-3166-code-lists/listen1.html    ISO-4217 \(currency code list http://www.iso.org/iso/en/prodsservices/popstds/currencycodeslist.html 18   Joia, L.A Information technology as an enabler for innovation in government-to-citizen processes  Lecture Notes in Computer Science 2739, pp. 430433, 2003 19   KBSt unit at the Federal Ministry of the Interior SAGA Standards and Architectures for e-Government Applications Version 3.0, Retrieved February 5, 2007 from http://www.kbst.bund.de 20   KIU, Danish e-Government Project InfoStructureBase, http://isb.oio.dk/info 21   KIU, Danish Interoperability Framework, Version 1.2.14, 2006 http://standarder.oio.dk/English/Guidelines    Lampathaki F., Charalabidis Y., Sarantis D Koussouris S., Askounis D.: E-Government Services Composition Using Multi-faceted Metadata Classification Structures in Lecture Notes on Computer Science Volume 4656 pp. 116-126 Proceedings of the 6th International  Conference EGOV 2007, Regensburg Germany, September 2007 23   Liu, Y., Zhu, L., Gorton, I Performance assessment for e-government services: An experience report  Lecture Notes in Computer Science  4608 LNCS, pp 74-89, 2007 24   NIEM, http://www.niem.gov/index.php 25   OMG Business Process Modelling Notation \(BPMN Specification, Final Adopted Specification http://www.bpmn.org/Documents/OMG%20Final%20 Adopted%20BPMN%201-0 20Spec%2006-02-1.pdf    Qi Yu, Xumin Liu, Athman Bouguettaya, Brahim Medjahed, Deploying and managing Web services issues, solutions, and  directions, The VLDB Journal Springer, 2005    RosettaNet, http://www.rosettanet.org    Schmidt, R., Lyytinen, K., Keil, M. & Cule, P. \(2001 Identifying software project risks: an international Delphi study. Journal of Management Information Systems, 17, pp. 5-36    SEMIC.EU, http://www.semic.eu 30   Tambouris E, Tarabanis K Overview of DC-based e driven eGovernment service architecture Electronic Government, Proceedings Lecture Notes In Computer Science 3591: 237-248, Springer-Verlag, 2005 31   The ADONIS Modeling Tool, BoC International http://www.boc-group.com 32   The Greek eGIF Website, available at http://www.egif.gov.gr  33   The Standard Cost Model Network http://www.administrative-burdens.com 34   UN/CEFACT Core Components Technical Specification, Part 8 of the ebXML Framework Version 2.01, Retrieved January 25, 2007 from http://www.unece.org/cefact/ebxml/CCTS_V201_Final.pdf    UNECE Units of Measure used in International Trade http://www.unece.org/cefact/recommendations/rec20/r ec20_rev3_Annex2e.pdf    United Nations Development Programme \(UNDP Government Interoperability: A Review of Government Interoperability Frameworks in Selected Countries, 2007, available online at http://www.apdip.net/projects/gif    Sourouni A.-M., Lampathaki F., Mouzakitis S Charalabidis Y., Askounis D.: Paving the way to eGovernment Transformation Interoperability Registry Infrastructure Development, in Proceedings of 7th EGOV Conference 2008, LNCS 5184, pp. 340351, 2008 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


earlier, this difference prompted the creation of two models for Round Two.  For those who said compliance was partial, all were referring to a focus on patient care and keeping units and buddies informed about medical status to the extent that some administrative steps were not always carried out in full, and information about a wounded persons condition was shared with his/her buddies.  In all cases the responses said that patient care took the precedence over administrative requirements.  Situated learning may explain why what takes place on the battlefield doesn?t fit with what was contemplated in the abstract creation of the HIPAA law.  Those in a position to do so may want to revisit the legal and policy positions with regard to HIPAA compliance with security and privacy to take these situated learning behaviors into account When asked to provide suggestions for improvements in how HIPAA requirements could be implemented the panel gave a range of administrative responses. The three most frequent responses were clear written guidance, training on the guidance and clearly marked cover sheets One of the issues mentioned by two members of the panel during the study was unauthorized requests for patient information from unit members and high ranking military members.  The study suggests that when these requests occur, the lack of written guidance puts an extra burden on the medical personnel because they don?t have clear written operating instructions to fall back on.  It is not inconceivable that low ranking military members could be approached for patient PHI by a high ranking military member or even a member of congress.  The pressure felt to release the requested information would likely be immense.  Without clear written Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 guidance to reference, the members would have to rely upon the support of their chain of command to ensure they didn?t release patient PHI to unauthorized individuals.  If they were to release the requested PHI to an unauthorized person, they would have violated HIPAA and could conceivability find themselves facing legal and financial penalties Another and more frequent source of unauthorized requests for patient PHI was reported to come from the members of the patient?s unit.  When a member of a unit is wounded in the course of a mission, it is only natural his or her buddies will likely want to know the status of their team mate.  Under current HIPAA policy, these unit members are not one of the authorized categories authorized to receive this information without the patient?s permission.  The responses from the panel suggest the morale of the remaining members of the wounded individual?s unit should be taken into account, and that the current practice, especially at the initial steps of the model, is to provide at least minimal information to the unit members.  In many cases, the bonds between unit members in combat are as strong as if they were family members. The morale of a unit could be affected by the denial of status information for the fallen team mate and could affect performance in coming missions HIPAA policy allows commanders and their designees to ask for information regarding the status of personnel under them, but is limited to PHI in the interests of fitness for duty and to perform a mission There are other individuals who may have an interest in PHI in a combat situation, other than the commander, and who may not be a ?designee? and 


commander, and who may not be a ?designee? and probably do not have access.  In addition to morale factors, the health information could, in combat, be critical to squad leaders, platoon leaders, flight leaders, or anyone else who might not fit the definition of "commander".  They would certainly be concerned about the person, but would also need to know information" for replacement of a skill set, to protect others, or to assess readiness.  They may need to know the person?s status to know if the person will return or if they will need to request a replacement. A unit missing critical skills sets could be at a disadvantage when operating in the field.  This issue could impact the mission readiness of combat units and may need to be addressed in the future. The Delphi group responses suggest that policy may need to be modified to allow for some information on patient condition to be legally given to unit members on the basis of morale concerns and unit readiness as this may impact readiness of combat units The issues raised by the Delphi panel suggest that the DoD policy formation may not have completely considered HIPAA implications in a combat zone There are provisions in the policy for fitness for duty fitness for a particular mission and casualty reporting but beyond that it seems like DoD may have extended the HIPAA policy without thinking it through.   It may be that DoD wanted to avoid any possibility of a lawsuit or other legal issue and may have extended HIPAA compliance too far down All members of the Delphi Panel chose a model of partial compliance in the combat theater of operations not one of full compliance. Current practice suggests that having freedom of motion in complying with HIPAA during combat seems to be working well according to the Delphi panel. While current interpretation of HIPAA policy does not appear to be full compliance on the battlefield itself, it does appear that full compliance kicks in soon after the wounded person is evacuated and medical treatment is begun and tends to be in place by the time the wounded soldier leaves the theater of operations. It may be worth looking at how the policy can be written to fit how things are actually done In consultation with legal authorities DoD policy and HIPAA policy could be modified to accept current partial HIPAA compliance on the battlefield, thus supporting what was reported to be happening now For example, we may want to consider unit members who may be giving medical aid at the front to be exempt from HIPAA until the wounded reaches the BAS.  Once at the BAS, unit chain of command could be authorized get status and fitness for duty information, and they would then have authority to release information to unit members.  Unit members may receive basic status information such as will they live and will the wounded members return. Once the wounded is at the CSH, status and fitness for duty information could be given to the unit commander?s and down to the squad leader level It was assumed there would be common way to handle battlefield causalities in the military medical system but the research suggests there may be differences in different areas of operations.  Future research may need to tie down for sure if that is true in other cases as well, and if so, how this will have impact on how HIPAA is implemented  7. Conclusions  There does seem to be fairly standard practice and implementation of HIPAA policy in combat areas and 


implementation of HIPAA policy in combat areas and it is one in which the strict interpretation of HIPAA does not come into play until casualties reach a certain Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 stage of the treatment/evacuation process, generally when they leave the theater of war.  Situated learning suggests that this may be based on learning that takes place in the context of actually providing battlefield medicine. The findings of the study suggest that the military may benefit from examining this learned behavior to see if it is to be preferred over current policy.  If the current practice is preferable, the DoD could, in consultation with legal guidance, adjust DoD HIPAA compliance policy at every level of the battlefield medical process to clearly define who can have access to PHI at each stage and under what conditions that access is to be granted If DoD made these changes to the current policy it could go a long way toward clarifying the requirements placed on deployed medical personnel at all levels of the treatment/evacuation model.  Clear written guidance and training would help ensure that the Privacy Rule of HIPAA was complied with and help avoid unnecessary and potentially costly violations of the law.  The more the process can be clarified for the medical personnel all along the treatment/evacuation process the better the chance of full HIPAA compliance at all steps of the process  8. Limitations of the study  An Inherent limitation of all Delphi studies is that results depend on the knowledge of a small set of identified experts.  To the extent that other experts might see things differently, the conclusions could be called into question.  The panel consisted of Air Force medical personnel, with primarily Iraq and Kuwait deployment experience with one member having Afghanistan experience.  A panel with more even distribution between the two theaters of operations might yield more refined insights into HIPAA compliance on the battlefield  9. Recommendations for Future Research  Now that a basic model of the battlefield medical treatment/evacuation process, including HIPAA compliance at each step, has been identified additional research could be done to validate the findings and look at areas beyond the scope of this study The panel consisted of Air Force medical personnel with primarily Iraq and Kuwait deployment experience. One member was knowledgeable about HIPAA issues in Afghanistan, due to past and current deployment experience.  This study could be applied using members of services other than the Air Force to explore the possibility that medical personnel for the Army, Navy and Marines view the treatment/evacuation process differently Situated learning suggests that the modifications made to the rules for undertaking battlefield medicine may be at least partially the result of the chaotic frightening environment within which such services are performed.  However, even if this is the case, this research does not clarify whether this is the best way to implement HIPAA requirements; only that it happens.  This research did not explore all the possible ramifications of working under the developed model versus a more rigidly enforced model of complying with HIPAA. Further research could explore whether 


with HIPAA. Further research could explore whether this descriptive model should also be accepted as a prescriptive model This study assumed there would be a common way to handle battlefield causalities in the medical system, but there is evidence from the research to suggest there may be differences in different areas of operations. The study identified differences between Iraq and Afghanistan, and future research should explore the significance, if any, of this finding Many individuals within the military community but outside the medical field must have access to patient PHI.  A recommendation is made to conduct research on the many non-medical personnel who may have a need to have access to HIPAA information such as unit members, squad leaders, and such.  This could help to identify how these non-medical personnel can best be served while supporting the underlying concepts of HIPAA It would also be very important to explore the legal aspects of this issue, to ensure that solutions meet legal requirements  10. References  1] Antognini, R. \(2002 Consequences: HIPAA and Liability Insurers [Electronic Version]. Defense Counsel Journal. Jul 2002. 69, \(3 306  2] Ash, L. \(2006 track troops wounded in Iraq. Courier Post Online. March 19, 2006  3] Butler, M. \(2002 U.S. Medicine Information Central  4] Clayton, Mark J. ?Delphi: A Technique to Harness Expert Opinion for Critical Decision-Making Tasks in Education?, Educational Psychology, 17:4, \(Dec 1997  5] Dalkey, N.C., Helmer, O. \(1963 Application of the Delphi Method to the Use of Experts Management Science, 9 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9  6] Fowles, J., \(1978 Greenwood Press: Connecticut  7] Greentree \(2004 HIPAA Privacy Compliance. 15 Apr 04.  HQ AF/SGMA  8] Harman, L. B. \(2005 Online Journal of Issues in Nursing. 10\(2  9] Health and Human Services. \(2003 Reform: Security Standards; Final Rule [45 CFR Parts 160 162, and 164  10] Health and Human Services. \(2007 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 14 April 2007  11] Lave J., Wenger E. 1991. Situated Learning. Legitimate peripheral participation, Cambridge, University of Cambridge Press  12] Leahy, P. \(1997 parameters for the information age.  Privacy of Medical Records Committee on Labor and Human Resources, U.S Senate 


Senate  13] Office for Civil Rights. \(2002 Individually Identifiable Health Information; Final Rule [45 CFR Parts 160 and 164  14] Office for Civil Rights. \(2006 Simplification [45 CFR Parts 160, 162 and 164  15] Rowe, Gene, George Wright \(1999 Technique as a forecasting tool: issues and analysis International Journal of Forecasting, 15  16] Westbrook, Lynn. ?Information Access Issues for Interdisciplinary Scholars: Results of a Delphi Study on Women?s Studies Research?, Journal of Academic Librarianship, 23:3, \(May 1997  17] Williams, S. \(2004 troops. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. October 4, 2004  18] Wolfowitz, P. \(2002 Privacy Protections for DoD Medical Records Memorandum to Committee on Armed Services. March 1 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


                                                      


                         L A                                        


          L A  Table 7. Table of Granules at left-hand-side is isomorphic to  at right- hand-side: By Theorem  3.1 one can ?nd patterns in either table as a single generalized concept  Internal points  are:[4]\(1, 1, 0, 0 tions; [5]\(0, 1, 1, 0  0, 1, 0, 1  0, 1, 1, 1  1, 1 1, 0  1, 1, 0, 1  1, 0, 1, 1 11]\(1, 1, 1, 1 form and simplify them into disjoint normal forms 1  T E N    S J    T E N    S J 2  T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A 3  T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   A 4  T W E N T Y            L A 5  T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N    T W E N T Y   A   S J    T W E N T Y   A      T H I R T Y    L A     Y 7  T E N      T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   L A    T E N   L A    S  J   A 8  T W E N T Y      T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N   T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y 9  T W E N T Y    N Y    T E N    S J    T H I R T Y    L A      T W E N T Y    L A  1 0  T W E N T Y    N Y    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A    J 1 1  T W E N T Y          T W E N T Y    L A   T H I R T Y    L A    a l l If the simpli?ed expression is a single clause \(in the original symbols non-generalized the following associations 1   T E N     S J    T E N    S J  2. SJ   J 4   L A    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y    6 Conclusions Data, patterns, method of derivations, and useful-ness are key ingredients in AM. In this paper, we formalize the current state of AM: Data are a table of symbols. The patterns are the formulas of input symbols that repeat. The method of derivations is the most conservative and reliable one, namely, mathematical deductions. The results are somewhat surprising 1. Patterns are properties of the isomorphic class, not an individual relation - This implies that the notion of patterns may not mature yet and explains why there are so many extracted association rules 2. Un-interpreted attributes \(features can be enumerated 3. Generalized associations can be found by solving integral linear inequalities. Unfortunately, the number is enormous. This signi?es the current notion of data and patterns \(implied by the algorithms 4. Real world modeling may be needed to create a much more meaningful notion of patterns. In the current state of AM, a pattern is simply a repeated data that may have no real world meaning. So we may need to introduce some semantics into the data model [12],[10],[11 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE References 1] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami  Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases  in Proceeding of ACM-SIGMOD international Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 


216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 2] Richard A. Brualdi, Introductory Combinatorics, Prentice Hall, 1992 3] A. Barr and E.A. Feigenbaum, The handbook of Arti?cial Intelligence, Willam Kaufmann 1981 4] Margaret H. Dunham, Data Mining Introduction and Advanced Topics Prentice Hall, 2003, ISBN 0-13088892-3 5] Fayad U. M., Piatetsky-Sjapiro, G. Smyth, P. \(1996 From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery: An overview. In Fayard, Piatetsky-Sjapiro, Smyth, and Uthurusamy eds., Knowledge Discovery in Databases AAAI/MIT Press, 1996 6] H Gracia-Molina, J. Ullman. &amp; J. Windin, J, Database Systems The Complete Book, Prentice Hall, 2002 7] T. T. Lee  Algebraic Theory of Relational Databases  The Bell System Technical Journal Vol 62, No 10, December, 1983, pp.3159-3204 8] T. Y. Lin  Deductive Data Mining: Mathematical Foundation of Database Mining  in: the Proceedings of 9th International Conference, RSFDGrC 2003 Chongqing, China, May 2003, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence LNAI 2639, Springer-Verlag, 403-405 9] T. Y. Lin  Attribute \(Feature  The Theory of Attributes from Data Mining Prospect  in: Proceeding of IEEE international Conference on Data Mining, Maebashi, Japan, Dec 9-12, 2002, pp. pp.282-289 10] T. Y. Lin  Data Mining and Machine Oriented Modeling: A Granular Computing Approach  Journal of Applied Intelligence, Kluwer, Vol. 13, No 2, September/October,2000, pp.113-124 11] T. Y. Lin, N. Zhong, J. Duong, S. Ohsuga  Frameworks for Mining Binary Relations in Data  In: Rough sets and Current Trends in Computing, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence 1424, A. Skoworn and L Polkowski \(eds 12] E. Louie,T. Y. Lin  Semantics Oriented Association Rules  In: 2002 World Congress of Computational Intelligence, Honolulu, Hawaii, May 12-17, 2002, 956961 \(paper # 5702 13  The Power and Limit of Neural Networks  Proceedings of the 1996 EngineeringSystems Design and Analysis Conference, Montpellier, France, July 1-4, 1996 Vol. 7, 49-53 14] Morel, Jean-Michel and Sergio Solimini, Variational methods in image segmentation : with seven image processing experiments Boston : Birkhuser, 1995 15] H. Liu and H. Motoda  Feature Transformation and Subset Selection  IEEE Intelligent Systems, Vol. 13 No. 2, March/April, pp.26-28 \(1998 16] Z. Pawlak, Rough sets. Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about Data, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1991 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


than that of MAFIA and the runtime of MHP can be significantly less than that of MAFIA 5.3. The Effect of the MHP Algorithm on Finding Maximal Hyperclique Patterns Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the number of maximal patterns identi?ed byMHP andMAFIA on Pumsb* and Pumsb data sets respectively. As can be seen, the number of maximal hyperclique patterns identi?ed by MHP can be orders of magnitude smaller than the number of maximal frequent patterns identi?ed by MAFIA. In other words, the number Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 1e+07 1e+08 1e+09 0.02 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 0.045 0.05 0.055 0.06 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0 Min_Conf=0.1 Min_Conf=0.3 Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 8. The Number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb* Data Set 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 


1e+07 1e+08 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 9. The number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb Data Set of maximal hyperclique patterns is much easier to manage than that of maximal frequent patterns. Indeed, in realworld applications, it is dif?cult to interpret several million maximal frequent patterns. However, it is possible to interpret the results of maximal hyperclique pattern mining In addition, due to the memory limitation, we cannot extract maximal frequent patterns with MAFIA on the Pumsb data set if the support threshold is less than 0.4, as shown in Figure 7. In contrast, MHP can identify maximal hyperclique patterns when the support threshold is 0.1, if we set the h-con?dence threshold to 0.5. In other words, MHP has the ability to identify patterns which can be dif?cult to identify for MAFIA. Hence, MHP can better explore the pattern space and ?nd interesting patterns at low levels of support 6. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we present a two-phase Maximal Hyperclique Pattern \(MHP best features of both the BFS strategy and the DFS strategy. More speci?cally, we adapted DFS pruning methods such as equivalence pruning, to an apriori-like approach In addition, we proved the correctness and completeness of the MHP algorithm. Finally, our experimental results show that the MHP algorithm can be several orders of magnitude faster than standard maximal frequent pattern mining algorithms and has the ability to identify patterns at extremely low levels of support in dense data sets There are several directions for future work. First, in 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





