A Join-less Approach for Co-location Pattern Mining A Summary of Results Jin Soung Yoo  Shashi Shekhar Mete Celik Computer Science Department University of Minnesota Minneapolis MN USA jyoo,shekhar,mcelik@cs.umn.edu Abstract Spatial co-location patterns represent the subsets of features whose instances are frequently located together in geographic space Co-location pattern discovery presents challenges since the instances of spatial features are embedded in a continuous space and share a variety of spatial 
relationships A large fraction of the computation time is devoted to identifying the instances of co-location patterns We propose a novel join-less approach for co-location pattern mining which materializes spatial neighbor relationships with no loss of co-location instances and reduces the computational cost of identifying the instances The joinless co-location mining algorithm is efìcient since it uses an instance-lookup scheme instead of an expensive spatial or instance join operation for identifying co-location instances The experimental evaluations show the join-less algorithm performs more efìciently than a current join-based algorithm and is scalable in dense spatial datasets 
1 Introduction A spatial co-location pattern represents a subset of spatial features whose instances are frequently located in a spatial neighborhood For example ecologists have found that Nile Crocodiles and Egyptian Plover birds are frequently co-located The co-location rule i.e Nile Crocodile Egyptian Plover predicts the presence of Egyptian Plover birds in areas with Nile Crocodiles Spatial co-location patterns may yield important insights for many applications For example a mobile service provider may be interested in mobile service patterns frequently requested by geographi 
cally neighboring users The frequent neighboring request sets can be used for providing attractive location-sensitive advertisements etc Other application domains include Earth science public health biology transportation etc  This work was partially supported by NSF grant 0431141 and Oak Ridge National Laboratory grant The content of this work does not necessarily reîect the position or policy of the government and no ofìcial endorsement should be inferred Co-location pattern discovery presents challenges due to the following reasons First it is difìcult to nd co-location 
instances since the instances of spatial features are embedded in a continuous space and share neighbor relationships A large fraction of the computation time is devoted to identifying the co-location instances Second it is non-trivial to reuse association rule mining algorithms 1 for colocation pattern mining since there are no pre-deìned transactions in many spatial datasets Thus a current co-location mining algorithm uses a j oin-based approach to nd colocation instances Its computational performance suffers however due to the large number of joins required as the number of features and their instances increases In this paper we propose a method to materialize the 
neighbor relationships of a spatial dataset with no duplication of the neighbor relationships and no loss of co-location instances and present a novel join-less approach for colocation pattern mining The join-less co-location mining algorithm reduces the computational cost of identifying the instances of co-location patterns using an instance-lookup scheme and also has a coarse pruning step which can lter candidate co-locations without nding exact co-location instances The experimental evaluations show the join-less co-location mining algorithm outperforms the join-based algorithm and is scalable in dense spatial datasets Related Work The problem of mining association 
rules based on spatial relationships was rst discussed in  The w ork disco v e rs the subsets of spatial features frequently associated with a speciìc feature e.g cancer Directly applying this method to a co-location problem may not capture our co-location meaning with no speciìc reference feature Previous works on spatial co-location mining have presented different approaches for identifying co-location instances 4 uses space partitioning for identifying neighboring objects for a frequent neighboring feature set However the distinct space partitioning approach may miss co-location instances across partition areas and generate incorrect results 6 proposes an instance join-based co-location mining algorithm similar 
to  The join-based approach is computationally expensive with the increase of co-location patterns Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDMê05 1550-4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


and their instances proposes a p artial join approach to reduce the number of expensive spatial join operations in nding co-location instances However the performance depends on the distribution of the spatial dataset The remainder of the paper is organized as follows Section 2 presents our join-less approach for co-location pattern mining Section 3 presents the experimental evaluation The conclusion and future work are discussed in Section 4 2 A Join-less Approach for Co-location Pattern Mining In this section we discuss a join-less approach for mining co-location patterns First we describe the basic concepts of co-location pattern mining Then we describe our method to materialize spatial neighbor relationships and present the join-less co-location algorithm 2.1 Basic Concepts Given a set of spatial features  a set of their instances  and a neighbor relationship over a co-location is a subset of spatial features whose instances form a clique using a neighbor relationship A co-location rule is of the form where  is the prevalence measure and is the conditional probability For example when a spatial neighbor relationship is a Euclidean distance metric and its threshold value  two spatial objects are neighbors if they satisfy the neighbor relationship e.g A.1 B.1  A.1 B.1  The instance of a co-location is a set of objects which includes an object of each feature type in the co-location and forms a clique relationship among them The interest of a co-location pattern can be measured by its prevalence and conditional probability The conditional probability of a co-location rule is the fraction of instances of in the neighborhood of instances of  i.e   The participation index is used as a co-location prevalence measure First the participation ratio of feature in a co-location is the fraction of objects of features in the neighborhood of instances of co-location  i.e The participation index of a co-location is deìned as  2.2 Neighborhood Materialization The ideal neighborhood materialization for co-location mining is to nd all maximal clique relationships from an B.2 A.2 B.4 C.1 B.1 A.3 A.4 B.5 A.1 C.2 Disjoint star neighborhoods B.3 C.3  d neighbor distance star neighbor relationship of A.1, A.3, B.4 F.i : instance i of feature type F neighborhood area of A.1 d y x     C.3 C.2 C.1 C C.3 C.2 C.1 B.4 C.2 B.5 B.3 , C.1, C.3 B.2 B.1 B B.5 B.4 B.3 B.2 B.1  Neighbor objects A.1 , B.1 , C.1 A.2 , B.4 , C.2 A.3 , B.3 , C.1 A.4 , C.1 Center A A.1 A.2 A.3 A.4 feature object  Figure 1 Neighborhood materialization input dataset However it is computationally expensive We propose to materialize disjoint star neighbor relationships as a framework for efìcient co-location mining Deìnition 1 Given a spatial object whose feature type is the star neighborhood of is deìned as a set of spatial objects where is the feature type of and is a neighbor relationship The star neighborhood of an object is a set of the center object and objects in its neighborhood whose feature types are greater than the feature type of the center object in a lexical order Figure 1 illustrates the method to materialize neighbor relationships of a spatial dataset The neighborhood areas of objects A.1 A.3 and B.4 are represented by dotted circles whose radii are a user speciìc neighbor distance The black solid lines in each circle represent a star neighbor relationship with the center object A.1 has two neighboring objects B.1 and C.1 The star neighborhood of A.1 is A.1 B.1 C.1 including the center object A.1 In the case of A.3 three neighboring objects are present A.4 B.3 and C.1 However A.4 is not included in the star neighborhood set of A.3 since we focus on co-location relationships among different feature types Next consider the neighborhood of B.4 B.4 has two neighbor objects A.2 and C.2 However A.2 is not included in the star neighborhood set of B.4 since the neighbor relationship between A.2 and B.4 is already reîected in the star neighborhood set of A.2 A set of all star neighborhoods of the spatial dataset is listed in Figure 1 Deìnition 2 Let be a set of spatial objects whose feature types are different If all objects in are neighbors to the rst object  is called a star instance of co-location   In Figure 1 a subset of the A.1 star neighborhood including A.1 A.1 B.1 C.1 is a star instance of A B C  Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDMê05 1550-4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


A.3 , B.3 , C.1 Feature A star neighborhoods PHASE I A      B      C 4 PHASE II star instances 3/4 3/5 2/3 participation index B B.1 B.2 B.3 B.4 B.5 C A.2 , B.4 , C.2     Level 2 A A.1 A.2 A.3 A.4 Level 1 A.1 , B.1 , C.1 C.1 A.3 , B.3 A      B instances clique A      C A.1 , C.1 A.2 , C.2 A.3 , C.1 A.4 , C.1 4/4 2/3 B      C B.3 , C.1 B.3 , C.3 B.4 , C.2 2/5 3/3 Check if it is a clique Level 3 A.2 , B.4 C.2 C.3 PHASE III single instance count Feature B star neighborhoods Feature C star neighborhoods 3 5 on star instances if < threshold, itês pruned A      C A.1 , C.1 A.2 , C.2 A.3 , C.1 A.4 , C.1 B      C B.3 , C.1 B.3 , C.3 B.4 , C.2 A.1 , B.1  A.1  B.1  C.1 A.2  B.4  C.2 A.3  B.3  C.1 A      B      C 2/5 2/3 true 2/4 A.4 , C.1 A.3 , B.3 , C.1 A.2 , B.4 , C.2 A.1 , B.1 , C.1 B.1 B.2 B.3 , C.1, C.3 B.5 C.2 B.4 C.1 C.2 C.3     participation index            3/5 3/4 A.1 , B.1 A.2 , B.4 A.3 , B.3 A      B     Figure 2 Join-less algorithm trace 2.3 Join-less Co-location Mining Algorithm The join-less co-location mining algorithm has three phases The rst phase converts an input spatial dataset into a set of disjoint star neighborhoods The second phase gathers the star instances of candidate co-locations from the star neighborhood set and coarsely lters candidate co-locations by the prevalence value of the star instances The third phase lters co-location instances from the star instances and nds prevalent co-locations and generates co-location rules Figure 2 illustrates a join-less algorithm trace Algorithm 1 shows the pseudo code Convert a spatial dataset to a set of disjoint star neighborhoods Step 1 Given an input dataset and a neighbor relationship rst nd all neighboring object pairs using a geometric method such as plane sweep or a s patial query method using quaternary tree or R-tree 5 The star neighborhoods are generated by grouping the neighboring objects per each object Figure 2 shows the star neighborhoods sorted by the feature type of the center objects Generate candidate co-locations\(Step 4 Size   candidate co-locations are generated from prevalent size co-locations Here we have a feature level ltering of co-locations If any subset of a candidate co-location is not prevalent the candidate co-location is pruned Filter the star instances of candidate co-locations from the star neighborhood set\(Step 5 The star instances of a candidate co-location are gathered from the star neighborhoods whose center object feature type is the same as the rst feature of the candidate co-location For example the instances of a candidate co-location B C are gathered from the feature B star neighborhoods and the instances of A B C are gathered from the feature A star neighborhoods Notice that the number of candidate co-locations examined in each star neighborhood is much smaller than  Algorithm 1 Join-less co-location mining algorithm Inputs a set of spatial feature types a spatial dataset a neighbor relationship  Output A set of all prevalent co-location rules with participation index and conditional probability Variables   a set of star neighborhoods a set of size candidate co-locations star instances of size candi co-locations clique instances of size candi co-locations a set of size prevalent co-locations a set of size co-location rules Method 1 gen star neighborhoods    2   2 3 while not empty o 4 gen candidate co-locations  5 for do 6 filter star instances  7 end do 8 if  2 then 9 else do select coarse prev co-location   10 filter clique instances  11 end do 12 select prev co-location  13 gen co-location rules  14  1 15 end do 16 return  the number of actual candidate co-locations Select coarse prevalent co-locations using their star instances\(Step 9 The size 2 star instances are clique instances since our neighbor relationship is symmetric For size 3 or more we need to check if the star instance is a clique instance Before this procedure we have a coarse ltering step of co-locations If the participation index calculated from the star instances of a candidate co-location is less than a prevalent threshold the candidate co-location is pruned without examining exact co-location instances Filter co-location instances\(Step 10 From the star instances of a candidate co-location we lter its co-location instances by looking up all the instances of the co-location of features except the rst feature of the candidate colocation For example to check the cliqueness of a star instance A.1 B.1 C.1 of co-location A B C weexamine if a subinstance B.1 C.1 except A.1 is in the set of clique instances of co-location B C  This instance look up operation can be performed efìciently by an instance key which is composed of the ids of objects in the instance Select prevalent co-location patterns\(Step 12 The reìnement ltering of co-locations is done by the participation index values calculated from their co-location instances Prevalent co-locations satisfying the minimum prevalence threshold are selected Generate co-location rules\(Step 13 All co-location rules satisfying a given minimum conditional probability are generated from a set of prevalent co-locations Steps 3Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDMê05 1550-4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


 0  50  100  150  200  250  300  350  400  10  15  20  25  30  35  40  45  50   Execution time \(sec  Number of total points\(K  join-less\(dense    join-based\(dense     join-less\(sparse     join-based\(sparse                a  0  50  100  150  200  250  20  25  30  35  40  45  50  55  60   Execution time \(sec  Number of features  join-less\(dense    join-based\(dense     join-less\(sparse     join-based\(sparse                b  0  100  200  300  400  500  10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90  100   Execution time \(sec  Neighbor distance  join-less    join-based     c Figure 3 Efìciency of the join-less co-location mining algorithm 15 are repeated as the size of co-location patterns increases 3 Experimental Evaluation We evaluate the join-less co-location algorithm with the join-based co-location algorithm using synthetic datasets Synthetic datasets were generated using a spatial data generator similar to the data generator used in 6 The number of features is 20 the average size of co-locations is 5 the neighbor distance is 10 and the prevalence threshold is 0.3 All the experiments were performed on a Sun SunBlade 1500 with 1.0 GB main memory and 177MHz CPU 1 Effect of the number of point objects First we compared the effect of the number of points We used two different spatial frames and  In the rst frame even if the number of points is increased from 10K to 50K the two algorithms showed similar execution time since the datasets are still sparse In the second frame with the increase of number of points the join-based algorithm execution time is dramatically increased due to the increase of data density As shown in Figure 3 a the join-less algorithm shows scalability to large dense datasets 2 Effect of the number of features In the second experiment we compared the performance of the algorithms as a function of the number of features We also used two different dense datasets of 15K points Figure 3 b shows the results In the sparse dataset the algorithms show similar execution time even if the number of features increases In the dense dataset overall execution time is decreased with the increase of features The reason is that under the same number of points the increase of features causes the number of points per each feature to be decreased which in turn may lead to a decrease in the number of co-location instances Overall the join-less algorithm shows better performance 3 Effect of neighbor distance The third experiment examined the effect of different neighbor distances 10 20 40 80 and 100 As shown in Figure 3 c the join-less algorithm shows less increase in the execution time with the increase of distance threshold The join-based algorithm shows a rapid increase since the neighbor distance increase makes the neighborhood areas larger and increases the number of co-location instances 4 Conclusion and Future Work In this paper we propose a join-less co-location mining algorithm with a neighborhood materialization The algorithm is efìcient since it does not require expensive spatial joins or instance joins for identifying co-location instances The experimental evaluation shows the join-less method outperforms the join-based method and is scalable to dense datasets As future work we plan to explore methods to answer temporal questions such as how a co-location changes over time as well as methods to identify objects showing similar moving patterns References  R Ag arw al and R Srikant F ast algorithms for Mining association rules In Proc of Intêl Conference on Very Large Databases\(VLDB  1994  M Ber g M Kre v e ld O M and O Schwarzkopf Computational Geometry  Springer 2000  K K operski and J Han Disco v e ry of Spatial Association Rules in Geographic Information Databases In Proc of Intêl Symposium on Large Spatial Data bases Maine 47-66  1995  Y  Morimoto Mining Frequent Neighboring Class Sets in Spatial Databases In Proc ACM SIGKDD Intêl Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  2001  S Shekhar and S Cha wla Spatial Databases A Tour Prentice Hall 2003  S Shekhar and Y  Huang Co-location Rules Mining A S ummary of Results In Proc of Intêl Symposium on Spatio and Temporal Database\(SSTD  2001  J Y o o and S Shekhar  A P artial Join Approach for Mining Co-location Patterns In Proc of ACM Intêl Symposium on Advances in Geographic Information Systems\(ACM-GIS  2004 Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDMê05 1550-4786/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


ity of the clusters. Results show that the running time for both algorithms increases linearly with the size of the dataset, and quadratically with the dimensionality of the dataset. The difference between the two algorithms remains constant for all dataset size and dimensionalities. Differences between the performances of the two algorithms become more signi?cant with the increasing dimensionality of the clusters. The running time for density only pruning increases exponentially with the increasing of the cluster dimensionality, while pruning with both minimum density and succinctness has almost constant running time. This is because the data produced by the synthetic data generator has very simple structures. For example, if we design a ?ve-dimensional subspace cluster in S = {a1, a2, a3, a4, a5}, the data generator causes all the data in this cluster to be evenly distributed in each of these ?ve dimensions. So the equally succinct cluster can be equivalently de?ned by a three-dimensional subset of S, such as S? = {a1, a2, a3}. When the succinctness property is used in pruning, the algorithm stops when it ?nds the three-dimensional clusters. Although the dimensionality of the speci?ed clusters is ve or even higher, the succinctness property guarantees that we only ?nd the simplest descriptions for each of the subspace clusters Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  05 1550-4786/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE Real Data: We also tested our algorithm on the mushroom data set [5] and the cancer data [4 1 10 100 1000 10000 100000 1000000 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 size of subspaces n u m be r of s ub sp ac es e va lu at ed density only with succinct \( &gt;5 with succinct \( &gt;20 Figure 2. Mushroom Dataset Mushroom dataset contains 8124 instances \(rows tributes \(columns removed. Minimum density threshold is set to be 1%. Figure 2 shows the number of subspaces being evaluated for three different threshold values of the succinctness property 1. The y-axis is the logarithm of the number of subspace being evaluated. The effectiveness of the succinctness pruning becomes more signi?cant with the increasing of the dimensionality of the subspace for both  gt; 5  and  gt; 20  The ratio of the number of subspaces being evaluated between  gt; ?1  and  gt; 5  increases exponentially from 1.25 in size-2 subspaces to 44723 in size-9 subspaces, while the difference between  gt; 5  and  gt; 20  stays below 2.56. The big difference between the density only pruning and with succinctness pruning is because many of the dense regions are not succinct and using density only pruning produces many duplicates. The small difference between the two succinctness pruning thresholds 


small difference between the two succinctness pruning thresholds suggest that the clusters for this dataset are very crisp, in the sense that any two clusters contain at least a certain number of different objects from each other Cancer dataset contains the micro-array gene expression data of 2000 genes \(rows columns ues are discretized into binary values, representing expressed and not-expressed. Several combinations of different minimum density threshold values and succinctness threshold values are tried on this data set. Similar to the mushroom dataset, the ratio of pruned subspaces becomes more signi?cant with the increasing of the dimensionality. Our tests also show that the number of subspaces being evaluated remains almost stable when the minimum density threshold values goes from 1% to 10%, while a slight change of the succinctness threshold values from 15 to 20 reduces a large number of subspaces being evaluated. The lattice of subspace clusters can not ?t in the main memory any more when the size of subspaces reaches 6 for the case of  gt; 15  This means that cancer dataset contains many clusters having minuscule difference in the object set. One explanation is that every gene is distinctive, so adding or removing a small number of genes may lead to another 1  gt; ?1    gt; 5  and  gt; 20  respectively, where  gt; ?1  refers density only pruning meaningful cluster 6 Conclusions We have presented a levelwise search subspace clustering algorithm to build a lattice of clusters, which satisfy various user speci?ed combinations of different properties ef?ciently. One doable extension of the current research is when the lattice of subspace clusters is too large to ?t in the main memory. One possible solution is to ?nd the  skeleton  of the lattice initially, and enrich it as requested by the user. Here the  skeleton  can be de?ned in various ways, such as setting a higher size constraints or a constraint on the objects and attributes being involved References 1] R. Agrawal, J. Gehrke, D. Gunopulos, and P. Raghavan. Automatic subspace clustering of high dimensional data for data mining applications. In ACM SIGMOD Conference Proceedings, pages 94  105, 1998 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining assciation rules between sets of items in large databases. In Proceedings of ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data pages 207  216, 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Mining sequential patterns. In Proceedings of 11 International Conference on Data Engineering, pages 3  14, 1995 4] U. Alon, N. Barkai, D. A. Notterman, K. Gish, S. Ybarra D. Mack, and A. J. Levine. Broad patterns of gene expression revealed by clustering of tumor and normal colon tissues probed by oligonucleotide arrays. In Proceedings of National Academy Science, pages 6745  6750, 1999 5] C. Blake and C. Merz. UCI repository of machine learning databases, 1998 6] C. H. Cheng, A. W.-C. Fu, and Y. Zhang. Entropy-based subspace clustering for mining numerical data. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pages 84  93, 1999 7] S. Goil, H. Nagesh, and A. Choudhary. Ma?a: ef?cient and scalable subspace clustering for very large data sets. Technical Report CPDC-TR-9906-010, Northwestern University 1999 8] P. Krger, H. P. Kriegel, and K. Kailing. Density-connected subspace clustering for high-dimensional data. In Proceedings of SIAM International Conference on Data Mining pages 246  257, 2004 9] C. Lindig. Fast concept analysis. In Working with Conceptual Structures - Contributions to ICCS, 2000 10] L. D. Raedt and S. Kramer. The levelwise version space algorithm and its application to molecular fragment ?nding In Proceedings of IJCAI, 2001 Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  05 1550-4786/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


1550-4786/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


ear The speedup is 1.65 for the 2-node system indicating some degree of parallelization overhead mainly due to the interprocess communication to exchange the support count information The speedup is 3.76 for the 4-node system but the increasing rate of the speedup is 2.27 as the number of nodes is doubled from 2 to 4 As the number of nodes is doubled from 4 to 8 the increasing rate of the speedup is higher than linear again which indicates that PMIHP is quite scalable Number of Processors Time \(seconds 0 20000 40000 60000 80000 1 2 4 8 Figure 6 Total execution time of PMIHP to nd frequent 3-itemsets in 1,427 documents minsup  0.15 Number of Processors Speedup    0 2 4 6 8 2 4 8 Figure 7 Speedup of PMIHP minsup  0.15 The PMIHP algorithm has two main data mining activities counting the support of local candidate itemsets in the corresponding local database and counting the support of global candidate itemsets in multiple local databases These two activities are interleaved during the mining as the global support counting is invoked when the number of identiﬁed global candidate itemsets exceeds a certain number at each processing node which was set to 20,000 in our experiments To measure this global support counting time we reconﬁgured PMIHP to defer the global support counting of the global candidate itemsets at each node and synchronized the nodes before the start of the global support counting phase Figure 8 shows the global support counting time of the mining process with the logest run time among all the mining processes executed on different processing nodes Moreover we used the wall clock time to measure this global counting time hence it is an upper bound of the actual global support counting time of all the mining processes Comparing Figures 6 and 8 we can see that the 2-node case has a much longer global support counting phase than 4-node and 8-node cases The portion of the global support counting phase for the 2-node case is about 8 of the total execution time but it is about 4 for the 4-node case and about 3 for the 8-node case Thus the impact of the global support counting time on the overall speedup is very small and it is reduced further as the number of processing nodes increases Number of Processors Time \(seconds 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 2 4 8 Figure 8 Global support counting time to nd frequent 3-itemsets Since our processing environment does not provide the statistics for job accounting exact CPU time measurement was not feasible So we measured the average execution of a processing node using the wall clock time Figure 9 shows the average execution time of a node in the 1-node 2-node 4-node and 8-node conﬁgurations We can see that the 2-node case requires signiﬁcantly less average execution time per node than the 1-node case and as the number of processing nodes increases further the average execution time per node deceases more than linearly This result is completely consistent with the observed speedup values and also indicates that increased efﬁciency is behind the performance gain Since the identical PMIHP algorithm was executed on all of our system conﬁgurations the differences in execution time must be associated with some workload differences Figure 10 shows the average number of candidate 0-7695-2132-0/04/$17.00 \(C Proceedings of the 18th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium \(IPDPSê04 


Number of Processors Time \(seconds 0 20000 40000 60000 80000 1 2 4 8 Figure 9 Average execution time per node to nd frequent 3-itemsets 2-itemsets processed by each node in our four different system conﬁgurations Note that the number of candidate 2itemsets for the 1-node case is approximately the same as the average number of candidate 2-itemsets for the 2-node case This result is consistent with the observed total and average execution times for the 1-node and 2-node cases There is signiﬁcant reduction in the average number of candidate 2-itemsets processed for the 4-node and 8-node cases over the 1-node and 2-node cases This result represents the nonuniform distribution of itemsets over the local databases as well as the effective reduction of the candidate itemsets by the Inverted Hashing and Pruning technique Number of Candidate 2-itemsets 0 100000 200000 300000 400000 MIHP 2-node PM IHP 4-node PM IHP 8-node PM IHP Figure 10 Average number of candidate 2itemsets per node Figure 11 shows the average number of candidate 3itemsets processed by each node We included the number of candidate 3-itemsets processed in Apriori to demonstrate the usefulness of the Inverted Hashing and Pruning The number of candidate 2-itemsets for Apriori was about 82 million which is why we did not show that in Figure 10 We can observe the same pattern of reduction in the candidates 3-itemsets as in the candidate 2-itemsets This reduction in the average number of candidate itemsets processed by each processing node may be the most clear explanation for the high increasing rate of the speedup observed as the number of processing nodes increases Number of Candidate 3-itemsets 0 200000 400000 600000 800000 Apriori MIHP 2-node PM IHP 4-node PM IHP 8-node P M IHP Figure 11 Average number of candidate 3itemsets per node We also ran a test with a larger database 8 weeks of the Wall Street Journal published from January 2 1991 through February 22 1991 February 23rd was a Wall Street Journal holiday There were 6,170 documents and 64,191 unique words of which 31,948 were frequent words at the minimum support level of 0.03 i.e 2 out of 6,170 documents The 1-node system required 845,702 seconds to nd 1,554,442 frequent 2-itemsets whereas the 8-node system required 33,183 seconds This performance represents a superliner speedup of 25.5 of the 8-node system over the 1-node system Thus we can conclude that the performance of PMIHP is quite scalable when the database is large and the minimum support level is low which is the case of high workload The 1-node case generated 16,174,357 candidate 2itemsets whereas the 8-node case generated 2,459,629 candidate 2-itemsets per node on the average The total number of candidate 2-itemsets counted by the 8 nodes were 19,677,031 which means that only 21.7 of the candidate 2-itemsets were counted at more than one processing node This implies that the distribution of words across the 8-week sample of the Wall Street Journal is quite skewed In the Count Distribution algorithm all the nodes count the same set of candidate itemsets in each pass over the database regardless of the distribution of items over the local databases On the other hand in our PMIHP algorithm not all candidate itemsets are counted at more than one node when the distribution of items over the local databases is not uniform Obviously the more skewed the data distribution the better the performance of PMIHP Cheung et al 4 propos ed s e v e ral approaches to partition the databas e 0-7695-2132-0/04/$17.00 \(C Proceedings of the 18th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium \(IPDPSê04 


to achieve a high degree of skewness Text documents arranged in a chronological order do appear to have a high degree of skewness and beneﬁt the PMIHP algorithm 4 Conclusions The proposed Parallel Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning PMIHP algorithm is a parallel version of our Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning MIHP algorithm and it is effective for mining frequent itemsets in large text databases The Multipass approach reduces the required memory space at each processor by partitioning the frequent items and pro cessing each partition separately Thus the number of candidate itemsets to be processed is limited at each instance The Inverted Hashing and Pruning is used to prune the local and global candidate itemsets at each processing node and it also allows each processing node to determine the other peer processing nodes to poll in order to collect the local support counts of each global candidate itemset PMIHP distributes the workload to multiple processing nodes to reduce the total mining time without incurring much parallelization overhead The average number of candidate itemsets to be counted at each processing node is much smaller than the case of sequential mining while the time for the synchronization between processing nodes to exchange the count information for the global candidate itemsets is very small compared to the total execution time PMIHP is able to exploit the natural skewed distribution of words in text databases and demonstrates a superlinear speedup as the number of processing nodes increases It has a much better performance than well-known parallel Count Distribution algorithm 2 becaus e the a v erage number of candidate itemsets to be counted at each processing node is much smaller especially when the minimum support level is low Overall the performance of PMIHP is quite scalable even when the size of the text database is large and the minimum support level is low which is the case of high workload References  R  A gra w al and R  S r i kant   Fast Al gori t h ms for M i n i n g A ssociation Rules Proc of the 20th VLDB Conf  1994 pp 487–499  R Agra w a l and J C S hafer  Paral l e l M i n i n g o f A ssoci at i o n Rules IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 8 No 6 1996 pp 962–969 3 M  S  C hen J Han and P  S  Y u   Dat a Mi ni ng An Overview from a Database Perspective IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 8 No 6 1996 pp 866–883 4 D  W  C heung S  D L ee and Y  Xi ao  E f f ect of Dat a S k e w ness and Workload Balance in Parallel Data Mining IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 14 No 3 2002 pp 498–514 5 S  M  C hung and J Y ang  A Par al l e l D i s t r i b ut i v e J oi n A l gorithm for Cube-Connected Multiprocessors IEEE Trans on Parallel and Distributed Systems  Vol 7 No 2 1996 pp 127–137  R  F e l dman and H Hi rsh F i ndi ng Associ at i ons i n Col l ections of Text Machine Learning and Data Mining Methods and Applications  R Michalski I Bratko and M Kubat editors John Wiley and Sons 1998 pp 223–240  R F e l dman I Dagen and H  H i rsh Mi ni ng T e xt Usi n g Keyword Distributions Journal of Intelligent Information Systems  Vol 10 No 3 1998 pp 281–300  C  Fox L e x i cal Anal ysi s and S t opl i s t s   Inforamtion Retrieval Data Structures and Algorithms W.FrakesandR Baeza-Yates editors Prentice Hall 1992 pp 102–130 9 M  G or don and S  Dumai s Usi ng L a t e nt S e mant i c I nde xi ng for Literature Based Discovery Journal of the Amer Soc of Info Science  Vol 49 No 8 1998 pp 674–685  J Han J P e i  and Y  Y i n Mi n i n g F r equent Pat t e r n s w i t hout Candidate Generation Proc of ACM SIGMOD Intêl Conf on Management of Data  2000 pp 1–12  J D Holt and S  M Chung Multipass Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Text Databases Knowledge and Information Systems  Vol 3 No 2 Springer-Verlag 2001 pp 168–183  J D Hol t and S  M C hung Mi ni ng Associ at i o n R ul es Using Inverted Hashing and Pruning Information Processing Letters  Vol 83 No 4 Elsevier Science 2002 pp 211–220  J D Hol t and S  M C hung Mi ni ng associ at i o n R ul es i n Text Databases Using Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning Proc of the 14th IEEE Intêl Conf on Tools with Artiìcial Intelligence  2002 pp 49–56  J S  Park M S  C hen and P  S  Y u   Usi n g a Hash-B a sed Method with Transaction Trimming for Mining Association Rules IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 9 No 5 1997 pp 813–825  G  S a l t on Automatic Text Processing The Transformation Analysis and Retrieval of Information by Computer  Addison-Wesley Publishing 1988  E  M V oorhees and D K Harmon edi t o rs The Fifth Text Retrieval Conference  National Institute of Standards and Technology 1997  O R  Z a i a ne and M L  Ant o i ne C l assi f y i n g T e x t D ocuments by Associating Terms with Text Categories Proc of the 13th Australian Database Conf  2002 0-7695-2132-0/04/$17.00 \(C Proceedings of the 18th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium \(IPDPSê04 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


