Design of an Adaptive Communication System for Implementation on Board a Future Algerian LEO Satellite L Hadj Abderrahmane D.E Baba Hamed Centre of Space Techniques Division of Space Instrumentation 1 Avenue de la Palestine Arzew Algeria hadjabderrahmanelgyahoo.fr M Benyettou University of Sciences and Technology USTO Modelling and Simulation Laboratory USTO M'naouarl Oran Algeria med benyettouayahoo.fr Abstract Understanding of the physical communications environment from low Earth orbits is the key to the successful implementation of the 
communications system This already complex environment is further complicated by the constraints of the microsatellite platform The small low mass platform offers limited downlink power and a small antenna envelope and ground plane This affects the performance of both uplink and downlink in the fading LEO environment The little LEO satellite systems must be designed to operate in the presence of this environment The concept of adaptivity is of paramount importance in the 
design of future LEO satellite communication systems in which a careful exploitation of the limited available resources bandwidth power etc is required An adaptive system that can increase the rate of data transmission is desired This system should be capable of changing its rate in response to the current signal conditions An adaptive modulation scheme which uses different constellation patterns with multi-level Turbo-coded modulation is proposed to be implemented on board 
the future Algerian Microsatellite Basic concepts are highlighted and an overview of the achieved results is presented The system is tested under AWGN noise and Rayleigh fading conditions The system is found to provide good performance in AWGN and moderate fading conditions 1 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 2 Low EARTH ORBIT COMMUNICATION ENVIRONMENT 2 3 FADING MARGIN 2 4 LEO SATELLITE SYSTEM 2 5 COMMUNICATION CHANNEL 
 2 6 TURBO CODE  MULTILEVEL TURBO CODED MODULATION 3 7 PROBABILITY OF ERROR 4 8 CONCLUSIONS 5 REFERENCES 5 BIOGRAPHY 5 1 1 1-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper  1084 Version 4 Updated September 10 2007 1 INTRODUCTION Low Earth orbiting satellites utilise altitudes between 600 km and 2000 km Below 600 km the orbital lifetime before the satellite re-enters the Earth's atmosphere is 
too limited and unpredictable With increasing altitude the orbital lifetime and diameter of the satellite footprint increase however the radiation environment caused by the Van Allen belts also increases sharply reducing the lifetime of electronic components and necessitating extra shielding Most satellites in LEO use altitudes between 700 and 1300 km The orbital inclination the angle between the orbital and the equatorial plane determines the extent of coverage of the earth's surface and also the frequency of visibility for a given 
latitude The polar sun-synchronous circular orbit is a common low Earth orbit choice for remote sensing LEO satellites unlike geostationary satellites which are always in a fixed position in the sky relative to a ground station vary in elevation and signal strength As they drop towards the horizon the signal to noise ratio gets worse and the signal is affected by fading and shadowing Fixed modulation schemes are designed to cope with 
the worst case signal conditions that the system will operate under and are unable to take advantage of the stronger signal conditions that occur at higher elevations An adaptive modulation scheme that can increase the rate of data transmission is desired This system should be capable of changing its rate in response to the current signal conditions The modulation/coding scheme was designed with Amateur Packet radio in mind 1 1 


2 LOW EARTH ORBIT COMMUNICATION ENVIRONMENT Little information exists regarding the nature of the interference environment seen at the satellite in orbit partly due to the small number of satellites currently using these bands equipped for making measurements 2 3 FADING MARGIN Although the ARQ protocol can cope with large levels of slow fading it becomes increasingly less efficient for terminals with low margins and for fast fading effects comparable with packet lengths Unlike the random effects of the terrestrial cellular models the simplest approach to modelling the LEO microsatellite link is that of the Rician/Rayleigh environment An additional factor is the LEO satellite Simple measurements and simulations show good correlations between the satellite received signal strength and that predicted for a single scattering signal when compensated for change in range and satellite antenna pattern as azimuth and elevation change Using measurements from a small terminal equipped with omnidirectional circularly polarised antennas a fading margin of 6dB over the best case link has been established for use in combination with the LEO microsatellite link at low elevation angles in a partially blocked urban environment The presence of this typical signature has also been observed in measurements of signal strength from a range of environments including ship-borne stations Larger fades due to blocking and the satellite antenna pattern are coped with using the ARQ facility 4 LEO SATELLITE SYSTEM When the satellite is high above the horizon a signal to noise ratio SNR of up to 30dB is possible This is reduced as the elevation above the horizon is reduced and is severely affected by fading and shadowing at low elevations A fixed modulation scheme is however unable to take advantage of periods of good signal to noise conditions and thus is suboptimum In this article an adaptive modulation scheme is proposed for a 9600 bps BPSK satellite channel The design of the system is such that it could be implemented on board a future satellite The one way satellite to earth communication system is shown in figure 1 The signal is coded and modulated at the ground station before it is transmitted to the satellite uplink where it is demodulated and decoded before being retransmitted downlink The LEO satellite channel undergoes the following degradations  Fading and shadowing Multipath fading and shadowing become increasingly severe as the elevation of the satellite decreases At low elevations the specular component becomes the same as that of the diffuse signal and Rayleigh fading occurs  Doppler Shifts The motion of the LEO satellite gives rise to Doppler shifts The Doppler frequency spread for a LEO satellite ranges from approximately 2kHz to 50kHz  Interleaving Depth Interleaving is used to provide a memoryless channel If the interleaving depth is not greater than the maximum anticipated fade depth infinite interleaving is required for a completely memoryless channel performance degradation will result  Adjacent Channel Interference The satellite channel is a channelised environment and will suffer from degradation from adjacent channels  The fading environment of the LEO microsatellite communications is very complex which is described by a combination of Rice and Rayleigh distributions Interleaving was employed to approximate a memoryless channel Digital Encoder Modulator Input Rician/Rayleigh Channel Digital Decoder DeOutput Modulator Figure 1 Satellite to Earth communication system 5 COMMUNICATION CHANNEL The fading channel model is given by the next relationship Y\(t t t t 1 where x\(t is the transmitted complex signal n\(t is the complex additive white Gaussian noise AWGN and oc\(t is the fading envelope The instantaneous and average CSNR are defined as 7 cc2p 2 BNo 2 


where P denote the constant transmit signal power B is the bandwidth and No is the noise power density The expected value is y  E[y  BNo The bit error rate BER of coherent M-QAM over an additive white Gaussian noise AWGN channel is given by L Hanzo W.T.Webb 2000 We have 3 5 BER l41ogM M XJ Experimental and analytical results in this paper are obtained assuming Rayleigh fading That is it is assumed that the received complex fading envelope lz\(t has a Rayleigh distribution Then the CSNR has an exponential distribution with expectation y where y is the carrier to noise ratio log2\(M is the number of bits per symbol this number is even and Q is related to the error function It is more practical to study the performance of adaptive discrete rate ADR MQAM where the constellation size M is restricted to 2 for i positive integer f  4 7 7 6 TURBO CODE  MULTILEVEL TURBO CODED MODULATION In 1993 Claude Berrou et al introduced a class of new parallel concatenated convolutional codes known as Turbo Codes 3 Its performance which was only 0.7dB from the Shannon limit was a large improvement over other coding methods at the time Another advantage of Turbo Codes is that it keeps the overall complexity The key concept is to use a set of decoders working in a feedback connection where each decoder accepts an estimate of the log likelihood-ratio LLR of each information bit at its input and improves the accuracy of this estimate The LLR is a measure of total information about an information bit This information comes from two sources Some part of this information comes from the received data bit and is called the intrinsic information The other part of this information comes from the other decoder and is called the extrinsic information The extrinsic information is passed between decoders whereas the intrinsic information is not This operation iterates a number of times in the feedback loop of the decoders and finally a hard decision is made on each input bit In this paper an AMC system is used The system is a discrete time system with k denoting the time index A source generating an independent identically distributed binary data sequence feeds the turbo coded adaptive modulator which can be further subdivided into an adaptive encoder and an adaptive modulator The adaptive encoder is mainly made up of two RSC encoders with a restricted interleaver between them A puncturer is used to obtain a large code family The strategy adopted is as follows the CNR range is divided into N+1 fading regions and the constellation size M is assigned to the nth region i=0 1 2 N When the received CNR is estimated to be in the nth region the constellation size M is transmitted Suppose we fix a target BER to equal to 10-6 then the threshold yi are then set to CNR required to achieve the target BER using Mi-QAM over an AWGN channel then we can obtain the y expression by inverting equation 5 with yo=O and yN+1=+oIn this section the codecs are composed of Turbo codecs and subsequent high level modulation All codecs have a block length of 1024 bits The code rate spectral efficiency and constellations size and type for each of the N 8 codecs indexed with n E 1 2     N are listed in Table 1 Table 1 Codec indices code rates spectral efficiency and constellations sizes and types for the 8 example codecs employing Turbo coding Codec Code Spectral Constellation indices rate efficiency size 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 V2 2/3 3/4 4/5 5/6 6/7 7/6 8/7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 4-QAM 8-QAM 16-QAM 32-QAM 64-QAM 128-QAM 256-QAM 5 12-QAM Figure 2 shows the number of bits per symbol as function of CNR y for adaptive discrete rate M-QAM with 10 regions 3 


According to the estimated CNR the M-QAM scheme is transmitted Each fading region is associated with one signal constellation and one transmit power The choice of the number of regions to use in the adaptive strategy will depend on how fast the channel is changing as well as on the hardware constraints which dictate how many constellations are available to the transmitter and at what rate the transmitter can change its constellation and power However determining how long the channel gain remains within a particular region is of interest since it determines the trade-off between the number of regions and the rate of power and constellation adaptation 4 Since the choice of M is done the technique operates at an average BER smaller than the target BER Thus we are interested to calculate the average bit error rate given by 0 7 Finally the average bit error rate in a Rayleigh fading channel using the ADR-MQAM techniques is given by Pe=2 1 F37y1oM FMi1g92M L 2\(M-1 8 Figure 3 shows the bit error rate comparison in case of Rayleigh fading channel and AWGN channel We observe that the difference is dramatic average BER is inverse in average yrather than exponential as for AWGN channel For the fade margin we should plan an additional increase in SNR to keep the same average BER as in a fixed AWGN channel or use the ADR-MQAM technique Figure 2 Modulation constellation size versus CNR 7 PROBABILITY OF ERROR In AWGN the probability of bit error depends on the received SNR or equivalently on y In a fading environment the received signal power varies randomly over distance or time Thus in fading y is a random variable with distribution py y and therefore BER y  is also random The performance metric when y is random depends on the rate of change of the fading The main performance criteria that can be used to characterize the random variable BER is the average error probability Pe averaged over the distribution of y The average probability of bit error applies when the signal fading is on the order of a symbol time so that the signal fade level is constant over roughly one symbol time Since many error correction coding techniques can recover from a few bit errors and end-to-end performance is typically not seriously degraded by a few simultaneous bit errors the average error probability is a reasonably good figure of merit for the channel quality under these conditions 5-7 Figure 3 BER for M-QAM in Rayleigh Fading and AWGN channel Figure 4 shows the average BER for Rayleigh fading channel using ADR-MQAM technique We observe that the average BER is below the 10-6 target BER Because ADRMQAM often uses the high constellation sizes at high average y the closed-form approximate average BER for ADR-MQAM tightly upper bound the exact average for y OdB 4 00 P  JBEPp,\(Y 


Figure 4 Average BER versus average C MQAM Rayleigh fading channel 6 CONCLUSIONS We have studied a LEO satellite performance evaluation in a fading environment by adopting an adaptive discrete rate M-QAM strategy over a Rayleigh fading channel assuming perfect channel estimation and negligible time delay This technique adapts to the channel variation by changing the constellation size and power at ground station transmitter We show that using 10 fade regions the average BER approach 10-6 target BER when the average CNR is more than 10dB and the ADR-MQAM has more than 20 dB of power gain over no adaptive modulation 5 A.J Goldsmith and S.G Chua Adaptive Coded Modulation for Fading Channels IEEE transaction on communication Vol.46 NO 05 May 1998 6 S Vishwanath and A J Goldsmith Adaptive TurboCoded Modulation for Flat Fading Channels IEEE transaction on communication Vol.51 NO 06 June 2003 7 H Shin and J H Lee  On the Error Probability of Binary and M-ary Signals in Nakagami-m Fading Channels IEEE Transactions on Communications Vol 52 NO 4 April 2004 BIOGRAPHY L Hadj Abderrahmane is a researcher at the National Center of Spaces Techniques Currently he works on RF systems and channel coding especially the design of satellite communication systems He is an RF team leader at the Space Instrumentation Division and an Assistant Professor teaching telecommunication to Master's degree students REFERENCES 1 R Diersing and J W Ward Packet radio in the amateur satellite service IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications vol 7 pp 226-233 Feb 1989 2 M N Allery H E Price J W Ward and R A Da Silva Curiel Low Earth orbit microsatellites for data communications using small terminals presented at the ICDSC-10 Brighton UK 1995 3 C Berrou A Glavieux and P Thitimajshima Near Shannon limit error-correcting coding and decoding Turbo-codes in Proc IEEE ICC'93 pp 1064-1070 May 1993 4 L Hanzo W.T.Webb and T.Keller Single-and Multicarrier Quadrature Amplitude Modulation Chichester England John Wiley  Sons 2000 5 


 Figure 3 Intended and Unintended Interactions    Internet commerce  This link was not previously intended but was made possible by a very strong and personal support from Bernard Krisher the director of the AAC/JRC. The system enables villagers from the province of Preah Vihea to sell their silk handicraft to the world via the Internet. Main customers are from the U.S.A and Japan. The villageleap.com checkout page is cable of processing credit card transaction in English or Japanese. The system is connected to the transaction processing system of the business of a Japanese entrepreneur whom Mr. Krisher knows personally  Telemedicine  The one-staff clinic in the Village O Siengle of Ratanakiri province used the system to diagnose patience having mild health problem with the help of the doctors in the provincial hospital. For patience with serious illness the staff arranges the transportation to the provincial hospital where more advanced test and diagnostics are performed. For hard-to-diagnose diseases the doctors in the provincial hospital can send photographs of patients, X-rays, ultrasounds, and electrocardiograms to specialists in Boston at Partners Telemedicine. Doctors from Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School then review the files and send diagnoses, all pro bono [2   E-government  Although it was not intended, a crude form of egovernment was taking shape with the introduction of the system in O Siengle village. In one meeting of the villagers, they were debating how to send their first email message to the governor I think we should send a message to the governor asking for land titles a village v i l l ag e c h ief  w a s reported u s i n g e mail to send his report to his superior in the provincial government according a local press  5. Discussion  5.1. Key findings  From available data we determined five motivations of users to use the system; 1\ system was used as avowed identity statement, 2\ystems usage is a mean to achieve a greater end, 3\ystem usage to maintain personal ties with friends and colleagues, 4 systems usage was limited by power and influence, and 5\ystem usage is enable by the psychological commitment and ownership of non users and users Unintended social and economical effects of community wireless system were; 1\e increase in interactions among actors, 2\ Internet commerce, 3 telemedicine, and 4\government. However, it is to note that all those unintended effects might not have been realized without a strong champion. A great deal of efforts from champion of the system like Mr Krisher and MIT Media Lab were the drivers behind all those effects The pilot study is an exploratory effort to better understand the Internet usage motivations and unintended effects that come alone with the Internet technology. Theoretical contribution of this paper is that Lamb and Kling  r a m e w ork i s adopt ed i n a  non-organization setting. We found that their framework is an appropriate approach to observe actors interaction, environment, and affiliations Under this framework we identify the usage motivations that are richer than those posited in the cognitive theory of adoption which is often found to be significant drivers of system usage in organizational settings For practice, the results of this study shed light on the actor s roles \(students, teachers, government officers\ in the wireless Internet system. The motivations identified in our study suggested that users in rural Cambodia are driven by very different needs from those users in developing and developed countries where Internet infrastructure is mostly well established. Fulfilling these needs will contribute to a successful implementation of a new Internet projects in other rural areas and ultimately help close the digital divide. Identifying the unintended effects contributes to the future success of system implementation as well We figure out the use of the Internet as tools for more interaction, e-commerce, telemedicine, and egovernment. For best interest of users, government and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


NGOs may allocate more resources in these aspects so that users can be benefited fully by the power of the Internet technology  5.2. Limitations  We must clarify the limitation of the site that we selected. Since it was a new site \(only seven months of introduction to the Internet\he students and all public school teachers didn t know how to use e-mail and the Internet yet. That was probably one reason of limited interactions among actors. Another reason is the existence of alternative technology \(e.g. cell phone communication network, and radio communication The site is on the major highway linking the province of Koh Kong to the capital city. More interaction among users might be found in a site without alternative forms of communication to the outside world  5.3. Future study  Encouraging by the results of the pilot study, we propose to conduct another study in the province of Ratanakiri during the summer of 2009. We will use a case study method by employing both face-to-face in depth interview and phone interview as means of data collection. We will also examine some forms and written correspondence between the ac T h e participants of the study will be the villagers, students teachers, government officers, community leaders telemedicine clinic staffs, and the champion\(s\ the Internet Village Motoman Project We narrow the scope to the northeastern province of Cambodia named Rattanakiri. The is composed of fifteen solar-powered village schools, a telemedicine clinics, and the governor s office in Ban Lung , the provincial capital city of Ratanakiri, five Honda motorcycles equipped with mobile access points and a satellite uplink. Each of the schools can send and receive email and browse the Internet using a non-realtime search engine. We limit the case to one Internet access point in Ban Lung, three schools, one telemedicine clinic and the orphanage center AAC/JRC\in the capital city who supplies the English and computer teachers to the schools We expect to fully understand the usage motivations of ICT of students, villagers, teachers and clinic staff in this rural setting. We also expect a better understanding of the unintended benefits of the use of Wireless Internet system because, in Ratanakiri the projects is more complete in the sense that not only students and teachers use the systems but community leaders, staffs in the telemedicine clinic and entrepreneurs also use the systems. Furthermore, they have limited means of communication; the only alternative mean of communication to outside world is through radio. By conducting research in a different site, the limitation of this currently study will be managed. Since the province of Koh Kong has started the Internet project for less than one year and users have multiple ways to communicate with each other the interaction among the users cannot be observed We hope that the limitation can be fully managed in the future study in Ratnakiri  6. Conclusion This study explores the wireless Internet project known as Internet Village Motoman Project that was initiated by a Non Governmental Organization \(NGO with the support of the fund from private donors and the matched fund from Asian Development Bank and the World Bank. We investigate usage motivations and unintended effects of the wireless Internet system in Koh Kong province. Data was collected by using  indepth semi-structured interviews with one representative from AAC/JRC, three students, one computer and English teacher, one school principal one Motoman and a student s parents. Some secondary data from the Internet Village Motoman Project case in Preah Vihea province \(Roveang\ and in Ratanakiri \(O Siengle\were also used to enrich the case. We found five usage motivations related to Internet use: avowed identity, a mean to an end, maintaining personal ties power influence, and psychological commitment and ownership. Unintended effects emerged from the Internet system use are the increase in interactions among actors, Internet commerce, telemedicine, and egovernment. A future study will be conducted to have more understanding in other rural Cambodia areas to attest our current theoretical findings and hopefully to contribute our findings to practice   7. References  1  I. Benbasat, D. K. Goldstein, et al The case research strategy in studies of information systems In M. D. Myers and D. Avison. \(Eds.\litative Research in Information Systems, Sage, London, Thousand Oaks, New Delhi, 2002 pp. 79-99  2  J. Brooke E-mail on wheel: Rural Cambodia, though far off the grid, is finding its way online New York Times January 26, 2004    3  Davis, F. D Perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, and user acceptance of information technology MIS Quarterly, \(13:3\1989, pp. 319-339  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


4  DiMaggio, P. J. and Powell, W. W. Introduction, in The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, Powell, W W. and DiMaggio, P. J. \(eds.\niversity of Chicago Press Chicago 1991  5  Giddens, A., The Constitution of Society, Polity Press Cambridge, England, 1984  6  Goffman, E. Frame Analysis, Harvard University Press Cambridge, MA. 1974  7  Haythornthwaite, C Strong, Weak, and Latent Ties and the Impact of New Media The Information Society 2002, 18, pp. 385-401  8  Kiesler, S, "The Hidden Messages in Computer Networks," Harvard Business Review \(64:1\ JanuaryFebruary 1986, pp. 46-60  9  Lamb, R. and Kling, R Reconceptualization Users as Social Actors in Information Systems Research MIS Quarterly, \(27:2\2003, pp. 197-235  10  Markus, M. L Power, Politics, and MIS Implementation Communication of the ACM, \(26:6\1983 pp. 430-444    11  Nicholas P. Negroponte, The Hundred Dollar LaptopComputing for Developing Nations, in MIT World, available at: http://mitworld.mit.edu/slashdot.html  12  R.K. Merton The Unanticipated Consequences of Purposive Social Action American Sociological Review 1:6\ Dec. 1936, pp. 894-904  13  A.P. Pabico Technology-CAMBODIA: Ingenious Efforts Widen Road to Information 2004. South-east Asian Press Alliance  14  Pentland, A. and R. Fletcher DakNet: Rethinking Connectivity in Developing Nations Computer \(37:1 2004, pp. 78-83  15  J.L. Pierce, T. Kostova, and K.T. Dirks Toward a theory of psychological ownership in organizations  Academy of Management Review, \(26:2\2001, pp. 298-310    16  Rogers, E. M. Diffusion of innovations \(5th ed.\ew York: Free Press, 2003  17  Scott, W. R., Organizations: Rational, Natural, and Open Systems, Second Edition, Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1987  18  Scott, W. R. Institutions and Organizations, Sage Publication, Thousand Oaks, CA  1995  19  T. F. Stafford, M. R. Stafford, and L .L. Schkade Determining uses and gratifications for the Internet  Decision Sciences, \(35:2\ 2004, pp. 259-288  20  Yin, R. Case Study Research, 2nd edition, Sage Publications, Newbury Park, 1994    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


12  E. Kalnay Atmospheric Modeling, Data Assimilation and Predictability Cambridge University Press Cambridge, 136-204, 2003  13  R. Daley Atmospheric Data Assimilation Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 457 pp., 1991  14  J.E. Hoke, and R.A. Anthes, \223The Initialization of Numerical Models by a Dynamic Initialization Technique,\224 Mon. Wea. Rev  104 1551-1556, 1976  15  D.R. Stauffer, and N.L. Seaman, \223Multiscale FourDimensional Data Assimilation,\224 J. Appl. Meteor  33  416-434, 1993  9  16  P. Robins, Rapley, V., Thomas, P., \223A Probabilistic Chemical Sensor Model for Data Fusion,\224 Dstl Salisbury, UK, 2005  17  K.J. Long Improving Contaminant Source Characterization and Meteorological Data Forcing with a Genetic Algorithm M.S. Thesis, Dept. of Meteorology, The Pennsylvania State University, 55 pp 2007    C.E. Shannon, \223A m a t h em at i cal t h eory of communication,\224 Bell System Technical Journal  27  379-423 and 623-656, 1948  B IOGRAPHIES  Sue Ellen Haupt is Head of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics at the Applied Research Laboratory of The Pennsylvania State University and Associate Professor of Meteorology. She received her Ph.D. in Atmospheric Science from the University of Michigan, M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Worcester Polytechnic Institute and B.S. in Meteorology from Penn State. In addition to PSU, she has been at New England Electric System, the National Center for Atmospheric Research, University of Colorado/Boulder University of Nevada, Reno, and Utah State University. Dr Haupt co-chaired the IEEE Ae rospace Conference Junior Conference for six years George S. Young is Professor of Meteorology at The Pennsylvania State University specializing in artificial intelligence applications to weather prediction and observational studies atmospheric flow structures.  He has served on the faculty of the Pennsylvania State University since receiving his Ph.D. in Atmospheric Sciences from Colorado State University in 1986.  He also holds B.S and M.S. degrees in Meteorology from Florida State University.  He has published 1 book, 3 book chapters 74 journal papers and 99 conference papers as well as advised 33 graduate students.  He chaired the National Science Foundation / University Corporation for Atmospheric Research observing Facilities Advisory Panel in 2000 and has been a member of the American Meteorological Society's committees on Mountain Meteorology \(1992-1995\ and Boundary Layers and Turbulence \(1999-2002 Kerrie J. Long is a Research Assistant in the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics of the Applied Research Laboratory at Penn State. She has worked on atmospheric dispersion problems particularly source characterization using artificial intelligence techniques. She earned a B.S. in Physics from the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth and M.S. in Meteorology from Penn State Anke Beyer-Lout is a graduate student in the Department of Meteorology at the Pennsylvania State University. She graduated with a Bachelors of Science degree in Meteorology from the University of Hamburg in Germany in August 2005 and came to Penn State in January 2006. Anke is currently working with George S Young and Sue Ellen Haupt on a project concerning data assimilation and dispersion modeling. She expects to graduate with a M.S. in Meteorology in December 2007  Andrew Annunzio is a meteorology graduate student at the Pennsylvania State University.  He graduated from the Ohio State University in 2006 with honors and distinction in Geography and minored in Mathematics.  Andrew began studies at Penn State in Fall 2006, and is now in pursuit of his masters under Sue Ellen Haupt and George Young.  After obtaining the M.S. in May 2008, he wishes to pursue a Ph.D. in Meteorology with a minor in Mathematics 


13 P Embrechts C Kluppelberg and T Mikosch Modelling Extremal Events Springer-Verlag Berlin 1997 14 L Tarassenko P.R Bannister and D A Clifton Novelty Detection in K Worden ed Encylopaedia of Structural Health Monitoring Wiley 2008 15 D.A Clifton Density Estimation for Novelty Detection in Jet Engine Vibration Data Technical Report Oxford BioSignals Ltd UK 2006 16 R.L Smith Extreme Value Analysis of Environmental Time Series Statistical Science 4\(4 pp.367-377 1989 17 S.J Roberts Novelty Detection Using Extreme Value Statistics IEE Proceedings 146\(3 1999 18 S.J Roberts Extreme Value Statistics for Novelty Detection in BiomedicaDataprocessing IEE Proceedings on Science Measurement and Technology 147\(6 2000 19 A R Webb Statistical Pattern Recognition Wiley 2002 20 S.G Coles and E A Powell Bayesian Methods in Extreme Value Modelling A Review and New Developments International Statistical Review  Revue Intemationale de Statistique Vol 64 No 1 pp 119-136 1996 21 D.A Clifton P.R Bannister and L Tarassenko A Framework for Novelty Detection in Jet Engine Vibration Data in L Garibaldi S Surace K Holford eds Key Engineering Materials 347:305-312 2007 22 D.A Clifton B Haskins P.R Bannister and L Tarassenko Specific and Generic Models for GasTurbine Novelty Detection Proc of 4th IET Int Conf on Condition Monitoring Harrogate UK 2007 23 S.W Utete D.A Clifton and L Tarassenko Trending Performance Parameters for Aircraft Condition Monitoring Proc of 4th IET Int Conf on Condition Monitoring Harrogate UK 2007 BIOGRAPHY David A Clifton is a DPhil candidate in Engineering Science at Oxford University and Senior Engineer at university spin-out company Oxford BioSignals Ltd His research interests include statistical pattern recognition for health monitoring of biomedical and industrial systems for which he has been the awarded many of the UK's leading student engineering awards including those from the IEE the Institute of Physics the Royal Academy of Engineering the European Commission Hewlett-Packard Europe Shell UK and the UK Engineering Council His current research part-funded by the UK Department of Trade and Industry involves devising novelty detection systems for modern civil and military aircraft engines including the Eurofighter EJ200 the Airbus A380 Trent 900 and the Boeing Dreamliner Trent 1000 Nick McGrogan is Technical Manager for the Industrial division of Oxford BioSignals Ltd He holds an M.Sc degree in Engineering and Computing Science and a D.Phil degree in Engineering Science both from Oxford University He is also a member of the Institution of e ngineering and Technology JET His D.Phil research was in the area of advanced signal processing for the detection of epileptic seizures in long-term recordings of brain activity While completing his D.Phil degree he joined Oxford BioSignals when the company was founded to progress the development of medical signal processing products and progressed to leading the industrial division in the development of techniques for health monitoring of aircraft engines In his current role he is responsible for Oxford BioSignal's technology strategy and manages the company's research projects Lionel Tarassenko Lionel Tarassenko was born in Paris France in 1957 He received the B.A degree in engineering science in 19 78 and the Ph D degree in medical engineering in 1985 both from Oxford University Oxford U.K After graduating he worked for Racal Research Ltd on the development of digital signal processing techniques principally for speech coding He then held a number of positions in academia and industry before taking up a University Lecturership at Oxford in 1988 Since then he has devoted most of his research effort to the development of neural network techniques and their application to signal processing diagnostic systems andparallel architectures He has held the Chair in Electrical Engineering at Oxford University since October 1997 He was elected to a Fellowship of the Institution of Electrical Engineers IEE in 1996 when he was also awarded the IEE Mather Premium for his work on neural networks and to a Fellowship of the Royal Academy of Engineering RAE in 2000 10 


Dennis M King is the RollsRoyce PLC Company specialist in Engine Health Monitoring specialising in the vibration aspects of EHM He was awarded an MSc in Engineering Mechanics in 1976 by the Cranfield Institute of Technology UK and Chartered Engineer in 1988 RAeS After graduating he joined RollsRoyce in Derby working in Stress analysis and design before moving to the vibration laboratories and taking on the role of consulting on the design build and balance of aero engines Over the last twenty years he has been actively involved in developing EHM technology including Hardware software fault recognition and diagnostics He has the experience of applying this technology globally within the R-R business He has been awarded the R-R Component Engineering Quality award 1997 R-R Chairman's team awardfor technical innovation 2001 a member of the Institute for Engineering Technology IET Having worked in Rolls-Royce since 1979 he has built up many years experience working in advanced signal processing methods Data Mining Neural Networks and equipment health monitoring Steve's current post is within the Company's Global EHM Capability Group Prior to this he spent 12 years working in the Company's Corporate Strategic Research Centre with responsibility for the development and application of Computational Intelligence techniques across all business areas of Rolls-Royce He was awarded the Rolls-Royce Chairman's awardfor Technical Innovation in 2001 and is named on three patents He is also a member of the International Scientific Committee of the International Conference for Condition Monitoring Paul Anuzis has spent five years of his working career at Rolls-Royce in Germany helping to establish a new and highly sucessful RollsRoyce business unit in Germany based initially in Munich now established in Dahlewitz on the outskirts of Berlin Paul returned in late 1997 to take up his current position of Chief Reliability Engineer for Rolls-Royce Civil Aerospace Airlines He holds a degree in Physics and second degree in Electronics is a Chartered Physicists Chartered Scientist Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of the Institute of Physics and has twice won the Rolls-Royce Chairman's awardfor Technical Innovation He has extensive applied research experience from several years of runing DTI technology programs The most sucessful programs spanning eight years working with the Universities of Oxford Nottingham and Cranfield on engine health monitoring technologies which are about to enter service with the latest Trent 900/A380 application Steve P.King is a Specialist for advanced Engine H ealth Monitoring Method at Rolls-Royce plc He holds a degree in Mathematics and Computer Science and a PhD in the use of Expert Systems fo r Vibration Analysis He is a Chartered Engineer and 11 


  12  Figure 1:  Lunar South Pole Elevation Map from GSSR 2006 Digital Elevation Model  Figure 2:  Lunar North Pole Elevation Ma p from GSSR 1997 Digital Elevation Model 


  13  Figure 3:  Shackleton Crater T opographic Map, with Base Sites  Figure 4: Solar Lines-of-Si ght at Lunar South Pole 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


