Application of Data Mining in Customer Relationship Management  Kun Wu School of management Tianjin Polytechnic University Tianjin, China marmalade2010@126.com Feng-ying Liu School of management Tianjin Polytechnic University Tianjin, China fengyingliu_tj@hotmail.com   Abstract 227With economic globalization and the rapid development of e-commerce, customer relationship management CRM\as become the core of growth of the company. Data mining, as a powerful data analysis tool, extracts critical 
information supporting the company to make better decisions by processing a large number of data in commercial databases. This paper introduced the basic concepts of data mining and CRM and described the process how to use data mining for CRM. At last, the paper described the applications of several main data mining methods in CRM, such as clustering, classification and association rule Keywords-data mining; customer relationship management clustering; classification; association rule I  I NTRODUCTION  Recently, with the development of computer technology 
and IT \(Information Technology\an-beings are entering into the information era, in which we are in dire need of some new tools and technologies to deal with such \223mass\224 data picking up useful information automatically from these data to solve the \223data plenty, useful spare\224 problem \223information explosion\224 takes to us. Therefore, how to dig up the valuable information in the data sea and apply this information into the practical work becomes the problem needs to be solved urgently, which leads to the emersion of data mining technology. Meanwhile, the economic globalization and rapid development of electronic commerce is changing the original 
competition rules between the enterprises with an unprecedented scope and depth. More and more enterprises start to focus on a new marketing management theory\227customer relationship management \(CRM\, which places the retaining and upgrading of customer value as the core of enterprise organic developmen a m a s s  of  business data and customer information, how to pick up useful information and maximize customer value becomes the key customer relationship management problem needs to be solved urgently for modern enterprises. Data Mining is just the very tool suitable to solve this problem II  D 
ATA M INING  Data mining, which is also called KDD \(Knowledge Discovery in Database\s the process of abstracting unaware potential and useful information and knowledge from plentiful, incomplete, noisy, fuzzy and stochastic actual data  p l y s p eak i n g  it is a proces s to pick u p th e i n f o r m ati on and knowledge which can not be discovered directly but with potential value from a mass of data. Data Mining is an interdisciplinary with extensive knowledge scope, which mainly involved into three areas: database, artificial intelligence and probability and mathematical statistics. For the detailed application, the data mining has powerful data 
analysis and process capability, which can discover knowledge as useful rules, regulations, relationship and modes from a mass of data, by means of concept description, clustering analysis, classification and forecast, similar pattern analysis abnormal pattern analysis, association analysis, time sequence analysis and regression analysis, etc As a new interdisciplinary, data mining has an extensive application prospect. Recently with the network popularization and increasing mature of e-commerce  tremendous amounts of historical data and real-time data as well as widely application requirement in the business area provide a wide space for the application and development of data mining. The combination of data mining and existing information system together with 
the artificial intelligence provides important tools and theories for the analysis and process of business and financial data. As the new business information process technology, data mining is an advanced data analysis method, whose main characteristic is to clean, select, transform and analyze the huge number of business data in the commercial data base and modeling process, at last extract the key data which can assist the commercial decision  Data mining theory and tool have already been adopted in every walk of life, and developed pretty good in some areas as engineering development, scientific research and commercial management in mobile, bank, telecom, insurance, retail, etc. It can solve all the following problems in financial and 
commercial areas: credit class evaluation; financial and economic forecast; security price fluctuation forecast bankruptcy and bank liquidation forecast; malignant overdraft and commercial fraud discrimination; selection and classification of security and investment; commercial action analysis and sale and customer relation analysis. With the updating of management theory, CRM is becoming the focus of enterprises, and the main content of this thesis is just research on the application of data mining in customer relationship management 978-1-4244-5326-9/10/$26.00 \2512010 IEEE 


III  C USTOMER R ELATIONSHIP M ANAGEMENT  Customer relationship management is a new management mechanism focuses on the improving of relationship between enterprises and customers, and also a strategy to develop new customers and maintain customer loyalty. It means that on the basis of continuous accumulating, analyzing and making use of the complete customer information, the enterprises distribute the enterprise resources reasonably in customer-oriented work mode and by system to provide support and standard management to meet customer needs in all aspects, which can result in the improvement of customer satisfaction and loyalty and make the greatest profit for the enterprises [3 h e f i n a l tas k  o f C R M is to p r o v id e a b a sis fo r  the enterprises business management and decision-making by active market research and analysis and process of customer information With the rapid development of Internet and continuously deepening of enterprises information, the data amount enterprises need to deal with becomes more and more Therefore, to maximize the use of information resources to manage and influence the enterprise decision-making process becomes the key determinant whether or not an enterprise can maximize its competition advantage In fact, the customer relationship management is developed on the basis of early database marketing. In the early database marketing stage, the enterprises realized that plenty of customer information in hand will take them great profit. So the enterprises established large-scale customer information databases in their continuous customer information gathering process. At the same time, they also wanted to improve the customer loyalty to their enterprises by marketing activities as consumption points and price sales promotion, but the result of such activities are not satisfying. Therefore, the successful marketers have already realized that the key of marketing is to guide the customers’ activities in long term, enhance the relationship between enterprises and customers, establish and efficiently manage the relationship between customers and enterprises. This is a marketing method, but exceeds the scope of marketing, it is to establish a bilateral relationship between customers and enterprises, and realize the bilateral relationship both in customer interest and enterprise profit to maximize the value of customers and enterprises [4   IV  D ATA M INING IS THE C ORE T ECHNOLOGY OF CRM The objective of modern enterprises CRM is to analyze the huge number of customer information by database establishing, application of data mining, business intelligence and other technology methods to convert the valuable customer information into customer knowledge. Data mining is the core technology in customer relationship management A   Customer Relationship Management Process At first, we preprocess the customer basic information data sales promotion activity data and daily sales data. Secondly we clean these data to remove noise and inconsistent data. Then we integrate the data, select the data relevant to the analysis task and transform data into forms appropriate for data mining Since the data are prepared, they need to be analyzed. On this basis, select appropriate data mining methods and tools according to the commercial problem needs to be solved and data need to be analyzed, establish model, process and analyze these data and finally get the information which can assist decision-making. The detailed process is shown in Fig. 1 B   Applications of Data Mining in CRM At present, data mining mainly has the following applications in the customer relationship management system 1  Customer Classification Analysis  Customer classification is also called customer subdivision, which is to divide the customer by customer gender, occupation, age, or customer consumption habit and purchase habit. The data mining technology can divide the huge number of customers into different groups, according to which the customer-oriented products and services are provided. The most common methods are classification and clustering 2  Customer Gaining Analysis The development of enterprise need new customer enlisted. By the use of data mining technology, the enterprises can identify the potential customers by analyzing the characteristics of customers in hand and their purchase activities to make more targeted sales plan. The common methods are classification forecast and association analysis 3  Customer Losing and Maintaining Analysis Enterprises development needs to continuously acquire new customers, but old customers maintaining is even more important. Many research results indicate that the cost to win a new customer is several times more than the cost to maintain an old customer, so the old customer maintaining must be taken into consideration if an enterprise want to achieve stable development. The data mining technology can help to analyze the customer lost characteristics, establish corresponding model, and find out the potential customer may be lost by this model. After aware of which customers may be lost, the enterprise can adopt corresponding measures to maintain the customers and improve their satisfaction 4  Customer Profit-making Ability Analysis and Forecast There is a classic two-eight law in customer relationship management, that is, eighty percent of the customers will bring in twenty percent of the enterprise profit, while the other twenty percent of customers will accomplish the left eighty percent. The customers in this twenty percent bring much more profit for the enterprise, so they are the customers enterprises should care most. By analyzing customer information and deal data, we can find out these customers in the twenty and provide special service for them to improve customer loyalty and try to dig out the potential “golden customers” by making use of the twenty customer model     


 Figure 1  Process of customer relationship management  5  Cross Selling Analysis The relationship between modern enterprises and customers is always changing. In order to improve the enterprise loyalty of customers, the enterprises need cross selling on existing customers, which is, providing new products or services for customers by analyzing the customer characteristics and the purchased products or services characteristics. In data mining, the cross selling analysis is always proceeded by the use of association rule 6  Customer Satisfaction Analysis The analyzing of customer satisfaction on enterprises products and services can help the enterprises to improve customer marketing strategy, thereby increase customer loyalty. Data mining can analyze customer satisfaction from scattered customer feedback information 7  Customer Credit Analysis   Data mining can analyze detailed customer credit class from huge number of historical data, according to which the enterprises can adopt different account sale strategies for customers with different credit class V  K EY TECHNOLOGIS OF D ATA M INING A PPLIED IN CRM A  Clustering Clustering is just as the normal saying that “things of one kind come together”, that is, to classify a group of individuals into several groups. Its aim is to make the distance between the individuals of the same group as short as possible, and the distance between the individuals of different groups as far as possi C l u s teri n g anal y s i s can f i n d ou t th e data distribution mode and proper inter relationship between data properties from the macroscopical view, search for the useful relation between the object data in certain data set and divide the records in database into a series of meaningful subclass The clustering methods can be divided into the following types by different dividing methods: based on division, as K-Means, K-Medoids; based on level, as BIRCH, CURE based on density, as DBSCAN, OPTICS  To make it simple, clustering is a division on customer group – to classify the similar customers and divide the dissimilar customers into different groups. By clustering analysis on customers of different backgrounds and their various spending habits, spending activities and spending psychology, the enterprises can find customer groups of different characteristics, and can describe the customer groups of different characteristics by purchase modes, which can help enterprises to make more efficient marketing strategy, select marketing channels and create different advertising campaigns in order to realize the aim of improving relationship between enterprises and customers, forecasting the future trend and activities and supporting enterprises decision-making. The clustering analysis is mainly used in customer classification analysis and is the basis of efficient sale, marketing and serv h u s can be s e e n t h at cl u s teri n g a n al y s i s i s t h e premise of customer profit-making ability analysis and forecast. The efficient marketing plan can only be developed on the basis of exact customer classification, and get twice the result with half the effort, to realize the aim of maximize customer value and get more return B  Classification and Forecast Different from clustering analysis, classification analysis means study under instruction, and classifies the unknown data into some known, pre-defined category according to the concepts of different categories and uses this description to construct category model \(normally indicated by regulation or decision-making tree mode\he category description and classification model can be acquired by making use of exercise dataset through certain algorithm. Classification can also be called attribute forecast, that is, classify the data into the most proper category. Main algorithms are decision-making tree, Bayesian statistics, BP neural networks Genetic Algorithm, rough set theory, fuzzy set theory and so on This method is widely used in customer classification by analyzing the data in sample customer database and making exact description for each category to establish different customer models. The future new customers can also be classified in the existing categories for the enterprise to affirm the customers’ hobbies, consumption habits, consumption inclinations, consumption requirements and so on, make the fitted” marketing program for the customer, establish one-to-one customer service system and perform diversified customer management. For example, in the network insurance sale, with the data mining technology, we can use the self-study function of neural network to classify customers to find the most suitable insurance type for the customer. As soon as the customer inputs his information, the most suitable insurance for him will pop up [8 l as s i f i cat i o n  m e t h od can  also forecast the consumption activities of new customers and establish forecast model, analyze the customers with similar activities in different conditions and filter the future potential customers. By making use of classification method, the enterprises can classify these potential customers in the 


existing categories, if these customers can not bring profit or make deficit, they will be abandoned; if these customers can bring profit to the enterprise, then the enterprise needs to combine the resources and services these customer interested and provide positive and individual service, converting the potential customer into former customer. The application of classification is shown in Fig. 2 C  Association Rules The association rule mining is first put forward by Rakesh Apwal, etc. If the values of two or more than two variables e.g. different character fields in database\ave certain rule, it is called association. Data association is a kind of important and available knowledge in the database, while association analysis is to find out item or pattern which turns up with high frequency in certain data sets, just as knowledge of “70% of customer buys commodity B together with commodity A in one shopping”. Mining interesting association relations from plenty of commercial records can assist the decision-making The most classic application of association rule used in data mining area is shopping basket analysis, and the most famous shopping basket practice is the “diaper and beer” story of Wal-Mart The association analysis is a powerful tool to realize cross selling. Cross selling is a marketing strategy to sell a new product or service to the customer who already used the products of the same enterprise. To introduce a new product or service to a new customer and an old customer, the old customer is more likely to accept it and the success rate is higher. Therefore, cross selling is a marketing method based on enterprise and customer win-win mode. Meanwhile, cross selling is also a marketing method which can improve customer value, for the more the relations between the enterprise and the customer, the more dependent the customer will be on the enterprise, and the higher the loyalty will be. By use of association method, banks analyze the association relations between the deal activities and other properties \(as customer age, gender, education, occupation, etc\d can get the result which bank services or financial products the customer will be interested in, which financing products and services is likely to be chosen in one deal, and then apply efficient cross selling and improve the bank customer value 9 ss sellin g is a n e f ficie n t m a rk eti n g  m e t h o d   w h ic h c a n  help to retain old customers and improve customer loyalty     Figure 2  Application of classification VI  C ONCLUSIONS  In modern society, customer becomes the most important asset of enterprise. Efficient customer relationship management is the necessary method to improve enterprise competition advantage. At present, the local researches on CRM mainly focus on CRM system structure research, CRM value evaluation and calculation, CRM management modes and application of data mining and mathematical statistics methods in CRM and other aspect Wh i l e t h e dat a  m i n i n g  application research in CRM has become the common focus of academia and business circles. By use of data mining technology, rules and patterns can be extract from a mass of data, but how to explain and apply these rules and patterns is the key point enterprises care about and also the determinant factor to assist the enterprise decision-making R EFERENCES  1  Yu-feng Jia and Ying-xin Hu,"Research on Application of Data Mining in Customer Relationship Management", Journal of Shijiazhuang Railway Institute\(Social Science\, Vol.3, Jun.2009, pp. 31-34 2  Xian-peng Li, “The Research of Data Mining in Mobile Communication Enterprise Based on Decision Tree”, Hunan: Hunan University, 2008 pp. 2-3 3  Bin Cao and Yue-xin Wu,"Data Mining Technology Application in the Customer Relationship Management System", http://www.paper.edu.cn 2008 4  Gang Ma, Hong-xin Li and Xing-kai Yang,"Customer Relationship Management", Dalian: Dongbei University of Finance & Economics Press, Jan.2007 5  Dong-mei Ren,"Applied Research of Data Mining in Customer Relationship Management", Anhui: Anhui University of Science Technology, 2008, pp. 24-25 6  Bin Li and Jian-yi Guo,"Investigation and application of clustering in customer relationship management", Computer Engineering and Design Vol.26, Feb.2005, pp. 540-542 7  Yuan-rong Tan and Jian-ping Sun,"The Practice of Clustering in CRM and Discussion on Characteristic Distill", Technology Economics Vol.26, May.2007, pp. 51-56 8  Yan-juan Zheng and Ai-hua Wen,"Data Mining Application in Insurance Customer Relationship Management", China Business & Trade Aug.2009, pp.62-63 9  Xiao-li Yin and Xu-sheng Fang,"Data Mining Technology Application in Bank CRM", Economic Research Guide, 2009, pp. 112-113   Zhe zhang,"Data Mining and Its Application in Customer Relationship Management", Shanghai: Fudan University Press, Aug.2007   


T ABLE II N EW P REDICTED HIV-1\226 HUMAN PROTEIN INTERACTIONS Pr edicted Interactions Con\002dence of Prediction  re v  ACTG1 tat  ACTG1 gag p6  PRKCA  vif  PRKCA  75 gag capsid  MAPK1 gag capsid  PRKCA vpr  PRKCA en v gp120  A CTB  env gp160  A CTB gag matrix  PRKCB1  rev  PRKCB1 77.8 gag matrix  PRKCQ  rev  PRKCQ env gp41  MAPK1  pol pr otease  MAPK1 vpr  MAPK3 80 nef  PRKCD  pol protease  PRKCE en v gp160  CASP3  env gp160  CD4 85.7 en v gp160  MAPK3 gag nucleocapsid  PRKCA 87.5  N Lin B Wu R Jansen M Gerstein and H Zhao 223Information assessment on predicting protein-protein interactions,\224 BMC Bioinformatics  vol 5 no 154 2004  Y  Y amanishi J P  V ert and M Kanehisa 223Protein netw ork inference from multiple genomic data A supervised approach,\224 Bioinformatics  vol 20 no Suppl 1 pp i363\226i370 2004  L Zhang S W ong O King and F  Roth 223Predicting co-comple x ed protein pairs using genomic and proteomic data integration,\224 BMC Bioinformatics  vol 5 no 38 April 2004  A Ben-Hur and W  S Noble 223K ernel methods for predicting proteinprotein interactions,\224 Bioinformatics  vol 21 no Suppl 1 pp i38\22646 2005  Y  Qi J Klein-seetharaman and Z Bar joseph 223 A mixture of feature experts approach for protein-protein interaction prediction,\224 BMC Bioinformatics  vol 8 no Suppl 10 2007  R Agra w al T  Imieli 264 nski and A Swami 223Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases,\224 in Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data SIGMOD'93  New York NY USA ACM 1993 pp 207\226216  R Agra w al and R Srikant 223F ast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases,\224 in Proc 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases  San Francisco CA USA Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc 1994 pp 487\226499  S Bandyopadh yay  U Maulik L B Holder  and D J Cook Advanced Methods for Knowledge Discovery from Complex Data Advanced Information and Knowledge Processing  Springer-Verlag London 2005  J Hipp U G 250 untzer and G Nakhaeizadeh 223Algorithms for association rule mining 226 a general survey and comparison,\224 SIGKDD Explorations  vol 2 no 1 pp 58\22664 July 2000  B Goethals 223Ef 002cient frequent pattern mining 224 Ph.D dissertation University of Limburg Belgium 2002  G I W ebb 223Ef 002cient search for association rules 224 in Proc Sixth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  The Association for Computing Machinery 2000 pp 99\226107  O T astan Y  Qi J Carbonell and J Klein-Seetharaman 223Prediction of interactions between HIV-1 and human proteins by information integration,\224 in Proceedings of the Paci\002c Symposium on Biocomputing  2009 pp 516\226527  W  Fu B E Sanders-Beer  K S Katz D R Maglott K D Pruitt and R G Ptak 223Human immunode\002ciency virus type 1 human protein interaction database at NCBI,\224 Nucleic Acids Research Database Issue  vol 37 pp D417\226D422 2009 


each of the k-candidate set is generated by intersection of the list \(of transaction ids\f all its \(k-1\ubsets. The kcandidate set along with the list is pushed into the data set C k List This is followed by pruning of all those k-candidate sets that do not have support at least equal to minimum support. Thus large k-itemsets are obtained gen_candidates_with_list \( C k-1 C k New  For all c 005 C k New do begin For all possible \(k-1\ubsets s of c do Insert { itemset,list } into C k List  where itemset = c.itemset AND list 006 000 013i 013g\013@\0135 i list s 005 C k-1  End End 5. Performance Study To confirm the time efficient approach of the algorithm, we implemented the proposed algorithm and the apriori algorithm on a 512 MB RAM Memory and 1.67 GHz Intel processor. We carried out a substantial performance evaluation and compared it with results obtained for apriori algorithm Table 3 compares performance of the proposed algorithm with the apriori algorithm for different minimum supports against different number of transactions. As minimum support decreases, the performance of the proposed algorithm increases and after a certain point, it performs better than the apriori algorithm. The relative performance also increases with increase in number of transactions. These results are also demonstrated in Figure 1. Total number of data items and average number of items per transaction are 30 and 15 respectively Table 4 compares the number of items in MEDIUM and LOW corresponding to the data values shown in Table 3 The execution time is shown to compare the increase in performance with increase in number of candidate sets in LOW Figure 2 compares the number of elements in MEDIUM and LOW against different number of initial data items for a given database and minimum support. For this experiment number of transactions in the database is 2K and minimum support is 20%.The proposed algorithm performs better with increase in the number of candidate sets present in LOW Figure 2 shows that the number of elements in MEDIUM and LOW increases with increase in number of data items Thus, the proposed algorithm performs better for large number of data items in the database 5.1 Result Analysis The performance of the proposed algorithm is directly proportional to the number of passes over the algorithm number of elements in LOW and data items in the database During initial passes, size of L k C k and 007 004 k is more than the database. Hence, initial passes are time consuming. But during the latter passes, these data sets become significantly smaller than the database. Larger minimum support generates less number of candidate sets and involves lesser passes over the algorithm. Thus, Figure 1 shows a dip in performance of the proposed algorithm for larger minimum support values. But, it performs better than the apriori algorithm as minimum support decreases  Table 3: Execution time in seconds   Table 4: Execution time v/s size of MEDIUM and LOW  6. Conclusion and future directions The proposed algorithm presents a probabilistic approach to apriori algorithm. The proposed algorithm creates exactly the same number of rules as the apriori algorithm but in lesser time. The results confirm that the discovery of association rules in larger databases is faster in the proposed algorithm than the apriori algorithm Integration of probabilistic approach to data mining in distributed databases shall produce amazing results [9 Hence, the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm needs to be checked on distributed databases. This algorithm was implemented on a synthetic database. Its application on real 
407 


world databases presents a future direction for further research  Figure 1: Execution time v/s Minimum Support  References 1 R. A g r a w a l a nd R. Srik a n t F a s t A l g o rithm s  f o r Mining  Association Rules,” In Proc. of the 20th VLDB Conference  Santiago, pp. 487-499, Chile, 1994 2 R. A g ra w a l T  Im i e linsk i, a nd A. Swami. “Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases.” In Proceedings of ACM SIGMOD pages 207-216, May 1993 3 R. A g ra wa l, R. Srik a n t M in i n g se que ntia l pa t t e r ns In proc. of the 11th International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE'95  pages 3-14, March 1995 4 M Blu m R.W  Flo y d   V   P r att, R.L  Riv e st an d R E. T a rjan  Time bounds for selection,” J. Comput. Syst. Sci. 7\(1973\, pp 448-461  Total number of data items Number of elements in MEDIUM Number of elements in LOW 10 139 0 20 3238 127 30 21899 1923 Figure 2: Size of MEDIUM and LOW v/s number of data items 5 Fe r e nc B odo n  A f a s t  A P R I O R I i m plem e n ta tion I n pr oc o f  IEEE ICDM Workshop on Frequent Itemset Mining Implementations \(FIMI'03 Melbourne, Florida, USA, 2003 6 Feren c Bo d o n   A T r i e b as ed A P RIORI Im p l e m en tatio n f o r  Mining Frequent Item Sequences.” In ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Open Source Data Mining Workshop \(OSDM’05 pages 56-65 Chicago, IL,USA, 2005  M  C h en  J Han an d  P  S   Yu  Dat a M i n i n g  A n o v ervi e w  from a Database Perspective IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 866-883, Dec. 1996 8 A r on Culotta A ndre w Mc Ca llum Jona tha n Be tz  I nte g ra tin g probabilistic extraction models a nd data mining to discover relations and patterns in text,” In Proceedings of the main conference on Human Language Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association of Computational Linguistics p.296-303, June 04-09, 2006, New York  M M S u fy an Be g P aral l e l an d Di st ri b u t ed Di sco v er y o f  Association Rules In Artifical Intelligence Application Book  Fadzilah Siraj, Eds\ersity Utara Malaysia 10 X ita o Fa n k os Fe ls v  l y i Ste phe n A  Siv o  M onte C a r l o   SAS® for Monte Carlo studies: a guide for quantitative researchers 11 U  Fa y y e d  G  P i a t e t s k y Sha p iro P. Sm y t h a nd R. U t h u ra s a my  eds.\. “Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining AAAI Press / The MIT Press, 1996 1 W  J F r aw l e y  G  P i at et sk y S h ap i r o an d C M a t h eu s   Knowledge “Discovery In Databases: An Overview. In Knowledge Discovery In Databases eds. G. Piatetsky-Shapiro, and W. J Frawley, AAAI Press/MIT Press, Cambridge, MA., 1991, pp. 1-30 13 V  K u m a r  a nd M. J o s h i T utor ia l o n H i g h P e r f or m a nc e D a t a  Mining,” In proc. of International Conference on High Performance Computing \(HiPC-98 Dec. 1998  a v i d L  O l s o n a n d D e s h e n g Wu   D eci s i on  m a k i ng  with uncertainity and data mining.” In X. Li, S. Wang and Z.Y Dong\(Eds Lecture notes in Artificial Intelligence pp. 1-9 Berlin: Springer\(2005 15  P  W r ig ht. K now le dg e D i s c ov e r y I n D a ta ba s e s  T ools a n d  Techniques ACM  Crossroads Winter 1998   
408 


 7. Reference    Fetzer C,Hagstedt, K,Felb er P  Autom atic Deteciton  and Masking of Non-Atomic Exception Handling International Conference On Dependable Systems and Networks, \(DSN2003\10-116    Y e n S J, Lee Y S. “Mining Interesting  Associatio n  R u l es  and Sequential Patterns”. International Journal of Fuzzy Systems, 2004-6 \(4   Alasf f ar A  H, Deogun J S. “Concept-b a sed Retr iev a l with Minimal Term Sets”. Foundations of Intelligent Systems: 11th Int’l Symposium, Springer, Poland, 2004 114- 122   Qiu Y ong gang,Frei H P  Concept B a sed Quer y   SIGIR’03,2003:16 0-169   Saltom G  W ong A, Y a ng C  S. “A V ector Sp ace Model for Automation Indexing”. Communications of the ACM 2005, 18\(5\-620   Agrawal R, Srikant R. “Fast Algorithm f or Mining Association Rules in Large Databases.” Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Very Large DataBases Santiago , Chile , 2004   Park J S. “Using A Hash-Based Method with Transaction Trimming forMining Association Rules.” IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2007   Savasere A, Omiecinski E Navathe S  An Ef ficient Algorithm for Mining Association Rules in Large Databases.” Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Very large Database, Switzerland, 2002  


              


   


                        





