HybridCuts: A Scheme Combining Decomposition and Cutting for Packet Classification 
 Wenjun Li \(liwenjun@sz.pku.edu.cn\eng Li \(lixianfeng@pkusz.edu.cn Engineering Lab on Intelligent Perception for Internet of Things \(ELIP Peking University, Shenzhen Graduate School, Shenzhen, China 
Packet classification is an enabling function for a variety of Internet applications such as access control, quality of service and differentiated services. Decision-tree and decomposition are the most well-known algorithmic approaches. Compared to architectural solutions, both approaches are memory and performance inefficient, falling short of the needs of high-speed networks. EffiCuts, the stateof-the-art decision-tree technique, significantly reduces 
Abstract 
memory overhead of classic cutting algorithms with separated trees and equi-dense cuts. However, it suffers from too many memory accesses and a large number of separated trees Besides, EffiCuts needs comparator circuitry to support equidense cuts, which 
makes it less practical. Decomposition based schemes, such as BV, can leverage the parallelism offered by modern hardware for memory accesses, but they have poor storage scalability. In this paper, we propose HybridCuts, a combination of decomposition and decision-tree techniques that improves storage and performance simultaneously. The decomposition part of HybridCuts has the benefits of traditional decomposition-based techniques without the trouble of aggregating results from a large number of bit 
 
vectors or a set of big lookup tables. Meanwhile, thanks to the clever partitioning of the rule set, an efficient cutting algorithm following the decomposition can build short decision trees with significant reduction on rule replications. Using ClassBench we show that HybridCuts achieves similar memory reduction compared to EffiCuts, but it outperforms EffiCuts significantly in terms of memory accesses for packet classification. In addition, HybridCuts is more practical for implementation than EffiCuts, which maintains complicated data structures and requires special hardware support for efficient cuts 
Keywords-Packet Classification; Decomposition; DecisionTree; Rule Replication; Performance 
 
 I NTRODUCTION 
I 
 Modern Internet routers provide services beyond basic packet forwarding, such as access control, quality of service and differentiated services. All such functionalities require packet classification, which decides the action to be taken on a packet based on multiple fields in the packet header. A predefined classifier consisting of a set of rules is looked up for a match for these purposes. To match a rule, packet classification needs to compare multiple header values of the incoming packet against the field values of all the rules in the classifier to determine the type of actions \(e.g., drop or permit\o be taken on the packet Numerous packet classification techniques have been proposed in the past fifteen years [1  T h ey can  be  
categorized broadly into two major approaches: architectural and algorithmic. Ternary Content Addressable Memories TCAMs\ based techniques are the representative architectural approaches [2-6 TC A M s ar e  w i dely  u s e d  because of their ability to process packets at line speed. But TCAMs are expensive, and suffer from scalability and high power consumption [7 T o ad dre ss t h e hi gh po w e r consumption problem, recent TCAM related research efforts try to make tradeoffs between power consumption and lookup performance with multiple accesses to a set of TCAM subarrays, such as the TreeCAM 8  A n oth er  is s u e  with TCAMs is the rule duplication problem related to the port number fields when transforming a single range into an 
equivalent set of multiple prefixes for the convenience of TCAM operations [9  A s a resu l t ef f i cien t alg or ith m i c solutions using ordinary memories such as DRAM/SRAM are still under active investigation Decision-tree and decomposition are the most wellknown algorithmic approaches. Decision-tree based schemes, such as HiCuts [1 n d H y p e r C uts  11  s e p a r a t e  the search space into many equal-sized sub-spaces using local optimizations. But both schemes have the same rule replication problem, which might cause large memory overhead. Although EffiCuts [1  t h e st at e o f-t he a rt  decision-tree technique, can avoid large memory overhead with Separable trees and Equi-dense cuts, it suffers from 
several problems: 1\ too many memory accesses, which worsen the low-speed problem of algorithmic techniques; 2 a large and variable number of separated trees, which raises its barrier for practical implementation; 3\ and the needs of specialized comparator circuitry to support equi-dense cuts which further limits its adoption in practice. Decomposition based schemes, such as BV [13  c a n  l e ver a ge t h e pa ra l l e l i s m offered by modern hardware to improve performance, but they have poor storage scalability. Therefore, these algorithmic approaches are memory and performance inefficient, falling short of the needs of high-speed networks Thus, it is worth investigating new algorithms with higher performance and better scalability 
In this paper, we propose HybridCuts, a combination of decomposition and decision-tree techniques that improves storage and performance simultaneously. The decomposition part of HybridCuts has the benefits of traditional decomposition-based techniques, but without the trouble of aggregating results from a large number of bit vectors or a set of big lookup tables. Meanwhile, thanks to the clever partitioning of the rule set, an efficient cutting algorithm following the decomposition is employed to build short decision trees with significant reduction on rule replications The main contributions of this paper include  
2013 IEEE 21st Annual Symposium on High-Performance Interconnects 978-0-7695-5103-6/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/HOTI.2013.12 41 


002 002 002 002 002 002 002 002 
A rule set decomposition algorithm based on the observation that most rules have at least one small field. The proposed decomposition has the benefits of traditional decomposition-based techniques, but without the trouble of expensive aggregations A novel one-dimensional cutting algorithm called FiCuts, which has a global view on the characteristics of the subset of rules, and therefore is simpler and works more intelligently than HiCuts A two-stage cutting framework which combines onedimensional cutting and multi-dimensional cutting techniques, and is adaptive at building short decision trees with significant reduction on rule replications  We evaluate our algorithm using ClassBench d show that HybridCuts is able to produce a very small number of short decision trees with low memory overhead Even for rule sets up to 100K entries, the constructed data structure can be accommodated in on-chip memory. In addition, it is quite feasible that a carefully pipelined and parallelized hardware implementation of HybridCuts will achieve a line-speed performance  The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section II introduces the background. Section III briefly summarizes the related work. Section IV presents the technical details of HybridCuts. Section V provides experimental results. Finally Section VI concludes the paper II B ACKGROUND  The purpose of packet classification is to find a matching rule from a packet classifier for a packet. A packet classifier is a set of rules, with each rule R consisting of a tuple of F field values \(exact value, prefix or range\ and an action to be taken in case of a match. In todayês classifiers, a typical rule is a 5-tuple: the source and destination IP addresses \(i.e., SA DA\, the source and destination ports \(i.e., SP, DP\ and the protocol number \(i.e., Prot\. The rules are often prioritized to resolve potential multiple match scenarios There are several standard problems in the field of computational geometry that resemble packet classification From a geometric point of view, each rule R represents a hyper-rectangle and an incoming packet p represents a point in F-dimensional space.  If a packet p matches a particular rule R, then the point represented by p falls into the hyperrectangle specified by R. Therefore, packet classification can be treated as a point location problem in computational geometry. According f o r N n onov erlapping hy perrectangles in F-dimensional space, the best bounds for locating a point are either \002\(log N\me with \002\(N F pace or \002\(log F-1 N\me with \002\(N\pace. Therefore, the mathematic complexity of packet classification is extremely high as the number of rules or dimensions increase. Clearly this is impractical: with just 1000 rules and 4 fields, a solution is either impracticably \(N F is about 1000G\oo slow \(log F-1 N is about 1000 memory accesses As the above example illustrates, it is infeasible to design a single algorithm that can perform well in all cases Fortunately, packet classification rules in real-life applications have some inherent characteristics that can be exploited to reduce the complexity [11, 16 T h e following is a distillation of previous observations relevant to our work   The protocol field is restricted to a small set of values e.g., TCP, UDP, and the wildcard Rules specify a limited number of distinct transport port ranges The number of address prefixes matching a given address is typically five or less The number of rules matching a given packet is typically five or less Many different rules share the same field values III R ELATED W ORK  A lot of algorithmic approaches have been proposed for packet classification in the past fifteen years. They can be categorized into two major groups: decomposition based [9 13, 18 d decis i on t r ee bas ed [912 16 1 9 22  algorithms. In decomposition based schemes, independent search on each header field is performed for the whole rule set, and then the results are integrated to get the matching rule. These approaches offer high throughput but require a large amount of storage in order to aggregate the results from individual search operations efficiently. In decisiontree based schemes, the geometric view of the packet classification problem is taken and a decision tree is built They work by recursively cutting the search space into smaller subspaces. This is repeated until a predefined number of rules are contained by each subspace. When a packet arrives, the decision tree is traversed to find a matching rule at a leaf node. Next, we give a more detailed review on a few representative techniques Parallel Bit-Vectors scheme [13 is o n e o f th e m o st  representative decomposition based solutions. It works on the individual fields of rules independently for partially matching results, which are encoded as bit vectors. Each bit in a bit vector stands for a partial matching result to a single rule. Then a bit-wise AND operation on all bit vectors is performed to get the final result. The most significant ç1 bit in the final bit vector denotes a matched rule with the highest priority. Parallel BV approach has \002\(log N\earch time and a rather unfavorable \002\(N 2 emory requirement Aggregate Bit-Vector\(ABV\ [18 be v i e w ed as an  improved version of BV, which seeks to improve the performance of BV based on the fact that real filter sets often result in sparse vectors containing a large portion of 0és inside. ABV makes use of this phenomenon by compressing the bit vectors into several chunks containing 1é bits. Although ABV can improve performance to some extent, the unfavorable memory problem still exists 
  
    
A The Packet Classification Problem B Complexity in Theory C Complexity in Practice A Parallel Bit-Vectors \(BV 
        
42 


HiCuts d Hy perCu t s 11] tak e a g e o m etric v i e w of the packet classification problem. Each rule is viewed as a hypercube in an F-dimensional space, where F is the number of fields in a rule. Each packet defines a point in this F-dimensional space. HiCuts cuts the search space into many equal-sized subspaces recursively until the rules covered by each subspace is less than the pre-defined bucket size called This cutting process is carried out using a tree data structure, which is called a decision-tree. The root node of the tree covers the whole searching space which contains all rules. HiCuts selects one dimension to cut and decides how many subspaces should be cut using a space optimization function with a parameter called In case a rule spans multiple subspaces, rule replication happens which is an undesirable case. Upon the construction of the decision tree, an incoming packet searches along the tree using its field values until a leaf node is hit, then a linear search is taken to get a best matched rule, if any, among the ones in the leaf node. HyperCuts is an improved version of HiCuts, which is more flexible in that it allows cutting on multiple fields per step, resulti ng in a fatter and shorter decision tree. Both HiCuts and HyperCuts have the same rule replication problem, leading to significant memory overhead, especially for large rule tables EffiCuts t ateoft h e art decis iontree techn iq u e identifies two primary causes for large memory overhead big rules suffer a lot of replications, and equi-sized cuts create many ineffective nodes. Based on these observations EffiCuts proposes two techniques to reduce memory overhead. One is that EffiCuts uses a partition method to separate rule set into several subsets, depending on whether the value of each dimension is wildcard \(or almost wildcard and each subset creates its own decision-tree independently using HyperCuts. The other one is equi-dense cuts instead of equi-size cuts, which tries to combine similar nodes into one. Although EffiCuts reduces memory overhead dramatically, Efficuts suffers from too many memory accesses and a large number of separated trees \(31 in the worst-case, and 12 on average\ficuts alleviates this problem with selective tree merging. However, the merging is restricted to pairs of trees meeting special conditions Otherwise, it will destroy separability and result in significant rule replications with arbitrary tree-merging. In our experiments, we observe that the selective tree merging results in 8 trees on average ParaSplit [1 oth er rece n t  w o r k th at is decisio n tree based and makes use of rule set partitioning to significantly reduce rule replications. It is different from EffiCuts in that its objective is for efficient hardware implementation using FPGAs. It employs a complex heuristic for rule set partitioning, which may require 5000 to 10000 iterations to reach an optimal partitioning. For hardware acceleration, it applies parallelism and pipelining in conjunction: the multiple trees are searched in parallel, and the search on individual trees is pipelined. Although HybridCuts proposed in this work is an algorithmic solution, it is perfectly suitable for similar hardware accelerations IV H YBRID C UTS  As the authors of EffiCuts observed, the overlapping of rules in a classifier varies vastly in size, causing extensive replications of large rules during the algorithmsê fine cuts for separating the small rules. An effective solution to address this problem is to decompose the original set into several subsets for cutting-based algorithms. But EffiCuts applies this principle aggressively, leading to an uncontrolled large number of trees. In this paper, we propose a new decomposition algorithm to separate rules into a few subsets, and then we introduce a set of efficient cutting algorithms on the individual subsets EffiCuts produces up to 31 decision trees with a partition method that takes the properties of rules on all five dimensions into consideration. Unlike EffiCuts, we decompose rules based on their characteristics shared in a single dimension. This decomposition produces only 6 subsets for a typical 5-tuple rule set. In fact, since we do not consider protocol dimension, just 5 subsets will be generated in our baseline algorithm, and this number is further reduced to 3 with an optimization The rationale behind this strategy of decomposition is simple: by grouping rules that are small in the same field we get a dimension in the space where the extensive replications bothering tradition al cutting-based algorithms by wide overlaps are significantl y reduced. In addition subsets decomposed this way enable a simple and spaceefficient one-dimensional cutting algorithm To proceed to more detailed discussion, we first introduce some definitions and observations used by HybridCuts. Given an N-dimensional rule R = \(F 1 F 2 F 3    F N en i represents the length of field F i and a threshold value vector T = \(T 1 T 2 T 3   T N We call F i is a  if Len i 003 T i or a if Len i T i   Then, we define the following concepts for R   i 1, 2, 3  N}, F i in R is a big field  i 1, 2, 3  N}, F i in R is a small field TABLE  I  P ERCENTAGE OF B IG RULES  Big rules Tê\(16,16,8,8 Tê\(12,12,6,6 Tê\(8,8,4,4 ACL_1K ACL_10K ACL_100K 0.55 0.22 0.00 0.55 0.22 0.00 3.93 3.11 0.00 FW_1K FW_10K FW_100K 1.14 0.79 1.28 1.52 1.13 1.70 3.29 3.87 4.71 IPC_1K IPC_10K IPC_100K 0.21 0.04 0.48 0.96 0.94 1.86 4.85 3.75 9.84  
    
002 003 004 003 
B HiCuts and HyperCuts binth spfac C EffiCuts D ParaSplit A Decomposition-based Framework 
Definitions small field big field Big rule Small rule 
 
43 


     
Field-wise decomposition Post-decomposition 
 
B FiCuts: A One-Dimensional Cutting Technique 
For a typical 5-tuple rule since the protocol field is restricted to a small set of values \(tcp, udp, *, etc\we just consider the other four fields. Then the threshold value vector T for 5-tuple rules is simplified to a four-dimensional vector and a rule R\(SA, DA, SP, DP, Prot\ called a small rule if there exists at least one small field in {SA, DA, SP DP}. For the sake of convenience in writing, we use a logarithmic vector Tê to represent the threshold value vector T. For example, if we set threshold value vector T = \(2 16 2 16  2 8 2 8 then index logarithmic Tê = \(16, 16, 8, 8 Table I shows the percentage of big rules under three different thresholds for a number of rule sets from ClassBench. It is clear that the percentage of big rules is very low even under very demanding thresholds. This indicates that the vast majority of the rules have at least one small field satisfying a threshold T as narrow as Table I gives Based on above definitions and observations, we decompose a 5-tuple rule set into the following five subsets without duplicates among each other  1 Big-subset: SA, DA, SP and DP are all big field 2 SA-subset: SA is a small field for each rule 3 DA-subset: DA is a small field for each rule 4 SP-subset: SP is a small field for each rule 5 DP-subset: DP is a small field for each rule  Many rules may have multiple small fields, and there exists options on deciding where to go for a rule with multiple small fields. A simple metric for decision is the balance on the sizes of the subsets. For example, when processing a rule R with two small fields: SA and DA suppose the sizes of the SA-subset and the DA-subset up to now are N 1 and N 2 respectively, then rule R  will go to SAsubset if N 1 003 N 2 or to DA-subset vice versa. There exist several other guidelines for decomposition, which will not be discussed here for the limitation of space The proposed decomposition is somewhat like the first step of a traditional decomposition based approach, where rules are projected into a specific field for a field-wise matching. However, the decomposition here is quite different from traditional schemes in two aspects. First, rules are partitioned into multiple subsets instead of all being projected onto each field. Second, the partitioned subset will undergo a cutting process to find a single match, instead of finding multiple rules \(often encoded in a long bit vector\ matching the incoming packet on the projected field. Figure 1 and Figure 2 highlights their differences clearly From Figure 1 and Figure 2, it can be seen that the proposed decomposition scheme can leverage the benefits of traditional decomposition-based techniques without the time- and space- inefficient aggregation step. In more details instead of searching in each dimension for the whole rule set we first partition the rule set into several subsets using the algorithm described above. For each subset, we build a decision-tree with a hybrid of cu tting algorithms efficient at different tree-construction stages. Then matching operations can be performed on these decision trees in parallel. Finally instead of aggregating multiple bit vectors to get the final matching in traditional decomposition based techniques, we just need to perform a simple priority-based selection among the outcomes from the individual search processes After presenting the decomposition-based framework, we elaborate on the decision-tree construction process embedded in the middle part of Figure 2. First, we introduce a simple but effective one-dimensional cutting algorithm called Fixed intelligent Cuttings \(FiCuts\which will be applied in the first stage of decision-tree construction FiCuts derives from HiCuts, but with a better global view on the characteristics of the rule set. We use a small example of two-dimensional rule set shown in Figure 3 for subsequent discussion HiCuts is an èIntelligentê cutting algorithm since it can choose the cutting dimension and decide the number of cuts with local heuristics at each tree node. However constrained by the lack of a global view on the properties of a rule set, HiCuts does not always make intelligent cutting decisions. Take the rules shown in Figure 4 for example \(a subset of èverticalê rules in Figure 3\ we use the  Figure 3. An example rule set  Figure 1. Traditional Decomposition  Figure 2. Improved Decompos ition 
44 


 
binth spfac C Multi-dimensional Cutting np sm = \002 i NumRules\(child i np np binth spfac 
heuristics described in HiCuts that cuts along the dimension with the largest number of distinct components \(projected intervals\ rules in that dimension, we can see that the number of distinct components of rules in X, Y dimension is 5 and 7 respectively. As a result, the dimension been chosen at the root node is Y. Figure 4 shows the tree built if we set 4 and 2 From the tree built, we can see that three rules \(R8, R9 and R11\d the depth of the tree is 2. But if HiCuts is intelligent enough, it should choose dimension X as Figure 5 shows, where a tree of depth one is built without any rule replication In Figure 5, the rules in the subset are all small in Xdimension. This facilitates cuts along the X-dimension with little rule replications  Since the rules have been grouped into several subsets, with each subset sharing the same small field, FiCuts is fed with this information, and exploits it for efficient cuttings. In essence, FiCuts has two features as follows  1\ Simplicity: FiCuts conducts cuttings on the subset along a fixed dimension instead of changing cutting dimensions dynamically based on local optimization considerations 2\ Adaptivity: FiCuts can decide when to stop this onedimensional cutting and resort to other more effective cutting methods  The first feature enables FiCuts to build short trees with significant reduction on ru le replications, as contrasted in Figure 4 and Figure 5. FiCuts uses a heuristic to pick a suitable np \(i.e., the number of cuts to make\n the fixed dimension. But with the shrinking of the search space, rule replications begin to rise with fine cuts.  The second feature of FiCuts is to address this problem, which will be elaborated in the next part As discussed in the previous part, rule replications become intense at some fine cuts, and the fixed-dimensional FiCuts is no longer the optimal algorithm. Fortunately FiCuts is able to detect this problem and signals switching to a more appropriate multi dimensional cutting FiCuts makes the decision as follows. If the number of cuts at a node is less than a predefined MAXCUTS Based on the space measure function described in HiCuts  ot difficult to see that there are two cases resulting in MAXCUTS: either the subspace becomes small enough that causes serious rule replications, or there are very few number of rules for satisfying the space measure function above with MAXCUTS We show how HybridCuts works on the example in Figure 3. First, the decompositio n step partitions the rule set into two subsets, as shown in Figure 6 and Figure 7 respectively. Then a two-stage cutting process is carried out At the one-dimensional cutting stage, FiCuts processes the corresponding subset until a leaf node is formed, or it discovers that it no longer works efficiently. Figure 6 shows the decision tree built for the Y-Subset by FiCuts if we set 2 and 2. From this example, we can see that FiCuts just works fine: it builds the whole decision tree without any rule replication. However, Figure7 shows a different scenario, where pure FiCuts does not solve the problem. When FiCuts reaches Node1, it is no longer effective by continuing cutting along the X-axis. Therefore it is necessary to resort to other effective techniques Fortunately, this case only happens at tree nodes near the leaf level, and a multi-dimensional cutting algorithm will be applied to address it In the multi-dimensional cutting stage, we use HyperCuts because it works efficiently for small rule sets and the number of rules in nodes is much smaller than original subset after the processing of FiCuts. The result of the multi-dimensional cutting is illustrated with two red dotted lines in Figure 7     Fi g ure 6.Y-Subset and h y brid structure     Figure 4. Non-intelligent cutting     Figure 5. Intelligent cutting 
45 


   146 198 104 2.6K 2.2M N/A 210 3.3K 0.2M 39 48 52 46 36 81 39 50 36 31 47 29 38 25 40 26 46 37       Figure 7. X-Subset and hybrid structure TABLE  II  P ERCENTAGE OF B IG RULES  Big rules Tê\(16,16 Tê\(12,12 Tê\(8,8 ACL_1K ACL_10K ACL_100K 0.55 0.22 0.00 0.55 0.22 0.00 3.93 3.11 0.00 FW_1K FW_10K FW_100K 4.17 1.54 2.15 4.30 1.85 2.54 6.07 4.59 5.56 IPC_1K IPC_10K IPC_100K 0.64 0.10 0.78 1.49 1.38 2.80 5.33 4.33 13.28 
  
D Optimization A Memory Consumption 
 Based on previous observations that many classifiers specify a very limited number of port ranges, it can be derived that most rules have at least one small IP address field \(SA or DA\able II shows the percentage of big rules for rule set generated from ClassBench Based on this observation, we propose an optimization on decomposition to further reduce the number of decision trees. For a 5-tuple rule set, we decompose it into three subsets  1 Big-subset: Both SA and DA are big field 2 SA-subset: SA is a small field for each rule 3 DA-subset: DA is a small field for each rule  The processing procedure for each subset is the same as above, and in the experimentation, the result of this optimized HybridCuts will be used for comparison V E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS  In this section, we present the performance results of HybridCuts with two other representative cutting techniques EffiCuts and HyperCuts. The rule sets used in our experiments are publicly available from h ic h  provides three types of rule sets: Access Control List \(ACL Firewall \(FW\d IP Chain \(IPC\. Each rule set is named by its type and size, e.g., ACL_10K refers to the access control list rule set containing about 10,000 rules. Since 100K rule sets are not available in w e g en erate th e m  using ClassBench w h ic h creates s y nt h e tic cla s s i f i ers  with characteristics representative of real-word classifiers We are also very grateful to the authors of EffiCuts for providing us the source code, which contains EffiCuts and an implementation of HiCuts and HyperCuts by them. This enables us to make a fair and justifiable comparison. In response, our implementation of HybridCuts has also been made public to the open-source community hosted at GitHub \(https://github.com/lwj4333765/HybridCuts The primary metrics for evaluating the performance of a packet classification are memory consumption and the number of memory accesses, and we report them as follows Table III shows the memory consumption per rule for HyperCuts, EffiCuts, and our HybridCuts. Both EffiCuts and HybirdCuts achieve significant memory reduction compared to HyperCuts. This is especially obvious for FW classifiers \(HyperCuts runs out of memory for FW-100K rule set, so its results are N/A in Table III and IV\The reason of this memory saving, as explained in t h at a  significant fraction of FW rules \(about 30%\ave many wildcard fields, incurring ram pant replication of rules in HyperCuts. Our HybridCuts consumes similar amount or less memory compared to EffiCuts. Note that the primary objective of our work is to achieve less memory accesses without sacrificing memory consumption and ease of implementation. We can see from Table III that the excellent memory efficiency of EffiCuts is kept in our work As for another partition-based technique ParaSplit that is implemented on FPGA, we are unable to repeat their experiments. But from the results reported in w e ca n  see that our work consumes less memory than ParaSplit. For example, they report that IPC_10K consumes roughly 110 bytes per rule for EffiCuts, and 100 bytes for ParaSplit. In our experimentation, HybridCuts consumes only 46 bytes on IPC_10K. It is worth noting that our experiments reports 50 bytes for EffiCuts, significantly less than the result reported in partly becau s e t h eir i m ple m entation o f  EffiCuts does not perform tree merging. More interestingly for FW_10K, ParaSplit reports 80 bytes per rule, where our HybridCuts consumes only 25 bytes  TABLE  III  M EMORY CONSUMPTION  BYTES  RULE  
Binth=8 Spfac=4 Tê=\(16, 16 ACL F W IPC 1K 10K 100K 1K 10K 100K 1K 10K 100K HyperCuts EffiCuts HybridCuts 
    
46 


Binth=8 Spfac=4 Tê=\(16, 16 ACL F W IPC 1K 10K 100K 1K 10K 100K 1K 10K 100K HyperCuts EffiCuts HybridCuts 
 
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 ACL_1K ACL_10K ACL_100K FW_1K FW_10K FW_100K IPC_1K IPC_10K IPC_100K Overall #memory accesses Worst-case tree height 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 ACL_1K ACL_10K ACL_100K FW_1K FW_10K FW_100K IPC_1K IPC_10K IPC_100K SA_SIZE DA_SIZE BIG_SIZE 
  
B Memory Accesses C Potential of Parallelization 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 ACL_1K ACL_10K ACL_100K FW_1K FW_10K FW_100K IPC_1K IPC_10K IPC_100K SA_MEM DA_MEM BIG_MEM 
 
   24 24 22 35 27 N/A 26 31 26 41 41 36 95 76 117 92 110 80 24 29 29 31 17 42 25 40 31 
Table IV shows the performance in terms of the number of memory accesses for HyperCuts, EffiCuts, and our HybridCuts. It is clear that our work performs much better than EffiCuts. The improvement on FW rule sets is more striking, achieving an average of 3.4x speed-up. This improvement, combined with the result in Table III, justifies our claim that a careful combination of decomposition and cutting can avoid rule replications and produce efficient decision-trees at the same time To gain more insights, we look into the sizes of the individual subsets and their respective decision trees. The results are shown by Figure 8 and Figure 9 respectively From Figure 8, it can be seen that very few rules are categorized as big rules, and the subsets corresponding to SA and DA fields are balanced in size. Whatês more important is that this balance extends to the corresponding decision-trees. As shown in Figure 9, the SA tree and DA tree are almost close in sizes in many cases. Although in a few cases, the big rules contribute an appreciable amount of memory, it does not affect the whole memory consumption seriously. Thus, enabled by the clever partition algorithm and effective FiCuts embedded in the first stage for subset trees, we can build fatter and shorter trees with seldom rule replications for each subset compared with traditional cutting algorithms If parallel searching on multiple trees is desired for speedup in implementation, a natural concern is whether the size balance of the subsets and trees leads to similar balance in height, as the overall performance of a parallel implementation is constrained by the worst case. Therefore we look at the worst-case tree height among the multiple trees. This result is presented in Figure 10. It can be seen that in most cases, the worst-case height of a single tree with rules in leaf nodes included\ is half of or less than the overall number of memory accesses on all the trees. This means that the trees constructed are balanced in height among each other, amenable to a parallel implementation with a potential 2x speedup ParaSplit does not report the number of overall memory accesses for a packet, as it aims at hardware implementation whose performance is decided by the worst-case height of the trees. Therefore, we can compare our results with ParaSplit in terms of worst-case height of trees. In ParaSplit the results on IPC_10K and FW_10K are both 25. Our results are 18 and 10 respectively, as shown in Figure 10 The shorter trees mean that if similar hardware acceleration is employed, HybridCuts is likely to achieve higher performance than ParaSplit. Moreover, our technique requires less hardware resources, as only three decisiontrees are constructed VI C ONCLUSION  This paper presents HybridCuts, a new packet classification technique that combines decomposition and decision-tree techniques to improve storage and performance simultaneously. We develop a rule set decomposition algorithm based on the observation that most rules have at least one small field. This decomposition avoids the trouble of result aggregation suffered by traditional decomposition-ba sed approaches. Instead, it yields subsets of rules amenable to very efficient cutting algorithms. To better exploit the characteristics of the subsets, a two-stage cutting algorithm is carried out. Being aware of the global characteristics of the subset under processing, the first stage employs a one-dimensional cutting algorithm called FiCuts. It either ends at the leaf nodes, or invokes an alternate multi-dimensional cutting algorithm when realizing that it no longer works efficiently  TABLE  IV  N UMBER OF MEMORY ACCESSES   Figure 8. The sizes of subsets  Figure 9. The sizes of trees  Figure 10. Potential of parallelization 
47 


D. E. Taylor, çSurvey ACM Computing Surveys, 2005. 37\(3\: p. 238-275 2 H. Liu in IEEE HOTI, 2002 3 K. Lakshminarayanan, A. Rangarajan, and S. Venkatachary   in ACM SIGCOMM, 2005 4 E. Spitznagel, , D. E. Taylor, and J. Turner in IEEE ICNP, 2003 5 Y. Ma and S. Banerjee  in ACM SIGCOMM, 2012 6 Q. Dong, et al  in ACM SIGMETRICS, 2006 7 W. Jiang and VK. Prasanna in  FPGA, 2009 8 B. Vamanan and T. Vijaykumar in ACM CoNEXT, 2011 9 V. Srinivasan, et al ACM SIGCOMM, 1998  P. Gupta and N. McKeown in IEEE HOTI, 1999  S. Singh , F Baboescu, G. Varghese, J. Wang in ACM SIGCOMM, 2003  B. Vamanan, G. Voskuilen, and T. Vijaykumar in ACM SIGCOMM, 2010  TV. Lakshman and D. Stiliadis in ACM SIGCOMM, 1998  D. E. Taylor. and J. S. Turner in IEEE INFOCOM, 2005  M. Overmars and A. Stappen Journal of Algorithms, 1996. 21\(3\: p. 629-656  F. Baboescu, S. Singh, and G. Varghese in IEEE INFOCOM 2003  P  Gupta and N. McKeown  in ACM SIGCOMM, 1999  F. Baboescu and G. Varghese in ACM SIGCOMM, 2001  J. Fong, , X. Wang, Y. Qi, J. Li, W. Jiang in IEEE HOTI, 2012  A. Feldman and S. Muthukrishnan in IEEE INFOCOM, 2000  Y. Qi, B. Xu, F. He, B. Yang, J. Yu and J. Li in ANCS, 2007  Y. Qi, L. Xu, B. Yang, Y. Xue and J. Li in IEEE INFOCOM, 2009  http://www.arl.wustl.edu/~hs1/PClassEval.html  
 
                       
Compared to the state-of-the-art EffiCuts algorithm HybridCuts achieves significant speedup with the same level of reduction on memory consumption. Meanwhile, the very small and fixed number of decision-trees, which are balanced in size and height, enables a much easier implementation than EffiCuts in practice. Compared to ParaSplit, a recent work that also employs rule set partitioning and speeds up its algorithm with an FPGA implementation, our HybridCuts works better in terms of memory consumption and memory accesses, and is also amenable for FPGA acceleration A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work is supported by the grant of Shenzhen municipal government for basic research on Internet technologies \(Outstanding Young Scholar, No JC201005270274A R EFERENCES  1 
and taxonomy of packet classification techniques Efficient mapping of range classifier into Ternary-CAM Algorithms for advanced packet classification with ternary CAMs Packet classification using extended TCAMs A smart pre-classifier to reduce power consumption of TCAMs for multi-dimensional packet classification Packet classifiers in ternary CAMs can be smaller Large-scale wire-speed packet classification on FPGAs TreeCAM: Decoupling Updates and Lookups in Packet Classification Fast and Scalable Layer Four Switching Packet classification using hierarchical intelligent cuttings Packet classification using multidimensional cutting EffiCuts: optimizing packet classification for memory and throughput High-speed policy-based packet forwarding using efficient multi-dimensional range matching Classbench: A packet classification benchmark Range searching and point location among fat objects Packet classification for core routers: Is there an alternative to CAMs Packet classification on multiple fields Scalable packet classification ParaSplit: A Scalable Architecture on FPGA for Terabit Packet Classification Tradeoffs for packet classification Towards Highperformance Flow-level Packet Processing on Multi-core Network Processors Packet Classification Algorithms: From Theory to Practice 
48 


 


    





     





 


  


 





   


  


  











 





 


 


     


   


 








         





Smartphone-Based Human Machine Interface with Application to Remote Control of Robot Arm 2316 Carlos Parga, Xiaoou Li, and Wen Yu An Optimal State Dependent Haptic Guidance Controller via a Hard Rein 2322 Anuradha Ranasinghe, Kaspar Althoefer, Thrishantha Nanayakkara Jacques Penders, and Prokar Dasgupta A Taxonomy of Robot Deception and Its Benefits in HRI 2328 Jaeeun Shim and Ronald C. Arkin Developmental Human-Robot Imitation Learning of Drawing with a Neuro Dynamical System 2336 Keita Mochizuki, Shun Nishide, Hiroshi G. Okuno, and Tetsuya Ogata SMC: Systems Science - SYS-13 Specification and Model-Based Diagnosis of Higher-Order Discrete-Event Systems 2342 Gianfranco Lamperti and Xiangfu Zhao Marking Observer of Labeled Petri Nets with Uncertainty in the Initial Marking 2348 Maria Paola Cabasino, Carla Seatzu, and Christoforos N. Hadjicostis The Effects of Temperature Variation on Data Center IT Systems 2354 Rafael Souza, Gustavo Callou, Kadna Camboin, Jo„o Ferreira, and Paulo Maciel Automated Generalized Petri Net Reduction Using an Evolutionary Approach Applied to a Manufacturing System Model 2360 Andre Bevilaqua, Edilson R.R. Kato, Emerson C. Pedrino, and Roberto H. Tsunaki Computationally Improved Optimal Deadlock Prevention Policy for Linear Programming Problems of Flexible Manufacturing Systems 2366 Yen-Liang Pan, Mu-Der Jenga, Sheng-Luen Chungb, and Yu-Xin Guoa An Evolutionary Approach for Fuzzy Knowledge Learning 2372 Christian Onassis S·nchez Barreto and Xiaoou Li SMC: Systems Science - SYS-14 Sonar-Based Detection and Tracking of a Diver for Underwater Human-Robot Interaction Scenarios 2378 Kevin J. DeMarco, Michael E. West, and Ayanna M. Howard Cooperative Exploration Using Potential Games 2384 George Philip, Howard M. Schwartz, Sidney N. Givigi, and Jr Semi-direct Teaching Method for Grasping Objects in Service Mobile Robot Systems - Teaching Data Generation 2390 Jorge David, Figueroa Heredia, and Ota Jun 
xxxix 


Evaluating 3D Polygon Maps for Mobile Robot Localisation 2396 Simon Thompson and Satoshi Kagami Tight Dynamic Movement Primitives for Complex Trajectory Generation 2402 Yosef Cohen and Sigal Berman Real-Time Robust Tracking with Commodity RGBD Camera 2408 Abdenour Amamra and Nabil Aouf Conflict Resolution - S16-03 Modeling the Continual Interactions by Repeated Games of Two Agents 2414 Yuankan Huang and Takehiro Inohara An Ontology-Based Computational Framework for Analyzing Public Opinion Framing in News Media 2420 Fernando Corrales Barboza, Hayeong Jeong, Kiyoshi Kobayashi and Shun Shiramatsu A Hierarchical Approach to Study Water Diversion Conflicts in China 2427 Shawei He, Keith W. Hipel, and D. Marc Kilgour Inverse Approach in Third Party Intervention 2433 Rami A. Kinsara, Keith W. Hipel, and D. Marc Kilgour A Game Theoretic Framework for Subcontractors Partnering in Resource Management 2437 Sadegh Asgari, Abbas Afshar, and Kaveh Madani Formal Strategic Analysis of the Conflict over Syria 2442 Majid Sheikhmohammady, Hadi Bitalebi, Adel Moatti, and Keith W. Hipel Hybrid Metaheuristics - C03-01 Heuristic Analysis Influence on the Solution of the Vehicle Routing Problem by Means of an Iterated Local Search 2448 Alberto Gomez, Paolo Priore, Jose Lopez, and Nazario Garcia Hybrid Imperialist Competitive Algorithm with Simplex Approach: Application to Electric Motor Design 2454 Julien Lepagnot, Lhassane Idoumghar, and Daniel Fodorean A Multi-objective Approach for Assignment Containers to AIVs in a Container Terminal 2460 Radhia Zaghdoud, Simon Collart-Dutilleul, Khaled Ghedira, Khaled Mesghouni and Kamel Zidi 
xl 


A Parallel Hybrid Genetic Algorithm on Cloud Computing for the Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows 2467 AndrÈ Siqueira Ruela, Frederico Gadelha Guimar„es Ricardo Augusto Rabelo Oliveira, Brayan Neves, Vicente Peixoto Amorim and Larissa Maiara Fraga A Hybrid Technique Using Multi-objective Particle Swarm Optimization and Random Forests for PROBE Attacks Detection in a Network 2473 Arif Jamal Malik and Farrukh Aslam Khan Innovative Technologies and Applications in Computer Intelligence - C04-02 Strategy Selection by Reinforcement Learning for Multi-car Elevator Systems 2479 Masaki Ikuta, Kenichi Takahashi, and Michimasa Inaba Deep Belief Network for Modeling Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning Policies 2485 Predrag D. Djurdjevic and Manfred Huber Artificial Neural Network Analysis of Twin Tunnelling-Induced Ground Settlements 2492 Seyed Amin Khatami, Alireza Mirhabibi, Abbas Khosravi, and Saeid Nahavandi A New Approach Based on Support Vector Machine for Solving Stochastic Optimization 2498 Seyed Amin Khatami, Abbas Khosravi, and Saeid Nahavandi Neuroevolution by Particle Swarm Optimization with Adaptive Input Selection for Controlling Platform-Game Agent 2504 Akira Hara, Jun-ichi Kushida, Koji Kitao, and Tetsuyuki Takahama Profiling Student Learning Styles with Multilayer Perceptron Neural Networks 2510 Annabel Latham, Keeley Crockett, and David Mclean Intelligent Learning in Control Systems - S02-01 Design of Data-Oriented GMDH-Based Controller 2516 S. Wakitani, G. Martins, and T. Yamamoto Integrated Modeling for Intelligent Battery Thermal Management 2522 Zhen Liu and Han-Xiong Li Embedded Design of an Emotion-Aware Music Player 2528 Carlos A. Cervantes and Kai-Tai Song Direct Adaptive Fuzzy-Wavelet-Neural-Network Control for Electric Two-Wheeled Robotic Vehicles 2534 Ching-Chih Tsai and Ching-Chih Tsai 
xli 


Model-Based Indirect Learning Method Based on Dyna-Q Architecture 2540 Kao-Shing Hwang, Wei-Cheng Jiang, Yu-Jen Chen, and Wei-Han Wang A System-Level Approach for Model-Based Verification of Distributed Software Systems 2545 Seyedehmehrnaz Mireslami and Behrouz H. Far Medical Image and Signal Processing - S22-03 Right Ventricle Segmentation by Temporal Information Constrained Gradient Vector Flow 2551 Xulei Yang, Si Yong Yeo, Yi Su, Calvin Lim, Min Wan, Liang Zhong and Ru San Tan An Early Development of Force Distribution Sensor Using Pressure-Sensitive Conductive Rubber for Soft Tissue Balance in Total Knee Arthroplasty 2556 Mohd Hanafi Mat Som, Kouki Nagamune, Takashi Kamiya, Shogo Kawaguchi Tomoyuki Matsumoto, Ryosuke Kuroda, and Masahiro Kurosaka An Evaluation Method of Force Concentration in PS Type of Total Knee Arthroplasty with Force Distribution Measurement System 2561 Takashi Kamiya, Shogo Kawaguchi, Mohd Hanafi Mat Som, Kouki Nagamune Tomoyuki Matsumoto, Ryosuke Kuroda, and Masaliiro Kurosaka An Improved Binarisation Algorithm for Nailfold Capillary Skeleton Extraction 2565 Niraj P. Doshi, Gerald Schaefer, and Shao Ying Zhu Production of the Grounds for Melanoma Classification Using Adaptive Fuzzy Inference Neural Network 2570 Yuji Ikuma and Hitoshi lyatomi Approaches to General Purpose GPU Acceleration of Digital Signal Processing in Optical Coherence Tomography Systems 2576 K.I. Kapinchev, F.R.M. Barnes, A. Bradu, and A.Gh. Podoleanu Smart Technologies for Civil Applications of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles - H11-01 Doing the Right Thing: Collision Avoidance for Autonomous Air Vehicles 2581 Chinmay Mishra, Mitul Mehta, Elias J. Griffith, and Jason F. Ralph Equivalence of BRISK Descriptors for the Registration of Variable Bit-Depth Aerial Imagery 2587 Elias J. Griffith, Yuan Chi, Michael Jump, and Jason F. Ralph Invariant Observer Design of a RGB-D Aided Inertial System for MAV in GPS-Denied Environments 2593 Dachuan Li, Qing Li, Nong Cheng, Jingyan Song, Qinfan Wu, and Liangwen Tang 
xlii 


Safer Flying Using an Immune-Inspired Adaptive Health Monitoring System 2600 Maizura Mokhtar and Joe Howe Scheduling UAV Surveillance Tasks, Lessons Learned from Trials with Users 2606 Jeremy Baxter, Scott Findlay, Martin Paxton, Andrew Berry, and Jon Platts QinetiQ SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-15 Gastric Lymph Node Cancer Detection of Multiple Features Classifier for Pathology Diagnosis Support System 2611 Takumi Ishikawa, Junko Takahashi, Hiroshi Takemura, Hiroshi Mizoguchi and Takeshi Kuwata Modelling Prey in Discrete Time Predator-Prey Systems 2617 Rory Mullan, David H. Glass, and Mark McCartney A Measuring and Analysis Method of Coupled Range of Motion of the Human Hands 2623 Natsuki Miyata, Yuki Shimizu, and Yusuke Maeda Multi-objective Optimization Using Pareto GA for Gene-Selection from Microarray Data for Disease Classification 2629 Goutam Chakraborty and Basabi Chakraborty Grasp Database That Covers Variation of Contact Region Usage 2635 Natsuki Miyata, Takayoshi Hironom, and Yusuke Maeda An Empirical Investigation of Virtual Screening 2641 Amir Ali Rafati-Afshar and Abdelhamid Bouchachia SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-16 Transition Learning between Balanced Ensemble Learning and Negative Correlation Learning 2647 Yong Liu, Qiangfu Zhao, and Neil Yen Profit Sharing That Can Learn Deterministic Policy for POMDPs Environments by Kohonen Feature Map Associative Memory 2651 Daichi Koma and Yuko Osana Using Genetic Algorithm to Improve Classification Accuracy on Imbalanced Data 2659 Jair Cervantes, Xiaoou Li, and Wen Yu An Anomaly Analysis Method Based on Morphological Features 2665 Xiangzeng Kong, Yaxin Bi, and David H. Glass Learning Multi-level Local Phase Relationship for Single Image Resolution Enhancement 2671 Saibabu Arigela, Vijayan K. Asari, and Maher B. Qumsiyeh 
xliii 


Feature Selection by Iterative Block Addition and Block Deletion 2677 Shigeo Abe SMC: Human-Machine - HM-08 Development of Humanoid Robot Simulator for Gait Learning by Using Particle Swarm Optimization 2683 Ping-Huan Kuo, Ya-Fang Ho, Kai-Fan Lee, Li-Heng Tai, and Tzuu-Hseng S. Li Multi-view Facial Expression Recognition Using Parametric Kernel Eigenspace Method Based on Class Features 2689 Woo-han Yun, Dohyung Kim, Chankyu Park, and Jaehong Kim Automatic Realtime User Performance-Driven Avatar Animation 2694 Stephanie Behrens, Ayoub Al-Hamadi, Eicke Redweik, and Robert Niese Advanced Human Affect Visualization 2700 Isabelle Hupont, Sandra Baldassarri, Eva Cerezo, and Rafael Del-Hoyo Gestic-Based Human Machine Interface for Robot Control 2706 Michael Tornow, Ayoub Al-Hamadi, and Vinzenz Borrmann Human Control of Leader-Based Swarms 2712 Phillip Walker, Saman Amirpour Amraii, Michael Lewis, Nilanjan Chakraborty and Katia Sycara SMC: Systems Science - SYS-15 A Game-Theoretic Social Model for Multiagent Systems 2718 Wynn C. Stirling A Distributed and Automatic Negotiation Protocol for Resource Allocation in the Management of Traffic Accidents 2724 M. Prades Farron, Luis A. Garcia, Vicente R. Tomas, and M. Capdevila Applicability of Bio-inspired and Graph-Theoretic Algorithms for the Design of Complex Fault-Tolerant Graphs 2730 Matthias Becker, Florian Schmidt, and Helena Szczerbicka Analysis of Fuzzy Agents Interactions and Fuzzy Agents Roles within a Collaborative Design Platform 2735 Alain-JÈrÙme FougÈres and Egon Ostrosi Requester vs. Helper-Initiated Protocols for Mutual Assistance in Agent Teamwork 2741 Narek Nalbandyan, Jernej Polajnar, Denish Mumbaiwala, Desanka Polajnar and Omid Alemi 
xliv 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-16 Energetically Optimal Gait Transition Velocities of a Quadruped Robot 2747 Iris Shmue and Raziel Riemer Cluster Synchronization of Predator Prey Robots 2753 Sumona Mukhopadhyay and Henry Leung Matrix Transfer Protocol a Unified Communication Framework for Distributed Modules in Cognitive Robotics 2759 Gerd-J¸rgen Giefing INHA: Localization of Mobile Robots Based on Feature Matching with a Single Camera 2765 Jaehong Lee, Xuenan Cui, Seungjun Lee, Hakil Kim, and Hyoungrae Kim A Tabletop Objects Observation Method from Mobile Robot Using Kinect Sensor 2771 Takuro Egawa, Ippei Samejima, Yuma Nihei, Satoshi Kagami and Hiroshi Mizoguchi Path Planning for Mobile Robots Based on Improved Ant Colony Optimization 2777 Chen-Chien Hsu, Ru-Yu Hou, and Wei-Yen Wang Collaborative Manufacturing and Supply Chains - H15-01 A Review of Complex Systems Technologies for Supply Chain Risk Management 2783 LI Zhengping, Tan Puay Siew, Yee Qi Ming Gabriel, Nguyen Quoc Chinh Ong Yew Soon, and Chen Xianshun A Novel Two-Level Genetic Algorithm for Integrated Process Planning and Scheduling 2790 Liang Wan, Xinyu Li, Liang Gao, Xiaoyu Wen, and Wenwen Wang Application of Interval Theory and Genetic Algorithm for Uncertain Integrated Process Planning and Scheduling 2796 Wenwen Wang, Xinyu Li, Liang Gao, Xiaoyu Wen, and Liang Wan Integrated Iterated Local Search for the Permutation Flowshop Problem with Tardiness Minimization 2802 Tian Chen and Xiaoping Li Shuffled Frog Leaping Algorithm for a Bi-objective No-Idle Permutation Flow Shop 2808 Yamin Wang and Xiaoping Li MapReduce Based Method for Big Data Semantic Clustering 2814 Jie Yang and Xiaoping Li 
xlv 


Learning-Assisted Intelligent Scheduling System 2820 Ana Madureira, Jo„o Paulo Pereira, and Ivo Pereira Iterative Combinatorial Auction for Carrier Collaboration in Logistics Services 2826 Hamidreza Mehrizi and Chun Wang Computational Awareness - H04-01 Induction of High Performance Neural Networks Based on Decision Boundary Making 2831 Yuya Kaneda, Qiangfu Zhao, Yong Liu, and Neil Y. Yen Feature Point Detection in Image Morphing Based Steganography 2837 Qiangfu Zhao, Yutaro Minakawa, Yong Liu, and Neil Y. Yen Computational Awareness in a Tactile-Responsive Humanoid Robot Comedian 2843 Paul Kaefer, Kevin Germino, Dustin Venske, and Andrew B. Williams A Change Detection Method of Arguing Points by Factor Analysis for Case Method Support 2849 Masaki Samejima and Keiichi Hamada Facebook Watchdog: A Research Agenda for Detecting Online Grooming and Bullying Activities 2854 Marlies Rybnicek, Rainer Poisel, and Simon Tjoa Agent-Based Simulation for Investigating Signaling Effects in Markets with Asymmetric Information 2860 Tadahiko Murata and Du Nisuo Explore New Eye Tracking and Gaze Locating Methods 2866 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, Joe Eyles, and Honghai Liu Computational Intelligence for Ubiquitous and Pervasive Computing - C08-01 An Interval Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based System for Customised Knowledge Delivery within Pervasive E-Learning Platforms 2872 Khalid Almohammadi and Hani Hagras A Big Bang-Big Crunch Optimization for a Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based Human Behaviour Recognition System in Intelligent Environments 2880 Bo Yao, Hani Hagras, Daniyal Alghazzawi, and Mohammed J. Alhaddad A Computing with Words Framework for Ambient Intelligence 2887 Aysenur Bilgin, Hani Hagras, Areej Malibari, Daniyal Alghazzawi and J. Mohammed 
xlvi 


Social Feedback in Display Ecosystems 2893 Bernhard Anzengruber, Gabriella Castelli, Alberto Rosi, Alois Ferscha and Franco Zambonelli Improved Semantic-Based Human Interaction Understanding Using Context-Based Knowledge 2899 Kamrad Khoshhal Roudposhti and Jorge Dias A Brief Introduction to Classification for Smart Grid 2905 Chun-Wei Tsai, Alexander Pelov, Ming-Chao Chiang, Chu-Sing Yang and Tzung-Pei Hong Recognizing Human Actions by a Bag of Visual Words 2910 Pasquale Foggia, Gennaro Percannella, Alessia Saggese, and Mario Vento A Novel Two-Layer Hierarchical Differential Evolution Algorithm for Global Optimization 2916 Yinzhi Zhou, Xinyu Li, and Liang Gao Innovations in Intelligent Computation and Applications C15-01 Facial Skin Beautification Using Region-Aware Mask 2922 Lingyu Liang and Lianwen Jin Conversation System Based on Computational Intelligence for Robot Partner Using Smart Phone 2927 Jinseok Woo and Naoyuki Kubota Mining Sequential Purchasing Behaviors from Customer Transaction Databases 2933 Show-Jane Yen, Jia-Yuan Gu, and Yue-Shi Lee Student Engagement Modeling Using Bayesian Networks 2939 Choo-Yee Ting, Wei-Nam Cheah, and Chiung Ching Ho Uniform Cellular Automata Linear Rules for Edge Detection 2945 Selman Uguz, Ugur Sahin, and Ferat Sahin Intelligent Network Computing and Applications - C07-01 Dealing with Unfair Ratings 2951 Xinfeng Ye Network Information Flow Control: Proof of Concept 2957 Alwaleed Alghothami and Florian Kammuller Homogeneity Based Blind Noisy Image Quality Assessment 2963 Xiaotong Huang, Li Chen, Jing Tian, Xiaolong Zhang, and Xiaowei Fu 
xlvii 


Performance Evaluation of Self-Configured Two-Tier Heterogeneous Cellular Networks 2968 Nien-Tsu Chou, Shih-Hao Lin, Shin-Ming Cheng, and Shih-Hao Chang Metasynthesis and Complex Systems - S09-02 A Computational Study for Feature Selection on Customer Credit Evaluation 2973 Jun Huang, Haibo Wang, Wei Wang, and Zhibin Xiong Distribution of Node Characteristics in Transfractal Network Systems and Additive Scale Invariance 2979 Ying Tan, Hong Luo, and Shou-Li Peng The Decision of Price Risk of Portfolio in Inventory Financing 2985 Juan He, Jian Wang, and Xianglin Jiang A Consensus Model for Multiple Attribute Group Decision Making Problems Based on Interval Fuzzy Number 2991 Zhiying LV, Tianmin Huang, Liwei Zheng, and Ying Liang SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-17 Topology Preserving Feature Extraction with Multiswarm Optimization 2997 Thomas A. Runkler and James C. Bezdek Sparse Logistic Discriminant Analysis 3003 Takio Kurita, Kenji Watanabe, and Akinori Hidaka Discriminant Multi-component Face Analysis 3009 Hongli Liu, Weifeng Liu, Liping Dong, and Yanjiang Wang A Hidden Markov Model with Abnormal States for Detecting Stock Price Manipulation 3014 Yi Cao, Yuhua Li, Sonya Coleman, Ammar Belatreche, and T.M. McGinnity Novelty Detection Using Level Set Methods with Adaptive Boundaries 3020 Xuemei Ding, Yuhua Li, Ammar Belatreche, and Liam P. Maguire Automatic Crack Detection and Segmentation Using a Hybrid Algorithm for Road Distress Analysis 3026 Jinshan Tang and Yanliang Gu A Robust Two Signature Descriptor with Orientation Bins and Colour Codes for Enhanced Feature Matching 3031 Saad Ali Imran and Nabil Aouf Structured Sparse Representation Visual Tracking Using Bayes Classifier 3036 Weiguang Li, Yueen Hou, Aiqiong Rong, Sibo Quan, Huidong Lou and Aihua Huang 
xlviii 


SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-18 Some Consequences of the Linear Approximation of the Stochastic Context-Free Calculus 3042 Marco Carpentier On Identifying Authors with Style 3048 Lauren M. Stuart, Saltanat Tazhibayeva, Amy R. Wagoner, and Julia M. Taylor Pairwise Learning to Rank for Search Query Correction 3054 Antonin Novak and Jan Sedivy A Hash Table Approach for Large Scale Perceptual Anchoring 3060 Andreas Persson and Amy Loutfi Clause Anaphora Resolution for Japanese Demonstrative Determiner Based on Semantic Similarity between Different Part-of-Speech 3067 Yukino Ikegami, Ernesto Damiani, Akihiro Urano, and Setsuo Tsuruta Path Model Integration Method for Structural Equation Modeling by OR and Probability Concepts 3073 Rikuto Kunimoto and Ryosuke Saga Recognising User Identity in Twitter Social Networks via Text Mining 3079 Sara Keretna, Ahmad Hossny, and Doug Creighton SMC: Human-Machine - HM-09 Operability Improvement for Myoelectric Prosthetic Hand Using Brain Machine Interface Identification of Eight Forearm Motions Based on Myoelectric Potential 3083 Kana Kuniyasu and Jun Ishikawa Towards the Classification of Single-Trial Event-Related Potentials Using Adapted Wavelets and Particle Swarm Optimization 3089 Alejandro Gonzalez, Isao Nambu, Haruhide Hokari, Masahiro Iwahashi and Yasuhiro Wada Development of a System for Analyzing Common Laceration Generation Mechanisms 3095 Hideyuki Myouse, Tachio Takano, Koji Kitamura, Yoshinori Koizumi Yoshifumi Nishida, and Hiroshi Mizoguchi A Hand Grasped Object Segmentation Method Using Kinect Sensor and Body Dimension Database 3102 Naruyuki Hisatsuka, Ippei Samejima, Satoshi Kagami, Makiko Kouchi and Hiroshi Takemura 
xlvix 


On Modeling Human Learning in Sequential Games with Delayed Reinforcements 3108 Roi Ceren, Prashant Doshi, Matthew Meisel, Adam Goodie, and Dan Hall Analysis of Human Attention toward Context-related Images for Understanding Visual Information Processing 3114 Joo Yun Han, Yu-Bu Lee, and Sukhan Lee Ship Detection and Segmentation Using Image Correlation 3119 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, and Honghai Liu Hand Movement Trajectory Reconstruction from EEG for Brain-Computer Interface Systems 3127 Neethu Robinson, A.P. Vinod, and Cuntai Guan SMC: Systems Science - SYS-17 Model Selection with BIC and ICL Criteria for Binned Data Clustering by Bin-EM-CEM Algorithms 3133 Hani Hamdan and Jingwen Wu Vehicle Detection from UAVs by Using SIFT with Implicit Shape Model 3139 Xiyan Chen and Qinggang Meng Short-Term Anxiety Recognition Induced by Virtual Reality Exposure for Phobic People 3145 Wahida Handouzi, Choubeila Maaoui, Alain Pruski, Abdelhak Moussaoui and Yamina Bendiouis Dataset Shift Detection in Non-stationary Environments Using EWMA Charts 3151 Haider Raza, Girijesh Prasad, and Yuhua Li Intensity Rank Estimation of Facial Expressions Based on a Single Image 3157 Kuang-Yu Chang, Chu-Song Chen, and Yi-Ping Hung Integration of Online Laboratories - LMS via SCORM 3163 Ildefonso Ruano-Ruano, Juan GÛmez-Ortega, Javier G·mez-GarcÌa and Elisabet Estevez-EstÈvez Motor Inverter Fault Diagnosis Using Wavelets Neural Networks 3168 Sheng Qiang and Yingying Li Online Optimal DLQR-DFIG Control System Design via Recursive Least-Square Approach and State Heuristic Dynamic Programming for Approximate Solution of the HJB Equation 3174 Jo„o Viana da Fonseca Neto, Ernesto F.M. Ferreira, and Patricia H. Moraes Rego 
l 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-18 Unsupervised Adaptive Non-intrusive Load Monitoring System 3180 Po-An Chou and Ray-I Chang Learning Customer Behaviour under Real-Time Pricing in the Smart Grid 3186 Fan-Lin Meng, Xiao-Jun Zeng, and Qian Ma Bayesian Model Averaging of Load Demand Forecasts from Neural Network Models 3192 Saima Hassan, Abbas Khosravi, and Jafreezal Jaafar A Energy-Preserving Model for Wireless Sensors Networks Based on Heuristic Self-Organized Routing 3198 Aurelio La Corte, Alessandro Di Stefano, Marialisa Scat·, and Marco Leotta Design and Application of Smart Metering System for Micro Grid 3203 Ringo P.K. Lee, Loi Lei Lai, and Chun Sing Lai Discrete Time Modeling and Control of DC/DC Switching Converter for Solar Energy Systems 3208 S. Kazemlou and S. Mehraeen Variance-Covariance Based Weighing for Neural Network Ensembles 3214 Saima Hassan, Abbas Khosravi, and Jafreezal Jaafar Novel Dynamic Control of Power Systems with Penetration of Renewable Energy Sources in Multi-generator Framework 3220 S. Kazemlou and S. Mehraeen Intelligent Learning in Control Systems - S02-02 A Type-2 Fuzzy Cascade Control Architecture for Mobile Robots 3226 Tufan Kumbasar and Hani Hagras Adaptive Control System Based on Self-Organizing Wavelet Neural Network with H8 Tracking Performance Compensator 3232 Masanao Obayashi, Takuya Kamikariya, Shogo Uchiyama, Shogo Watada Takashi Kuremoto, Shingo Mabu, and Kunikazu Kobayashi Estimators Based on Non-squares Loss Functions to Approximate HJB-Riccati Equation Solution for DLQR Design via HDP 3238 Jonathan A. Queiroz, PatrÌcia H.M. Rego, Jo„o V.F. Neto, Cristiane da Silva Ewaldo Santana, and Allan Kardec Barros 
li 


Issues in EHR Representation, Integration, and Analysis S18-01 An Ontology for Clinical Trial Data Integration 3244 Ratnesh Sahay, Dimitrios Ntalaperas, Eleni Kamateri, Panagiotis Hasapis Oya Deniz Beyan, Marie-Pierre F. Strippoli, Christiana A. Demetriou Thomai Gklarou-Stavropoulou, Matthias Brochhausen Konstantinos Tarabanis, Thanassis Bouras, David Tian, Aristos Aristodimoux Athos Antoniadesx, Christos Georgousopoulos, Manfred Hauswirth and Stefan Decker Advancing Patient Record Safety and EHR Semantic Interoperability 3251 Konstantinos Perakis, Thanasis Bouras, Dimitris Ntalaperas Panagiotis Hasapis, Christos Georgousopoulos, Ratnesh Sahay Oya Deniz Beyan, Cristi Potlog, and Daniela Usurelu A Bayesian Association Rule Mining Algorithm 3258 David Tian, Ann Gledson, Athos Antoniades, Aristo Aristodimou Ntalaperas Dimitrios, Ratnesh Sahay, Jianxin Pan, Stavros Stivaros Goran Nenadic, Xiao-jun Zeng, and John Keane Understanding Low Back Pain Using Fuzzy Association Rule Mining 3265 Maybin K. Muyeba, Sandra Lewis, Liangxiu Han, and John A. Keane Perception: Part B - Perceptual Factors in Graphics - H08-01 Perceptual Quality Metrics for 3D Meshes: Towards an Optimal Multi-attribute Computational Model 3271 Guillaume LavouÈ, Irene Cheng, and Anup Basu Evaluation of 3D Model Segmentation Techniques Based on Animal Anatomy 3277 Nasim Hajari, Irene Cheng, Anup Basu, and Guillaume Lavou Keynote D Cybernetic Intelligent Systems - S19-01 Gender Classification Using One Half Face and Feature Selection Based on Mutual Information 3282 Juan E. Tapia and Claudio A. Perez User Modelling for Interactive Optimization Using Neural Network 3288 Vidya Bhushan Singh, Snehasis Mukhopadhyay, and Meghna Babbar-Sebens Software Programmed by Artificial Agents toward an Autonomous Development Process for Code Generation 3294 Carlos C. Insaurralde 
lii 


Pattern Detection Using a New Haralick Quaternion Color Extraction Model and Support Vector Machine Classifier 3300 Claudio A. Perez, Carlos F. Navarro, Daniel A. Schulz, Jacob A. Saravia and Carlos M. Aravena An Approach to the Synthesis of Humanoid Robot Dance Using Non-interactive Evolutionary Techniques 3305 Malachy Eaton Visual Servoing of a Quadrotor UAV for the Tracking of Linear Structured Infrastructures 3310 O. Araar and N. Aouf Acoustic Detection and Localization Enhanced by Video Analysis 3316 Riad Azzam and Nabil Aouf Human-Centered Transportation Systems - H05-01 Study of Induction and Estimation Method for Driver's Intention by Using a Driving Simulator 3322 Takashi Imamura, Tomonari Ogi, Zhong Zhang, and Tetsuo Miyake A Personalised Online Travel Time Prediction Model 3327 Zhenchen Wang and Stefan Poslad Availability of a Ship Propulsion System under Aging Effects 3333 Nobuo Mitomom, Tadatsugi Okazaki, and Tunc Aldemir Questionnaire Survey for Adapting Common Performance Conditions to Marine Accidents 3339 Kenji Yoshimura, Chihiro Nishizaki, Han Chuanfeng, Han Chuanfeng and Han Chuanfeng Research on the Implementation of Port State Control Based on Broad Sense Concept in the Integrated Management of Foreign Vessel 3344 Junjie Fu and Chi Zhou A Study on Evaluation of Safe Driving Using an In-Vehicle Data Camera 3348 Ryo Ishizaki and Masakazu Morimoto Human-Machine Interface and Haptics - H02-01 Myoelectric Controlled Prosthetic Hand with Continuous Force-Feedback Mechanism 3354 Nanao Akimichi, Kiyoshi Eguchi, and Kenji Suzuki Classifier Transferability in the Detection of Error Related Potentials from Observation to Interaction 3360 Su Kyoung Kim and Elsa Andrea Kirchner 
liii 


Suitability of Two Models of Torque Feedback for Performing a Robot-Assisted Circular Tracing Task 3366 Fernando Trejo and Yaoping Hu Experimental Studies of a Novel 6-DOF Haptic Device 3372 Zhouming Tang and Shahram Payandeh Design and Evaluation of Partial Weight-Bearing Sensor and Haptic Feedback System for Lower-Extremity Orthopedic Patients 3378 Levi DeLuke, Ying \(Jean Richard E. Fan, and John B. Morrell Producing Method of Softness Sensation by Device Vibration 3384 Atsutoshi Ikeda, Takahiro Suzuki, Jun Takamatsu, and Tsukasa Ogasawara Personalising Live Sports Video Zooming 3390 Zhenchen Wang and Stefan Poslad Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-01 Ambulatory Brain-Computer Interface in Outdoor Environment toward Indexing of Lifelog 3396 Hideaki Touyama and Kazuya Maeda On Determination of Ophthalmic Examinations Using Support Vector Machines 3402 Naotake Kamiura, Naoto Yamada, Ayumu Saitoh, Teijiro Isokawa Nobuyuki Matsui, and Hitoshi Tabuchi Evaluation of Autonomy Walk by Dynamic Foot Pressure Analysis 3408 Takahiro Takeda, Yoshitada Sakai, and Yutaka Hata Adaptive Human-Robot Interaction Based on Lag-Lead Modelling for Home-Based Stroke Rehabilitation: Novel Mechanisms for Assessment and Performance Based Adaptation of Task Difficulty 3414 Angelo Basteris and Farshid Amirabdollahian Ultrasonic Frequency Response Analysis for Quantitative Measurements in Bone Marrow Stromal Cells 3420 Naomi Yagi, Kei Kuramoto, Syoji Kobashi, Yutaka Hata, and Tomomoto Ishikawa Mining Clinical Pathway Candidates from Order History Based on the Clustering of Order Sequences 3425 Shoji Hirano and Shusaku Tsumoto 
liv 


Proactive Health Care Systems, Methodologies and Applications - H06-01 Applying Gaming Principles to Virtual Environments for Upper Extremity Therapy Games 3430 Mason E. Nixon and Ayanna M. Howard Development of an Autonomous Facial-Expression Monitoring System for Safe Work Environments 3436 Masakazu Arima, Shotaro Kii, and Kousuke Murata Using Type-2 Fuzzy Models to Detect Fall Incidents and Abnormal Gaits among Elderly 3441 Yo-Ping Huang, Wei-Heng Liu, Szu-Ying Chen, and Frode Eika Sandnes A Computer Supported Memory Aid for Copying Prescription Parameters into Medical Equipment Based on Linguistic Phrases 3447 Frode Eika Sandnes and Yo-Ping Huang Depression Diagnosis Based on Ontologies and Bayesian Networks 3452 Yue-Shan Chang, Wan-Chun Hung, and Tong-Ying Juang Towards ROS Based Multi-robot Architecture for Ambient Assisted Living 3458 Ruijiao Li, Mohammadreza A. Oskoei, and Huosheng Hu SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-19 SCGaz - A Synthetic Formal Context Generator with Density Control for Test and Evaluation of FCA Algorithms 3464 Andrei Rimsa, Mark A.J. Song, and Luis E. Z·rate An Intelligent Tutoring System for Case-Based E-Learning on Project Management 3471 Minami Otsuki and Masaki Samejima A Time-Series-Based Technology Intelligence Framework by Trend Prediction Functionality 3477 Hongshu Chen, Guangquan Zhang, and Jie Lu A Fuzzy Tree Similarity Measure and Its Application in Telecom Product Recommendation 3483 Dianshuang Wu, Guangquan Zhang, and Jie Lu Fuzzy Decision Support System for the Determination of the Set Points of Relevant Variables in the Virgin Olive Oil Elaboration Process 3489 P. Cano Marchal, D. MartÌnez Gila, J. G·mez Garcia, and J. GÛmez Ortega A Hierarchical Human Activity Recognition Framework Based on Automated Reasoning 3495 Shuwei Chen, Jun Liu, Hui Wang, and Juan Carlos Augusto 
lv 


Entity Conceptualization and Understanding Based on Web-Scale Knowledge Bases 3500 Yi Zeng, Hongwei Hao, and Bo Xu SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-20 Sequential Extraction by Using Two Types of Crisp Possibilistic Clustering 3505 Yukihiro Hamasuna and Yasunori Endo Comparative Evaluation of Batch and Online Distance Metric Learning Approaches Based on Margin Maximization 3511 Adri·n PÈrez-Suay, Francesc J. Ferri, Miguel Arevalillo-Herr·ez and Jes˙s V. Albert Gamification of the Optimization Problem and Multi-point Type Optimization Methods 3516 Takashi Okamoto and Eitaro Aiyoshi Quantum Annealing Algorithm for Vehicle Scheduling 3523 Alan Crispin and Alex Syrichas Chaotic Optimization Method without Initial Sampling Parameter Tuning Empirical Comparisons of Two Approaches in Various Problems 3529 Takashi Okamoto and Hironori Hirata Multi-objective Integrated Optimization Using Optimization, Modeling and Simulation 3537 Hirotaka Katayama, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda Combinatorial Optimization Method Based on Hierarchical Structure in Solution Space 3543 Hiroki Ochiai, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda SMC: Human-Machine - HM-10 Sensory Perception through an Electro-tactile Stimulus Array on the Tongue 3549 A. Jeffs and K. Warwick Extension Force Control Considering Contact with an Object Using a Wearable Robot for an Upper Limb 3555 Keishi Yonezawa, Naoto Mizutani, Norihiko Kato, Keníichi Yano, Takaakl Aoki Yasuyukl Kobayashi, and Yutaka Nishimoto Effect of Visual Cues on Line Drawing Performance 3561 Tetsuyou Watanabe Light-Emitting Device for Supporting Auditory Awareness of Hearing-Impaired People during Group Conversations 3567 Yoshihiro Kaneko, Inho Chung, and Kenji Suzuki 
lvi 


Fallen Person Detection for Mobile Robots Using 3D Depth Data 3573 Michael Volkhardt, Friederike Schneemann, and Horst-Michael Gross Muscle Synergy Analysis of Human Standing-Up Motion with Different Chair Heights and Different Motion Speeds 3579 Qi An, Yuki Ishikawa, Junki Nakagawa, Hiroyuki Oka, Hiroshi Yamakawa Atsushi Yamashita, and Hajime Asama Semantic Indoor Navigation with a Blind-User Oriented Augmented Reality 3585 Samleo L. Joseph, Xiaochen Zhang, Ivan Dryanovski, Jizhong Xiao, Chucai Yi and YingLi Tian SMC: Systems Science - SYS-19 Robust Discriminator between Bicycle Rider and Pusher Based on CHLAC of Leg Movement from Video Sequence 3592 Yuki Ishii, Hiroshi Hisahara, Masahito Ota, Takeki Ogitsu, Hiroshi Takemura and Hiroshi Mizoguchi A Train Load Planning Optimization Model for Intermodal Freight Transport Terminals: A Case Study 3597 Mariagrazia Dotolia, Nicola Epicocoa, Marco Falagariob, Domenico Palmaa and Biagio Turchianoa Parking Space Detection Using Textural Descriptors 3603 Paulo Almeida, Luiz S. Oliveira, Eunelson Silva Jr., Alceu Britto Jr and Alessandro Koerich Dynamic Management of Parking Spaces in Road Rest Areas with Automatic Negotiation 3609 M. Capdevila, Vicente R. Tomas, Luis A. Garca, and M. Prades Farron Tracking Multiple Moving Vehicles in Low Frame Rate Videos Based on Trajectory Information 3615 Giyoung Lee, Rammohan Mallipeddi, and Minho Lee Intelligent Traffic Light Control of Isolated Intersections Using Machine Learning Methods 3621 Sahar Araghi, Abbas Khosravi, Michael Johnstone, and Doug Creighton Visibility Enhancement of Single Hazy Images Using Hybrid Dark Channel Prior 3627 Yi-Jui Cheng, Bo-Hao Chen, Shih-Chia Huang, Sy-Yen Kuo, Andrey Kopylov Oleg Seredint, Leonid Mestetskiy, Boris Vishnyakov, Yury Vizilter Oleg Vygolov, Chia-Ruei Lian, and Chi-Ting Wu 
lvii 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-20 Component-Based Modelling for Generating Robotic Arm Applications Running under OROCOS Middleware 3633 A. Sanchez Garcia, E. Estevez, J. Gomez Ortega, and J. Gamez Garcia Predictive Modeling of Time-Varying Environmental Information for Path Planning 3639 Woojin Kim, Hyeonbeom Lee, and H. Jin Kim Kelpie: A ROS-Based Multi-robot Simulator for Water Surface and Aerial Vehicles 3645 Ricardo MendonÁa, Pedro Santana, Francisco Marques, AndrÈ LourenÁo Jo„o Silva, and JosÈ Barata Improved Monte Carlo Localization with Robust Orientation Estimation for Mobile Robots 3651 Chen-Chien Hsu, Chia-Jui Kuo, and Wen-Chung Kao Visual Predictive Control of Robot Manipulators Using a 3D ToF Camera 3657 S. Satorres MartÌnez, J. GÛmez Ortega, J. G·mez GarcÌa, A. S·nchez GarcÌa and J. de la Casa C·rdenas Reducing the Computational Cost of a Monte Carlo Based Planning Algorithm 3663 Hao Wang and Simon J. Julier A Semantic-Similarity-Based Method for Object Description and Clustering 3669 Jing Xu, Shogo Okada, and Katsumi Nitta Driver-Vehicle Systems, Modeling, Dynamics, and Control H01-01 A Subjective Force Perception Model of Humans and Its Application to a Steering Operation System of a Vehicle 3675 Kazuhiro Takemura, Naoki Yamada, Atsuhide Kishi, Kazuo Nishikawa Takahide Nouzawa, Chang Li, Yuichi Kurita, and Toshio Tsuji Driver Behaviour Analysis through Simulation 3681 Andreas Gregoriades, Christos Florides, Vicky Papadopoulou Lesta and Maria Pampaka Biomechanical and Psychophysical Evaluation of Operating Loads in Vehicular Driving 3687 Yoshiyuki Tanaka, Mitsuhiro Narusue, Hiroaki Matsubara, Toshio Tsuji Tomonori Ohtsubo, Hiroshi Okiyama, Matsuhiro Tanaka, and Shunichiro Miyawaki Driver Distraction Assessment Using Driver Modeling 3693 Peter Hermannst‰dter and Bin Yang 
lviii 


Experiment Design for Measuring Driver Reaction Time in Driving Situation 3699 Zhong Zhang, Yuki Asakawa, Takashi Imamura, and Tetsuo Miyake Modeling Driver Steering Control Based on Stochastic Model Predictive Control 3704 Ting Qu, Hong Chen, Yan Ji, Hongyan Guo, and Dongpu Cao Quantitative Driving Style Estimation for Energy-Oriented Applications in Road Vehicles 3710 Andrea Corti, Carlo Ongini, Mara Tanelli, and Sergio M. Savaresi Human-Machine Interface and Haptics - H02-02 Cepstrum Based Unsupervised Spike Classification 3716 Sherif Haggag, Shady Mohamed, Asim Bhatti, Nong Gu, Hailing Zhou and Saeid Nahavandi Fast Volumetric Reconstruction of Human Body through Superquadrics 3721 I. Infantino, F. Vella, G. Martino, and S. Gaglio A User Study with GUIs Tailored for Smartphones and Tablet PCs 3727 David Raneburger, Roman Popp, David Alonso-RÌos, Hermann Kaind and J¸rgen Falb Estimation Method of Clothes Size for Virtual Fitting Room with Kinect Sensor 3733 Reizo Nakamura, Masaki Izutsu, and Shosiro Hatakeyama Assessing Goal-Directed Three-Dimensional Movements in a Virtual Reality Block Design Task 3739 Wooram Jeon, Michael Clamann, David B. Kaber, and Nancy J. Currie Use of Foot for Direct Interactions with Entities of a Virtual Environment Displayed on a Mobile Device 3745 Bob-Antoine J. Menelas and Martin J-D. Otis An Investigation into Thumb Rotation Using High Density Surface Electromyography of Extrinsic Hand Muscles 3751 A. Aranceta-Garza, H. Lakany, and B.A. Conway Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-02 Evaluation of Arterial Stiffness during the Flow-Mediated Dilation Test 3756 Harutoyo Hirano, Daisuke Kiharat, Hiroki Hirano, Yuichi Kurita, Teiji Ukawa Tsuneo Takayanagi, Haruka Morimoto, Ryuji Nakamura, Noboru Saeki Yukihito Higashi, Masashi Kawamoto, Masao Yoshizumi, and Toshio Tsuji An Ultrasonic Imaging for Seminiferous Tubules Beyond the Wavelength Limit 3760 Koki Tsukuda, Tomomoto Ishikawa, and Yutaka Hata 
lvix 


Mobile Patient Monitoring for the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit Work Domain Analysis and Rapid Prototyping Results 3765 Matthias Geˆrges, Catherine M. Burns, Plinio P. Morita, and J. Mark Ansermino Fabrication of Reflectance Pulse Oximeter with Ring-Shaped Photodiode 3771 Masahide Kano, Yota Sato, Kensuke Kanda, Takayuki Fujita Kazusuke Maenaka, Kazuo Kasai, and Kohei Higuchi Toward Personalized Cognitive Training for Elderly with Mild Cognitive Impairment: Cerebral Blood Flow Activation during Verbally-Based Cognitive Activities 3775 Shohei Kato, Hidetoshi Endo, Risako Nagata, Takuto Sakuma and Keita Watanabe Ultra Low Power ASIC for R-R Interval Extraction on Wearable Health Monitoring System 3780 Takayuki Fujita, Tomoya Tanaka, Koji Sonoda, Kensuke Kanda and Kazusuke Maenaka Unsupervised Classification of Cross-Section Area of Spinal Canal 3784 Chao-Cheng Wu, Guan-Sheng Huang, Yi-Ling Chen, Yung-Hsiao Chiang and Jiannher Lin Proactive Health Care Systems, Methodologies and Applications - H06-02 Ejecting Outliers to Enhance Robustness of Fuzzy Cluster Ensemble 3790 Li-Jen Kao and Yo-Ping Huang Mobile Care Robot Localization and Guidance Using Image Structure Map 3796 Chuan-Pin Lu, Ta-Hua Yeh, and Wei Huang Modeling and Performance Analysis of Route-Over and Mesh-Under Routing Schemes in 6LoWPAN 3802 Tsung-Han Lee, Hung-Shiou Chiang, Lin-Huang Chang, Ming-Chun Hsieh Chih-Hao Wen, and Kian Meng Yap An Acceleration Feature-Based Gesture Recognition System 3807 Hung-Chi Chu, Sheng-Chih Huang, and Jiun-Jiam Liaw Energy-Efficient Oriented Routing Algorithm in Wireless Sensor Networks 3813 Lin-Huang Chang, Tsung-Han Lee, Shu-Jan Chen, and Cheng-Yen Liao A Body-Sensed Motor Assessment System for Stroke Upper-Limb Rehabilitation: A Preliminary Study 3819 Chao-Hsien Lee, Yu-Hsien Chiu, Hao-Yun Kao, I-Te Chen, I-Nong Lee Wen-Hsien Ho, Liang-Yu Chen, Pin-Han Huang, Sin-Hao Chen, Chih-Yun Liu and Hsiao-Yan Lu 
lx 


Recognition of the Ambulance Siren Sound in Taiwan by the Longest Common Subsequence 3825 Jiun-Jian Liaw, Wen-Shen Wang, Hung-Chi Chu, Meng-Sian Huang and Chuan-Pin Lu Self-Organization and Emergence in Distributed Manufacturing Systems - S08-01 Self-Organized Holonic Multi-agent Manufacturing System: The Behavioural Perspective 3829 JosÈ Barbosa, Paulo Leit„o, Emmanuel Adam, and Damien Trentesaux Bio-inspired Self-Organising Methodologies for Production Emergence 3835 Jo„o Dias Ferreira, Luis Ribeiro, Mauro Onori, and JosÈ Barata Multiagent Mechatronic Systems with Simulation on the Loop 3842 Luis Ribeiro, JosÈ Barata, Dean Whittingslow, and Roland Krain Control System Software Design Methodology for Automotive Industry 3848 Giovanni Di Orio, JosÈ Barata, Carlos Sousa, and Luis Flores Prospection of Methods to Support Design and Configuration of Self-Organizing Mechatronic Systems 3854 P. Neves, J. Ferreira, M. Onori, L. Ribeiro, and J. Barata An Axiomatic Design Approach to Production Path Enumeration in Reconfigurable Manufacturing Systems 3862 Amro M. Farid SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-21 Human Movement Analysis: Extension of the F-Statistic to Time Series Using HMM 3870 Michelle Karg, Wolfgang Seiber, Jesse Hoey, and Dana Kulic A Framework for Automatic Text Generation of Trends in Physiological Time Series Data 3876 Hadi Banaee, Mobyen Uddin Ahmed, and Amy Loutfi A Preliminary Study of Interaction Effects on Brain Activity during Cooperative Work Using fNIRS 3882 Tomoyuki Hiroyasu, Mao Goto, Utako Yamamoto, and Hisatake Yokouchi Effect of Texture Features in Computer Aided Diagnosis of Pulmonary Nodules in Low-Dose Computed Tomography 3887 Henry Krewer, Benjamin Geiger, Lawrence O. Hall, Dmitry B. Goldgof Yuhua Gu, Melvyn Tockman, and Robert J. Gillies The Cybernetics of Human Cognition and Adult Language Learning 3892 Mir Azmath Ali and Narayana G.P.L. Mandaleeka 
lxi 


Automatic Design of a Novel Image Filter Based on the GA-EM Algorithm for Vein Shapes 3897 Koji Kashihara Spatial Cognition Degree of Development Classification Using Largest Lyapunov Exponents 3903 Guilherme Maron, Dante A.C. Barone, and Elias A. Ramos SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-22 A Stability Analysis Based Parameter Setting Method for Spiral Optimization 3909 Kenichi Tamura and Keiichiro Yasuda Adaptive Parameter Adjustment of Differential Evolution 3915 Ruren Ji, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda An Improvement in Classification Accuracy of Fuzzy Oriented Classifier Evolution 3921 Junji Otsuka and Tomoharu Nagao A New Partitioning Method for the IDS Method 3927 Yoshito Ozaki and Akira Utsumi Shadowed C-Means for Image Segmentation Using Local and Non-local Spatial Information 3933 Jing Zou, Long Chen, and C. L. Philip Chen Type-2 SIC Fuzzy Inference Models 3939 Hirosato Seki SMC: Human-Machine - HM-11 Game Poetry: Promotion of Poetry through a Game-Based Learning System 3944 Hsin-Yi Liang and Sherry Y. Chen Image-Based Rendering for Ink Painting 3950 Lingyu Liang and Lianwen Jin Personalization of Interactive Digital Media in Ubiquitous Educational Environments 3955 Rafael D. Ara˙jo, Taffarel Brant-Ribeiro, Renan G. Cattelan, Sandra A. de Amo and Hiran N.M. Ferreira Vibration-Induced Friction Control for Walkway Locomotion Interface 3961 Guillaume Millet, Martin J.-D. Otis, and Jeremy R. Cooperstock Qualitative Risk of Falling Assessment Based on Gait Abnormalities 3966 David Gagnon, Bob-Antoine J. Menelas, and Martin J.-D. Otis Role Analysis of Dominant and Non-dominant Hand in Daily Life 3972 Hiroshi Kousaka, Hiroshi Mizoguchi, Masahiro Yoshikawa, Hideyuki Tanaka and Yoshio Matsumoto 
lxii 


Classification of Trunk Motion for a Backbone Exoskeleton Using Inertial Data and Surface Electromyography 3978 Abhijit Kadrolkar and Frank Sup SMC: Systems Science - SYS-21 The Effect of Clustering-Based and Degree-Based Weighting on Robustness in Symmetrically Coupled Heterogeneous Interdependent Networks 3984 Yuzhuo Qiu Mixed Poisson Deterioration Model for Bridge Management 3989 Kengo Obama, Kiyoyuki Kaito, and Kiyoshi Kobayashi A System Architecture to Support Cost-Effective Transcription and Translation of Large Video Lecture Repositories 3994 Joan Albert Silvestre-Cerd‡, Alejandro PÈrez, Manuel JimÈnez, Carlos Turr Alfons Juan, and Jorge Civera Estimation of the Reflectance Distribution of Fallen Objects on Highways for Tunnel Lighting Management 4000 So Sakaguchi, Satoshi Hirakawa, Daijiro Mizutani, Kengo Obama and Kiyoyuki Kaito Background Subtraction Using Gaussian Mixture Model Enhanced by Hole Filling Algorithm \(GMMHF 4006 Adi Nurhadiyatna, Wisnu Jatmiko, Benny Hardjono, Ari Wibisono, Ibnu Sina and Petrus Mursanto Using Neuro-fuzzy Models to Benchmark Road Safety Management Systems 4012 Maris Sekar, Mohammad Moshirpour, Julian Serfontein, and Behrouz H. Far Image Based Automatic Road Surface Crack Detection for Achieving Smooth Driving on Deformed Roads 4018 Chinthaka Premachandra, H. Waruna, H. Premachandra and Chandana Dinesh Parape SMC: Systems Science - SYS-22 Coordinating the Collective Behavior of Swarm Robotics Systems Based on Incremental Evolution 4024 Kazuhiro Ohkura, Toshiyuki Yasuda, and Yoshiyuki Matsumura Mathematical Morphology Applied in Object Tracking on Position-Based Visual Servoing 4030 Diego Saqui, Fernando C. Sato, Edilson R.R. Kato, Emerson C. Pedrino and Roberto H. Tsunaki 
lxiii 


GRASPER: A Multisensory Based Manipulation System for Underwater Operations 4036 P.J. Sanz, A. PeÒalver, J. Sales, D. Fornas, J.J. Fern·ndez, J. PÈrez and J. Bernab Autonomous Robot Hitting Task Using Dynamical System Approach 4042 Farid Oubbati, Mathis Richter, and Gregor Schˆner Cross-Spectral Stereo Matching Based on Local Self-Similarities and Image Moments 4048 Tarek Mouats and Nabil Aouf The Representation of Weighted Action-Coupled Semantic Network and Spreading Activation Model for Improvisational Action 4054 Gi Hyun Lim, Il Hong Suh, and LuÌs Seabra Lopes Visual Search of an Object in Cluttered Environments for Robotic Errand Service 4060 Xi Chen and Sukhan Lee Simulation of Hardware Variations in Swarm Robots 4066 Beining Shang, Richard Crowder, and Klaus-Peter Zauner Cloud Computing - C14-01 A Game Theoretic Approach to Service Discovery and Selection 4072 Yi Chen, Bakh Khoussainov, and Xinfeng Ye EucaBomber: Experimental Evaluation of Availability in Eucalyptus Private Clouds 4080 Debora Souza, Rubens Matos, Jean Araujo, Vandi Alves, and Paulo Maciel Availability and Energy Consumption Analysis of Mobile Cloud Environments 4086 Danilo Oliveira, Jean Araujo, Rubens Matos, and Paulo Maciel Elasticity in Service Level Agreements 4092 Frank Schulz Stochastic Model Generation for Cloud Infrastructure Planning 4098 Erica Sousa, Paulo Maciel, Lais Medeiros, Fernando Lins, Eduardo Tavares and Erico Medeiros Private Cloud Cooperation Framework of E-Learning Environment for Disaster Recovery 4104 Satoshi Togawa and Kazuhide Kanenishi Comparative Analysis of Migration-Based Rejuvenation Schedules on Cloud Availability 4110 Matheus Melo, Jean Araujo, Rubens Matos, Julian Menezes, and Paulo Maciel 
lxiv 


Energy-Efficient Virtual Machine Management in Heterogeneous Environment Challenges, Approaches and Opportunities 4116 Mohammad Fozlul Haque Bhuiyan and Chun Wang Driver-Vehicle Systems, Modeling, Dynamics, and Control H01-02 Event-Based Control of Freeway Systems 4122 A. Ferrara S. Sacone and S. Siri Predictive Rollover Index Based on Frontal Road Geometry and On-Line Driver Information 4128 Liang-kuang Chen and Jian-min Huang Analysis of Brain Activity during VR-Based Driving Using Near-Infrared Spectroscopy 4134 Keiichi Watanuki, Kenta Hirayama, and Kazunori Kaede Eye Movement Detection for Assessing Driver Drowsiness by Electrooculography 4142 Parisa Ebrahim, Wolfgang Stolzmann, and Bin Yang A Real-Time Implementation of an MPC-Based Motion Cueing Strategy with Time-Varying Prediction 4149 Alessandro Beghi, Mattia Bruschetta, and Fabio Maran Defining "Critical Speed" in Driver-Vehicle Systems 4155 Craig West and Dongpu Cao Dynamic Trajectory Planning for Vehicle Autonomous Driving 4161 Sumin Zhang, Weiwen Deng, Qingrong Zhao, Hao Sun, and Bakhtiar Litkouhi Enhancing the Energy Efficiency of Fully Electric Vehicles via the Minimization of Motor Power Losses 4167 A. Pennycott, L. De Novellis, P. Gruber, A. Sorniotti, and T. Goggia Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-03 A Pattern Recognition Method for Automating Tactile Graphics Translation from Hand-Drawn Maps 4173 Jianjun Chen and Noboru Takagi Pupil Diameter Variation in Positive and Negative Emotions with Visual Stimulus 4179 Shuhei Kawai, Hironobu Takano, and Kiyomi Nakamura Haptics for Multi-fingered Palpation 4184 Min Li, Shan Luo, Lakmal D. Seneviratne, Thrish Nanayakkara Kaspar Althoefer, and Prokar Dasgupta 
lxv 


Evaluating Manual Palpation Trajectory Patterns in Tele-manipulation for Soft Tissue Examination 4190 Jelizaveta Konstantinova, Min Li, Vahid Aminzadeh, Kaspar Althoefer Thrishantha, and Prokar Dasgupta Human Tracking and Estimation under Occlusion Using Laser Range Scanner and Accelerometer 4196 Shogo Shibutani, Hiroki Tamura, and Koichi Tanno Accuracy of Voice Pitch Control in Singing Using Tactile Voice Pitch Feedback Display 4201 Masatsugu Sakajiri, Shigeki Miyoshi, Kenryu Nakamura, Satoshi Fukushima and Tohru Ifukube Fundamental Study on Tactile Cognition through Haptic Feedback Touchscreen 4207 Junji Onishi, Masatsugu Sakajiri, Takahiro Miurat, and Tsukasa Ono Motion Estimation Based on EMG and EEG Signals to Control Wearable Robots 4213 Kazuo Kiguchi and Yoshiaki Hayashi Perception: Part A - Perception and Its Applications - H07-01 New Perception of Fluffy Surfaces 4219 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, and Honghai Liu Development of Gazing Interface for Operation of a Page Turner Machine 4225 Nobuaki Nakazawa, Ilhwan Kim, Hiroki Murakawa, and Toshikazu Matsui Mitigating Biases in Time-to-Contact Judgments with Cockpit Displays of Traffic Information 4231 Carl Pankok and David B. Kaber Segmentation of Natural Scenes Based on Visual Attention and Gestalt Grouping Laws 4237 R.G. Mesquita and C.A.B. Mello Finding Text in Natural Scenes by Visual Attention 4243 R.G. Mesquita and C.A.B. Mello Tracked Object Association in Multi-camera Surveillance Network 4248 Xiaochen Dai and Shahram Payandeh Pedestrian Guidance and Sensory Fusion Using Peripheral-Vision-Stimulus and Vibratory Stimulus 4254 Norifumi Watanabe, Fumihiko Mori, and Takashi Omori 
lxvi 


SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-23 A Novel Approach for Binarization of Overlay Text 4259 Zhike Zhang and Weiqiang Wang Texture Analysis for the Segmentation of Optic Disc in Retinal Images 4265 Suraya Mohammad, D.T. Morris, and Neil Thacker A Faster Method for Chinese Font Recognition Based on Harris Corner 4271 Shuye Zhang, Lianwen Jin, Dapeng Tao, and Zhao Yang HaarHOG: Improving the HOG Descriptor for Image Classification 4276 Sugata Banerji, Atreyee Sinha, and Chengjun Liu Automatic Detection of Laughter and Fillers in Spontaneous Mobile Phone Conversations 4282 Hugues Salamin, Anna Polychroniou, and Alessandro Vinciarelli Visual Tracking Based on Compressive Sensing MCMC Sampling 4288 Lan Wang, Pingyang Dai, Yanlong Luo, Cuihua Li, and Yi Xie Modelling-Based Feature Selection for Classification of Forest Structure Using Very High Resolution Multispectral Imagery 4294 Benoit Beguet, Samia Boukir, Dominique Guyon, and Nesrine Chehata A New Method for Online Retinal Optic-Disc Detection Based on Cascade Classifiers 4300 Claudio A. Perez, Daniel A. Schulz, Carlos M. Aravena, Claudio I. Perez and T. Juan Verdaguer SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-24 Boundary Detection Based on Chromatic Color Difference and Morphological Texture Suppression 4305 D.C. Costa, C.A.B. Mello, and T.J. dos Santos Fuzzy Consistency Measure with Particle Swarm Optimization for Feature Selection 4311 Basabi Chakraborty and Goutam Chakraborty Pareto-Front Analysis and AdaBoost for Person Detection Using Heterogeneous Features 4316 A. A. Mekonnen, F. Lerasle, and A. Herbulot Pedestrian Detection under Progressive Occlusion 4322 Silvio G.O. Santos, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti, Tsang Ing Jyh and Jan Sijbers Type-2 Fuzzy GMM-UBM for Text-Independent Speaker Verification 4328 Hector N.B. Pinheiro, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti, Tsang Ing Jyh and Jan Sijbers 
lxvii 


A Combined Features Approach for Speaker Segmentation Using BIC and Artificial Neural Networks 4332 Leonardo Valeriano Neri, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti Tsang Ing Jyh, and Jan Sijbers Bird Species Classification Based on Color Features 4336 AndrÈia Marini, Jacques Facon, and Alessandro L. Koerich Regression Based Learning of Human Actions from Video Using HOF-LBP Flow Patterns 4342 Binu M. Nair and Vijayan K. Asari SMC: Human-Machine - HM-12 Finding People in Apartments with a Mobile Robot 4348 Michael Volkhardt and Horst-Michael Gross People Tracking on a Mobile Companion Robot 4354 Michael Volkhardt, Christoph Weinrich, and Horst-Michael Gross Applying Behavioral Strategies for Student Engagement Using a Robotic Educational Agent 4360 LaVonda Brown, Ryan Kerwin, and Ayanna M. Howard High Resolution Binocular Video See-Through Display for Interactive Work Support - Development of System and Evaluation of Depth Perception and Peg-in-Hole Tasks 4366 Kazuyo Iwamoto and Jun Ishikawa Assessment of the Wiimote as a Tangible User Interface for Interactive Virtual Environments 4372 Jacopo Aleotti, Stefano Caselli, and Vincenzo Micelli Improving the Localization Accuracy of Virtual Sound Source through Reinforcement Learning 4378 Manabu Washizu, Shuhei Morioka, Isao Nambu, Shohei Yano Haruhide Hokari, and Yasuhiro Wada Appearance-Based 3D Upper-Body Pose Estimation and Person Re-identification on Mobile Robots 4384 Christoph Weinrich, Michael Volkhardt, and Horst-Michael Gross Learning Behaviors from Human Teachers by Generalizing Task-Relevant Features 4391 Huan Tan and Qu Zhang 
lxviii 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-23 3D Face Recognition: Feature Extraction Based on Directional Signatures from Range Data and Disparity Maps 4397 Soodamani Ramalingam Multi Image Encryption and Steganography Based on Synchronization of Chaotic Lasers 4403 Sumona Mukhopadhyay and Henry Leung Design and Analysis of the Gateway-Level Topology Map in Topology-Aware ALM Systems 4409 Jianqun Cui, Naixue Xiong, Libing Wu, Keming Jia, and Kuan Gao Organizational Responsibility Model: Dealing with Demand for Services Higher Than Installed Capacity 4415 Guttenberg Ferreira Passos, Ilan Chamovitz, and Babis Theodoulidis A Situated Approach to Systems Based Modeling of Services 4421 Anshuman Saxena and Alain Wegmann Systems Oriented Approach to Production Support - A Viable Framework 4427 Veerendra K. Rai 3D Face Synthesis with KINECT 4433 Soodamani Ramalingam and Nguyen Trong Viet Increase Energy Efficiency of Data Center Cooling Facilities with Airflow Optimization 4439 Jochen Buchholz, Yosandra Sandoval, and Eugen Volk SMC: Systems Science - SYS-24 A Robust Anomaly Detection in Pantograph-Catenary System Based on Mean-Shift Tracking and Foreground Detection 4444 Ilhan Aydin, Mehmet Karakˆse, and Erhan Akin Distributed Algorithm for Connected Dominating Set Construction in Sensor Networks 4450 Najla Al-Nabhan, Mznah Al-Rodhaan, Abdullah Al-Dhelaan, and Xiuzhen Cheng A Smart Surface Simulation Environment 4456 David R.W. Barr, Declan Walsh, and Piotr Dudek Developing an Agent Model of a Missing Person in the Wilderness 4462 W. Mohibullah and Simon J. Julie Multi-robot Cooperation Based on Continuous Reinforcement Learning with Two State Space Representations 4470 Toshiyuki Yasuda, Kazuhiro Ohkura, and Kazuaki Yamada 
lxix 


Hierarchical Navigation Architecture and Robotic Arm Controller for a Sample Return Rover 4476 Velin Dimitrov, Mathew DeDonato, Adam Panzica, Samir Zutshi, Mitchell Wills and Taskin Padir Modular Robot Arm Design for Physical Human-Robot Interaction 4482 Ty Tremblay and Taskin Padir Kinematic Control of a Planetary Exploration Rover over Rough Terrain 4488 Thomas J. Carlone, Jon J. Anderson, Joseph L. Amato, Velin D. Dimitrov and Taskin Padir SMC: Systems Science - SYS-25 Thesaurus Performance with Information Retrieval: Schema Matching as a Case Study 4494 Thabit Sabbah and Ali Selamat A Novel Method for the Development of an Idealised Active Roll Stabilisation System Model 4499 Ingo Scharfenbaum, Alessio Fratini, and Gunther Prokop Conceptual Modeling Semantics for the Physical-Informatical Essence Duality Problem 4505 Yaniv Mordecai, Craig Chapman, and Dov Dori Research on the Application of Multi-model Predictive Control in Coordinated Control of 1,000 MW Ultra-supercritical Unit 4511 Xi Zhang, Shihe Chen, Weiwu Yan, and Guoliang Wang Control of Polystyrene Batch Reactor Using Fuzzy Logic Controller 4516 Mohammad Anwar Hosen, Abbas Khosravi, Saeid Nahavandi and Douglas Creighton Backstepping Control on SE\(3 Tracking 4522 Hyeonbeom Lee, Suseong Kim, Tyler Ryan, and H. Jin Kim An Agent-Based Simulation to Quantify and Analyze Bullwhip Effects in Supply Chains 4528 Nguyen Quoc Chinh, Li Zhengping, Tan Puay Siew, Chen Xianshun and Ong Yew Soon 
lxx 


Advances in Medical Informatics - C18-01 A Texture Feature Ranking Model for Predicting Survival Time of Brain Tumor Patients 4533 Mu Zhou, Lawrence O. Hall, Dmitry B. Goldgof, Robert A. Gatenby and Robert J. Gillies Diagnosis of Lymphatic Diseases Using a Naive Bayes Style Possibilistic Classifier 4539 Karim Baati, Tarek M. Hamdani, and Adel M. Alimi Revisiting Link-Based Cluster Ensembles for Microarray Data Classification 4543 Natthakan Iam-On and Tossapon Boongoen Automated Driving and Safety Systems - H09-01 Towards Evaluation of Post Impact Braking Function in Driving Simulator 4549 Faouzi Al Mouatamid, Artem Kusachov, Bengt Jacobson, and Derong Yang Using a Mediator to Handle Undesired Feature Interaction of Automated Driving 4555 Dominik Ertl, Sven Dominka, and Hermann Kaindl Lateral Control of Vehicle Platoons 4561 Stefan Solyom, Arash Idelchi, and Badr Bin Salamah Environmental Information Systems - S12-01 A Survey on Environmental Open Data in Austria 4566 Peter Wetz, Amin Anjomshoaa, and A. Min Tjoa An Intelligent Lighting System with a Seat Management Mechanism 4571 Mitsunori Miki, Hisanori Ikegami, Ryoga Okunishi, Kazuki Matsutani and Shohei Fujimoto Combination of Preferred Illuminance and Preferred Color Temperature for Work 4577 Mitsunori Miki, Hisanori Ikegam, Yo Motoya, and Shohei Fujimoto Maximization of the Average Color Rendering Index of Color Temperature and Illuminance Constraints 4583 Mitsunori Miki, Shohei Fujimoto, Yo Motoya, and Ryoga Okunishi Ontology-Based Integration of Heterogeneous Material Data Resources in Product Lifecycle Management 4589 Touba Rahmani, SÈbastien Bougain, and Detlef Gerhard 
lxxi 


Human-Centered Transportation Systems - H05-02 The Effect of Motion-Induced Factor on the Operator Performance during Ship's Watch 4595 Tunglam Ngodang, Koji Murai, Yuji Hayashi, Nobuo Mitomo, Kenji Yoshimura and Kenjiro Hikida Evaluation of Pilot Mental Workload for Simulator Based Training Using Heart Rate Variability 4601 Masahiro Tanaka, Koji Murai, and Yuji Hayashi Trial Study of Traffic Safety Education for High School Students Using Driving Simulator 4606 Takashi Imamura, Tomonari Ogi, Elvin Tiong Chew Lun, Zhong Zhang and Tetsuo Miyake Emotion and Gesture Recognition with Soft Computing Tool for Drivers Assistance System in Human Centered Transportation 4612 Urvashi Agrawal, Shubhangi Giripunje, and Preeti Bajaj Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-04 Use of Simulated Inertia to Improve the Performance of a BEP Human-Computer Interface 4617 Noel Segura Meraz and Yasuhisa Hasegawa Multi-human Locating in Real Environment by Thermal Sensor 4623 Masato Kuki, Hiroshi Nakajima, Naoki Tsuchiya, and Yutaka Hata On a Learning-Science System Supporting Visually Impaired Students via the Haptic Device 4629 Takashi Suzuki, Tomoyuki Araki, Katsuhiro Kawai Yasuyuki Murai and Hisayuki Tatsumi Metaheuristic Algorithms for Data Mining - C16-01 DECoDe - Differential Evolution Algorithm for Community Detection 4635 Thiago P. Leal, Amanda C.A. GonÁalves, VinÌcius da F. Vieira and Carolina R. Xavier The Effect of Features Using Feature Selection for Bayesian Classifier 4641 L. Moore and C. Kambhampati A Hybrid Approach for Mining Frequent Itemsets 4647 Bay Vo, Frans Coenen, Tuong Le, and Tzung-Pei Hong An IT2FLS-Based Malware Analysis Mechanism: Malware Analysis Network in Taiwan \(MiT 4652 Hsien-De Huang, Chang-Shing Lee Mei-Hui Wang, and Hung-Yu Kao 
lxxii 


SMC: Human-Machine - HM-13 User-Friendly Free-Text Keystroke Dynamics Authentication for Practical Applications 4658 Arwa Alsultan and Kevin Warwick A Study on Body Part Motion Caused by Improper Crutch Walk 4664 Naoaki Tsuda, Kota Tominaga, Yoshihiko Nomura, and Norihiko Kato Simulation Interface for Gesture-Based Remote Control of a Surgical Lighting Arm 4670 Jean-FranÁois Collumeau, Elyse Nespoulous, HÈlËne Laurent, and Benoit Magnain Topic and Opinion Classification Based Information Credibility Analysis on Twitter 4676 Yukino Ikegami, Kenta Kawai, Yoshimi Namihira, and Setsuo Tsuruta Human Interactions for Self-Adaptive Virtual Product Prototype 4682 L·szlÛ Horv·th and Imre J. Rudas Towards a Rule-Based Bidding Language: Promoting the Free Expression of Rational Conduct for Ecosystem Friendly E-Markets 4688 Wafa Ghonaim, Hamada Ghenniwa, and Weiming Shen SMC: Systems Science - SYS-26 A Dwi-Phase Fuzzy Control Structure for an Auto-mode Stair Climbing Wheelchair 4694 N.M.A Ghani and M.O. Tokhi SOS-Based Fuzzy Control of a Wheeled Mobile Robot with Decay Rate 4700 Gwo-Ruey Yum and Wei-Yi Wang Model-less versus Model-Based Controllers for Diabetes 4706 Ahmed Y. Ben Sasi and Mahmud A. Elmalki Guaranteed Cost Control Design Based on Takagi-Sugeno Fuzzy Systems with Nonlinear Subsystems 4712 Shunsuke Ochiai, Jun Yoneyama, and Yuzu Uchida Center of Mass Estimation for Rehabilitation in a Multi-contact Environment: A Simulation Study 4718 Alejandro Gonz·lez, Mitsuhiro Hayashibe, Emel Demircan, and Philippe Fraisse A Simple Phenomenological Modeling of McKibben Pneumatic Actuator and Its Application to Control 4724 Fumitake Fujii, Hiroyoshi Murata, Yuta Hirose, and Takuya Okada State Space Realization of Wood Drying Process: Modeling, Simulation and Evaluation in Reality 4731 Saleh S. Delshad and Thomas Gustafsson 
lxxiii 


Energy Saving and System Performance - An Art of Trade-Off for Controller Design 4737 Kang Li, Yongling Wu, Shaoyuan Li, and Yugeng Xi SMC: Systems Science - Flexible Production Management SYS-27 Multi-agent System Approach for the Strategic Planning in Ramp-Up Production of Small Lots 4743 Paulo Leit„o, JosÈ Barbosa, Pavel Vrba, Petr Skobelev, Alexander Tsarev and Daria Kazanskaia A Conceptual Architecture Based on Intelligent Services for Manufacturing Support Systems 4749 CÈsar A. MarÌn, Lars Mˆnch, Paulo Leit„o, Pavel Vrba, Daria Kazanskaia Vadim Chepegin, Liwei Liu, and Nikolay Mehandjiev Knowledge-Driven Adaptive Production Management Based on Real-Time User Feedback and Ontology Updates 4755 Daria Kazanskaia, Sergey Kozhevnikov, Vladimir Larukhin, Petr Skobelev Alexander Tsarev, and Yaroslav Shepilov Evaluation of an Ecosystem-Based Architecture for Adaptation to Cascades of Changes 4760 CÈsar A. MarÌn Systems Safety and Security - S20-01 Critical Infrastructures Governance Exploring SCADA Cybernetics through Architectured Policy Semantic 4766 Djamel Khadraoui and Christophe Feltus DNSsec in Isabelle - Replay Attack and Origin Authentication 4772 Florian Kamm¸ller, Yoney Kirsal-Ever, and Xiaochun Cheng On the Design of a System for Airport Protection against Terrorist Attacks Using MANPADs 4778 Ionescu Octavian and Pricop Emil Security Threats against the Communication Networks for Traffic Control Systems 4783 Huipu Fan, Yizhou Dong, Ming Yu, and Leonard Tung Chance-Constrained Programming Method by Constraints Aggregation for Social Consensus Making on IT Risk Countermeasure 4789 Katsunori Sato, Masaki Samejima, and Ryoichi Sasaki Performability Evaluation of Emergency System 4794 Marcus Queiroz, Paulo Maciel, Bruno Silva, and Almir P. Guimar„es 
lxxiv 


A Novel Automatic Load Shedding Scheme to Improve Survivability of Distribution Networks 4800 Hao-Tian Zhang, Loi Lei Lai, and Jiebei Zhu Future ICT-Enabled Manufacturing Execution - H12-01 An Exploratory Study into Automated Real-Time Categorisation of Engineering E-Mail 4806 James A. Gopsill, Stephen J. Payne, and Ben J. Hicks Automated Sound Signalling Device Quality Assurance Tool for Embedded Industrial Control Applications 4812 Tomasz Maniak, Rahat Iqbal, Faiyaz Doctor, and Chrisina Jayne Highly Flexible Self-Reconfigurable Systems for Rapid Layout Formation to Offer Manufacturing Services 4819 Victor M. Cedeno-Campos, Paul A. Trodden, Tony J. Dodd, and Jim Heley Physiologically Inspired Systems - S24-01 Human-Inspired Anticipative Postural Control Architecture for Humanoid Robots 4825 S. Martinez, A. JardÛn, and C. Balaguer Artificial Homeostasis for Engineering Systems: Involuntary Reflexes in Physiologically-Inspired Control Applications 4831 Carlos C. Insaurralde Learning from Big Data and Uncertainty - C06-01 Sample Selection Based on K-L Divergence for Effectively Training SVM 4837 Junhai Zhai and Chang Li A Reduction Algorithm for the Big Data in 3D Surface Reconstruction 4843 Jianwei Zhao, Yanqing Fu, Yuanpeng Tan, and Feilong Cao The Nested Structure in Fuzzy Rough Classifier 4848 Zhao Suyun, Chen Hong, Li Cuiping, and Chen Yu Medical Informatics - C17-01 Variation of Dynamic Muscle Model during Fatigue-Inducing Voluntary Contraction 4854 Youngjin Na, Suncheol Kwon, Jung Kim, and Changmok Choi Mining Clinical Pathway Using Clustering and Rule Induction 4860 Shusaku Tsumoto, Shoji Hirano, and Haruko Iwata 
lxxv 


Self-Organization and Emergence in Distributed Manufacturing Systems - S08-02 Characterization of Costs and Strategies for Automation in Evolvable Production Systems 4866 Antonio Maffei, Hakan Akillioglu, and Luis Flores Reliable Self-Learning Production Systems Based on Context Aware Services 4872 Sebastian Scholze, Dragan Stokic, Oliver Kotte, Jose Barata, Giovani Di Orio and Goncalo Candido Energy Efficiency in Machine Tools - A Self-Learning Approach 4878 Giovanni Di Orio, GoncÁlo C‚ndido, JosÈ Barata, JosÈ Luiz Bittencourt and Ralf Bonefeld Personalised Fuzzy Recommendation for High Involvement Products 4884 Vassilis C. Gerogiannis, Anthony Karageorgos, Liwei Liu, and Christos Tjortjis SMC: Systems Science - SYS-28 Semi-Gaku \(Semistry 4891 Toshinori Watanabe From Sense to Print: Towards Automatic 3D Printing from 3D Sensing Devices 4897 Nadia Figueroa, Haiwei Dong, and Abdulmotaleb El Saddik Computationally Tractable Approaches to Modeling the Coverage of Weather Sensor Networks 4905 Ziho Kang and Ellen J. Bass Information-Theoretic Characterization of Uncertainty in Manual Control 4913 Dari Trendafilov and Roderick Murray-Smith Healthcare and Enterprise Systems - S03-01 Mitigating Collisions in Saturated Wireless Network with Receiver Token Ring 4919 Liuxiao Zheng, Kewang Zhang, and Deyun Zhang Design of BCI Based Multi-information System to Restore Hand Motor Function for Stroke Patients 4924 Lin Gao, Jue Wang, Jin Li, and Yang Zheng SMC: Systems Science - SYS-29 A Small-Scale Traffic Monitoring System in Urban Wireless Sensor Networks 4929 Jin Zhou, C. L. Philip Chen, and Long Chen Decentralized Control for Second-Order Uncertain Nonlinear Multi-agent Systems Consensus Problem Based on Fuzzy Adaptive High-Gain Observer 4935 Changíe Ren and C.L. Philip Chen 
lxxvi 


Adaptive NN Consensus Control for a Class of Nonlinear Multi-agent Time-Delay Systems 4941 Guo-Xing Wen and C.L. Philip Chen Author Index 4947 
lxxvii 


Ridha, Ben Abdennour National School of Engineers of Gabes  FrB13 Olympic PID Control Lecture Session Chair: Hernandez-Guzman, Victor M Univ. Autonoma De Queretaro Co-Chair: Gambier, Adrian Univ. of Heidelberg 13:40-14:00 FrB13.1 MPC and PID Control Based on Multi-Objective Optimization pp. 4727-4732 Gambier, Adrian Univ. of Heidelberg 14:00-14:20 FrB13.2 Optimal PID Controller Design Using Standard Optimal Control Techniques pp. 4733-4738 O'Brien, Richard United States Naval Acad Howe III, Jamie United States Naval Acad 14:20-14:40 FrB13.3 P Quasi-I D Control for MIMO Systems_; ---Stabilization Based on High Gain Output Feedback pp. 4739-4745 Shimizu, Kiyotaka Keio Univ Tamura, Kenichi Keio Univ 14:40-15:00 FrB13.4 Robust Stabilization and PID Control for Nonlinear Discretized Systems on a Grid Pattern pp. 4746-4751 Okuyama, Yoshifumi Humanitech Lab 15:00-15:20 FrB13.5 Synthesis of PID Controller with Guaranteed Stability Margin for a Class of Unstable MIMO Systems pp. 4752-4754 Chang, Tsu-Shuan Univ. of California, Davis 15:20-15:40 FrB13.6 Modified Relay Feedback Test and Its Use for Non-Parametric Loop Tuning pp. 4755-4760 Boiko, Igor IMB Controls  FrB14 Adams Adaptive Control II Lecture Session Chair: Niemann, Henrik Tech. Univ. of Denmark Co-Chair: Bernstein, Dennis S Univ. of Michigan 13:40-14:00 FrB14.1 Adaptive Output-Feedback Control of MIMO Plants with Unknown, Time-Varying State Delay pp. 4761-4766 Mirkin, Boris Tech. -- Israel Inst. of Tech Gutman, Per-Olof Tech. Inst. of Tech Falcone, Paolo Chalmers Univ. of Tech 14:00-14:20 FrB14.2 Markov-Parameter-Based Adaptive Control of 3-Axis Angular Velocity in a Six-Degree-Of-Freedom Stewart Platform pp. 4767-4772 Pence, Benjamin Univ. of Michigan Santillo, Mario Univ. of Michigan Bernstein, Dennis S Univ. of Michigan 14:20-14:40 FrB14.3 Discrete Time Lyapunov Stable Staggered Estimator MIMO Adaptive Interference Cancelation with Experimental Verification pp 4773-4778 Arif, Jawad Inst. of Avionics and Aeronautical Engineering Akhtar, Suhail Inst. of Avionics and Aeronautical Engineering 14:40-15:00 FrB14.4 Control System Design for Retinal Imaging Adaptive Optics Systems pp. 4779-4784 Ficocelli, Maurizio Univ. of Toronto Ben Amara, Foued Univ. of Toronto 15:00-15:20 FrB14.5 Adaptive Controller Design and Disturbance Attenuation for Sequentially Interconnected SISO Linear Systems under Noisy Output Measurements with Partly Measured Disturbances pp. 4785-4790 Zeng, Sheng Hewlett-Packard Company Fernandez, Emmanuel Univ. of Cincinnati 15:20-15:40 FrB14.6 Homography-Based Visual Servo Control Via an Uncalibrated Camera pp. 4791-4796 Hu, Guoqiang Univ. of Florida Mackunis, William Univ. of Florida Gans, Nicholas Univ. of Florida Dixon, Warren E Univ. of Florida  


FrB15 Blakeley Uncertain Systems I Lecture Session Chair: Huang, Jie Chinese Univ. of Hong Kong Co-Chair: Haggblom, Kurt E Abo Akademi Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB15.1 Improved Robust Du-Stability Measures Via S-Procedure pp. 4797-4802 Sari, Bilal Univ. of Poitiers Bachelier, Olivier Univ. of Poitiers Mehdi, Driss ESIP-LAII Al Chaer, Toufic Univ. of Poitiers 14:00-14:20 FrB15.2 Robust H_inf SMC of Uncertain Switched Systems with Time Delay pp. 4803-4808 Lian, Jie Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB15.3 Two Algorithms for Model Quality Estimation in State-Space Systems with Time-Varying Parameter Uncertainty pp. 4809-4814 Salehpour, Soheil Lule Univ. of Tech Johansson, Andreas Lulea Univ. of Tech 14:40-15:00 FrB15.4 Robust H_{infty} Control for a Class of Uncertain Neutral Time-Delay Systems Via Dynamic Output Feedback pp. 4815-4820 Sun, Man Beihang Univ Jia, Yingmin Beihang Univ Du, Junping Beijing Univ. of Posts and Telecommunications Yuan, Shiying Henan Pol. Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB15.5 The Servomechanism Problem for Unknown MIMO LTI Positive Systems: Feedforward and Robust Tuning Regulators pp. 4821-4826 Roszak, Bartek Univ. of Toronto Davison, Edward J Univ. of Toronto 15:20-15:40 FrB15.6 Parameter Convergence with an Adaptive Output Regulation Problem pp. 4827-4832 Liu, Lu Chinese Univ. of HongKong Chen, Zhiyong The Univ. of Newcastle Huang, Jie Chinese Univ. of Hong Kong  FrB16 Cascade I \(C Spacecraft Control I Lecture Session Chair: Krishnakumar, Kalmanje NASA Ames Res. Center Co-Chair: Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB16.1 Space Station Zero-Propellant Maneuver Guidance Trajectories Compared to Eigenaxis pp. 4833-4838 Bedrossian, Nazareth Charles Stark Draper Lab Bhatt, Sagar The Charles Stark Draper Lab. Inc 14:00-14:20 FrB16.2 Attitude Tracking with Adaptive Rejection of Rate Gyro Disturbances pp. 4839-4844 Pisu, Pierluigi Clemson Univ Serrani, Andrea The Ohio State Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB16.3 Stabilization of the Angular Velocity of a Rigid Body System Using Two Torques: Energy Matching Condition pp. 4845-4849 Aguilar-Ibanez, Carlos Centro De Investigacion En Computacion Suarez-Castanon, Miguel Santiago Inst. Pol. Nacional Guzman-Aguilar, Florencio ESCOM-IPN 14:40-15:00 FrB16.4 Satellite Attitude Control Using Three Reaction Wheels pp. 4850-4855 Nudehi, Shahin MIchigan State Farooq, Umar Michigan State Univ Alasty, Aria Sharif Univ. of Tech Issa, Jimmy Michigan State Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB16.5 Satellite Attitude Control Using Statistical Game Theory pp. 4856-4861 Lee, Jong-Ha Temple Univ Diersing, Ronald Univ. of Southern Indiana Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 15:20-15:40 FrB16.6 Uniform Practical Output-Feedback Stabilization of Spacecraft Relative Rotation pp. 4862-4867 


Kristiansen, Raymond Narvik Univ. Coll Loria, Antonio CNRS Chaillet, Antoine Univ. Paris Sud Nicklasson, Per Johan Narvik Univ. Coll  FrB17 Whidbey Fuzzy Systems Lecture Session Chair: Lin, Jonqlan Ching Yun Univ Co-Chair: Langari, Reza Texas A&M Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB17.1 A Fuzzy-Based Reconstruction Algorithm for Estimating Metal Fill Profile in Lost Foam Casting pp. 4868-4874 Deabes, Wael Tennessee Tech. Univ Abdelrahman, Mohamed A Tennessee Tech. Univ Rajan, P. K Tennessee Tech. Univ 14:00-14:20 FrB17.2 An SOS-Based Stable Control of Polynomial Discrete Fuzzy Systems pp. 4875-4880 Tanaka, Kazuo Univ. of Electro-Communications Ohtake, Hiroshi Univ. of Electro-communications Wang, Hua O Boston Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB17.3 Fuzzy Model-Based Servo Control for Discrete-Time Nonlinear Systems pp. 4881-4886 Ohtake, Hiroshi Univ. of Electro-communications Tanaka, Kazuo Univ. of Electro-Communications Wang, Hua O Boston Univ 14:40-15:00 FrB17.4 Nonquadratic Lyapunov Function Based Control Law Design for Discrete Fuzzy Systems with State and Input Delays pp. 4887-4892 Sun, Yuming Jiangnan Univ Shen, Yanxia Southern Yangtze Univ Ji, Zhicheng Southern Yangtze Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB17.5 Designing a Hierarchical Fuzzy Controller for Backing-Up a Four Wheel Autonomous Robot pp. 4893-4897 Shahmaleki, Pourya Shiraz Univ Mahzoon, Mojtaba Shiraz Univ 15:20-15:40 FrB17.6 Adaptive Fuzzy Control of Unknown Nonlinear Systems with Actuator Failures for Robust Output Tracking pp. 4898-4903 Li, Ping Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ  FrB18 Vashon I Delay Systems I Lecture Session Chair: Rodrigues, Luis Concordia Univ Co-Chair: Sipahi, Rifat Northeastern Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB18.1 Recursive Predictor Design for Linear Systems with Time Delay pp. 4904-4909 Jankovic, Mrdjan Ford Res. and Advanced Engineering 14:00-14:20 FrB18.2 Convex Analysis and Synthesis for Uncertain Discrete-Time Systems with Time-Varying State Delay pp. 4910-4915 Miranda, Marcio Fantini Federal Univ. of Minas Gerais Leite, Valter J. S CEFET/MG - Campus Div 14:20-14:40 FrB18.3 Lyapunov Tools for Predictor Feedbacks for Delay Systems: Inverse Optimality and Robustness to Delay Mismatch pp. 4916-4921 Krstic, Miroslav Univ. of California at San Diego 14:40-15:00 FrB18.4 Chain Stability in Traffic Flow with Driver Reaction Delays pp. 4922-4927 Sipahi, Rifat Northeastern Univ Niculescu, Silviu-Iulian CNRS-Supelec 15:00-15:20 FrB18.5 Robust Control and Time-Domain Specifications for Systems of Delay Differential Equations Via Eigenvalue Assignment pp. 4928-4933 Yi, Sun Univ. of Michigan Nelson, Patrick Univ. of Michigan Ulsoy, A. Galip Univ. of Michigan 15:20-15:40 FrB18.6 


Stabilization of Discrete Time-Varying Delay Systems: A Convex Parameter Dependent Approach pp. 4934-4939 Leite, Valter J. S CEFET/MG - Campus Div Miranda, Marcio Fantini Federal Univ. of Minas Gerais  FrC03 Grand Ballroom III Robust Control Lecture Session Chair: Fujita, Masayuki Tokyo Inst. of Tech Co-Chair: Lanusse, Patrick Bordeaux 1 Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC03.1 An Improved Version of of the RBode Plot pp. 4940-4945 Xia, Lu Carnegie Mellon Univ Messner, William Carnegie Mellon Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC03.2 Robust H Infinity Control of an Uncertain System Via a Stable Postive Real Output Feedback Controller pp. 4946-4953 Petersen, Ian R UNSW at Australian Def. Force Acad 16:40-17:00 FrC03.3 Fractional Robust Control with Iso-Damping Property pp. 4954-4959 Pommier-Budinger, Valerie ISAE Janat, Yaman ENSICA Nelson Gruel, Dominique Bordeaux 1 Lanusse, Patrick Bordeaux 1 Univ Oustaloup, Alain Univ. Bordeaux 1 - ENSEIRB - ENSCPB 17:00-17:20 FrC03.4 Relaxed Robust Stabilization of Nonlinear Systems with Parametric Uncertainties pp. 4960-4965 Chen, Zhaona Northeastern Univ Zheng, Xiuping Northeastern Univ Jing, Yuanwei Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul 17:20-17:40 FrC03.5 Gamma-Independent H-Inf-Discretization of Sampled-Data Systems by Modified Fast-Sample/Fast-Hold Approximation with Fast Liftin g pp 4966-4972 Hagiwara, Tomomichi Kyoto Univ Okada, Koichiro Kyoto Univ  FrC05 Grand Ballroom II Networked Control Systems III Lecture Session Chair: Lemmon, Michael Univ. of Notre Dame Co-Chair: Martins, Nuno C Univ. of Maryland 16:00-16:20 FrC05.1 Network-Based H_{infty} Control of Systems with Packet Dropout and Time-Varying Sampling Period pp. 4973-4978 Wang, Yu-Long Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC05.2 On Transmitter Design in Power Constrained LQG Control pp. 4979-4984 Breun, Peter Tech. Univ. Munich \(TUM Utschick, Wolfgang TUM 16:40-17:00 FrC05.3 On Decentralized Optimal Control and Information Structures pp. 4985-4990 Motee, Nader Univ. of Pennsylvania Jadbabaie, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Bamieh, Bassam Univ. of California at Santa Barbara 17:00-17:20 FrC05.4 Stabilization of Networked Control Systems with Large Delays and Packet Dropouts pp. 4991-4996 Cloosterman, Marieke Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Van De Wouw, Nathan Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Heemels, Maurice Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Nijmeijer, Hendrik Eindhoven Univ. of Tech 17:20-17:40 FrC05.5 Stability Analysis for a Class of Networked/embedded Control Systems: A Discrete-Time Approach pp. 4997-5002 Fujioka, Hisaya Kyoto Univ  


FrC06 5th Avenue Games and Decision Processes Lecture Session Chair: Neogi, Natasha A Univ. of Illinois Co-Chair: Sundaram, Shreyas Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 16:00-16:20 FrC06.1 Robust Markov Decision Processes Using Sigma Point Sampling pp. 5003-5008 Bertuccelli, Luca F Massachusetts Inst. of Tech How, Jonathan P MIT 16:20-16:40 FrC06.2 Multi-Cumulant and Pareto Strategies for Stochastic Multi-Player Pursuit-Evasion pp. 5009-5015 Pham, Khanh D Air Force Res. Lab Lacy, Seth L Air Force Res. Lab Robertson, Lawrence AIR FORCE Res. Lab 16:40-17:00 FrC06.3 Recursive Computation of Stochastic Nash Games with State-Dependent Noise for Weakly-Coupled Large-Scale Systems pp. 5016-5022 Mukaidani, Hiroaki Hiroshima Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC06.4 N Player Nash Cumulant Games pp. 5023-5028 Diersing, Ronald Univ. of Southern Indiana Sain, Michael K Univ. of Notre Dame Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 17:20-17:40 FrC06.5 A Potential-Based Method for Finite-Stage Markov Decision Processes pp. 5029-5034 Jia, Qing-Shan Tsinghua Univ  FrC09 Vashon II Multivehicle Systems Lecture Session Chair: Martinez, Sonia Univ. of California at San Diego Co-Chair: Pagilla, Prabhakar R Oklahoma State Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC09.1 Elastic Multi-Particle Systems for Bounded-Curvature Path Planning pp. 5035-5040 Ahmadzadeh, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Jadbabaie, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Pappas, George J Univ. of Pennsylvania Kumar, Vijay Univ. of Pennsylvania 16:20-16:40 FrC09.2 Value-Based Control of the Observation-Decision Process pp. 5041-5046 McEneaney, William Univ. of California, San Diego Oran, Ali Univ. of California, San Diego Cavender, Andrew Univ. of California, San Diego 16:40-17:00 FrC09.3 Decentralized Control Based on the Value of Information in Large Vehicle Arrays pp. 5047-5054 Speyer, Jason L Univ. of California at Los Angeles Seok, Ilwoo UCLA Michelin, Andre UCLA 17:00-17:20 FrC09.4 Decentralized Reactive Collision Avoidance for Multiple Unicycle-Type Vehicles pp. 5055-5061 Lalish, Emmett Univ. of Washington Morgansen, Kristi A Univ. of Washington Tsukamaki, Takashi The Boeing Company 17:20-17:40 FrC09.5 On Robust Control Algorithms for Nonlinear Network Consensus Protocols pp. 5062-5067 Hui, Qing Georgia Inst. of Tech Haddad, Wassim M Georgia Inst. of Tech Bhat, Sanjay P Indian Inst. of Tech. - Bombay  FrC10 Cascade I \(A Switched Nonlinear Systems Lecture Session Chair: Cortes, Jorge Univ. of California at San Diego Co-Chair: Najson, Federico Univ. de la Rep˙blica 16:00-16:20 FrC10.1 Robust H-Infinity Control for a Class of Uncertain Switched Nonlinear Systems Using Constructive Approach pp. 5068-5073 


Li, Li-li Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC10.2 Average Dwell-Time Method to L2-Gain Analysis and Control Synthesis for Uncertain Switched Nonlinear Systems pp. 5074-5079 Wang, Min Northeast Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 16:40-17:00 FrC10.3 H_infinity Control for a Class of Non-Minimum-Phase Cascade Switched Nonlinear Systems pp. 5080-5085 Wang, Min Northeast Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC10.4 Applications of a Model Matching Framework in Switched Systems pp. 5086-5091 Jiang, Shengxiang Univ. of California, Santa Barbara Voulgaris, Petros G Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 17:20-17:40 FrC10.5 Fast-Switching Pulse Synchronization of Chaotic Oscillators pp. 5092-5097 Fiorilli, Francesca Pol. Univ Porfiri, Maurizio Pol. Univ  FrC11 Cascade I \(B Modeling and Simulation Lecture Session Chair: Braatz, Richard D Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign Co-Chair: Ou, Yongsheng Lehigh Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC11.1 Stack-Level Validation of a Semi-Analytic Channel-To-Channel Fuel Cell Model for Two-Phase Water Distribution Boundary Value Co ntrol  pp. 5098-5103 McCain, Buz Univ. of Michigan Siegel, Jason Univ. of Michigan Stefanopoulou, Anna G Univ. of Michigan 16:20-16:40 FrC11.2 Modeling and Simulation of PEM Fuel Cell with Bond Graph and 20sim pp. 5104-5108 Peraza, Cesar Inst. Univ. TecnolÛgico Valencia Diaz, Jose Gregorio Univ. de Carabobo Arteaga-Bravo, Francisco J Univ. de Carabobo Villanueva, Carlos Univ. de Carabobo Gonzalez-Longatt, Francisco UNEFA 16:40-17:00 FrC11.3 An Improved Finite Element Model of Incremental Forming Using Conic Programming pp. 5109-5114 Raithatha, Ankor Mahendra Oxford Univ Duncan, Stephen Univ. of Oxford 17:00-17:20 FrC11.4 Study of Three Different Approaches for Development of Power System Aggregated Load Area Models pp. 5115-5120 Wei, Jianlin Univ. of Birmingham Wang, Jihong Univ. of Birmingham Wu, Q. Henry Univ. of Liverpool Jia, Nan Univ. of Liverpool Lu, Nan Univ. of Liverppol 17:20-17:40 FrC11.5 Adaptive Synchronization for a Class of Complex Delayed Dynamical Networks pp. 5121-5126 Zhong, Wei-Song Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ  FrC12 Orcas Nonlinear Control Analysis and Applications II Lecture Session Chair: Sanfelice, Ricardo G Univ. of California Santa Barbara Co-Chair: Reger, Johann Tech. Univ. Berlin 16:00-16:20 FrC12.1 Planning a Finite Time Transition from a Non-Stationary to a Stationary Point without Overshoot pp. 5127-5129 Reger, Johann Tech. Univ. Berlin 


16:20-16:40 FrC12.2 Stabilizing Control of Symmetric Affine Systems by Direct Gradient Descent Control pp. 5130-5135 Tamura, Kenichi Keio Univ Shimizu, Kiyotaka Keio Univ 16:40-17:00 FrC12.3 Transfer Equivalence and Reduction of Nonlinear Delta Differential Equations on Homogeneous Time Scale pp. 5136-5141 Casagrande, Daniele Imperial Coll. London Kotta, ‹lle Inst. of Cybernetics at TUT Wyrwas, Malgorzata Tallinn Univ. of Tech Tonso, Maris Inst. of Cybernetics at Tallinn Univ. of 17:00-17:20 FrC12.4 QFT Control for Vibration Reduction in Structures Equipped with MR Dampers pp. 5142-5144 Zapateiro, Mauricio Univ. of Girona Luo, Ningsu Univ. of Girona Karimi, Hamid Reza Univ. of Girona 17:20-17:40 FrC12.5 A Constructive Lyapunov Function for Controlling the Inverted Pendulum pp. 5145-5149 Aguilar-Ibanez, Carlos Centro De Investigacion En Computacion  FrC14 Adams Robust and Adaptive Control II Lecture Session Chair: Packard, Andrew K Univ. of California at Berkeley Co-Chair: Schofield, Brad Lund Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC14.1 An Initial Study of a Combined Robust and Adaptive Control Approach to Guaranteed Performance Flight Control pp. 5150-5155 Boskovic, Jovan D Scientific Systems Co. Inc Knoebel, Nathan Scientific Systems Company INC Mehra, Raman K Scientific Systems Co. Inc 16:20-16:40 FrC14.2 Adaptive Control Using Reduced-Order Observers pp. 5156-5161 Boskovic, Jovan D Scientific Systems Co. Inc Knoebel, Nathan Scientific Systems Company INC 16:40-17:00 FrC14.3 Adaptive Robust Control of Uncertain Neutral Time-Delay Systems pp. 5162-5167 Moezzi, Kaveh Concordia Univ Aghdam, Amir G Concordia Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC14.4 Practical Robust Adaptive Control: Benchmark Example pp. 5168-5173 Kuipers, Matthew Univ. of Southern California Ioannou, Petros A Univ. of Southern California 17:20-17:40 FrC14.5 Adaptive Hybrid Control for Omnidirectional Mobile Manipulators Using Neural Network pp. 5174-5179 Tan, Xiangmin Key Lab. of Complex SystemsandIntelligentScience,Inst. Auto Zhao, Dongbin Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences Yi, Jianqiang Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences Xu, Dong Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences  FrC15 Blakeley Uncertain Systems II Lecture Session Chair: Hu, Jianghai Purdue Univ Co-Chair: Zak, Stanislaw H Purdue Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC15.1 Control of Uncertain Systems with Guaranteed Performance pp. 5180-5185 Lian, Jianming Purdue Univ Sudhoff, Scott Purdue Univ Zak, Stanislaw H Purdue Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC15.2 Estimation of Model Uncertainties in Closed-Loop Systems pp. 5186-5191 Niemann, Henrik Tech. Univ. of Denmark Poulsen, Niels Kj lstad Tech. Univ. of Denmark 16:40-17:00 FrC15.3 Integral Controllability and Integrity for Uncertain Systems pp. 5192-5197 


H‰ggblom, Kurt E bo Akademi Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC15.4 Optimal Timing of Control Law Updates for Unstable Systems with Continuous Control pp. 5198-5203 Gustafson, Eric Univ. of Michigan Scheeres, Daniel The Univ. of Michigan 17:20-17:40 FrC15.5 Network-Based Robust H_infty Control of Continuous-Time Systems with Uncertainty pp. 5204-5209 Zhu, Xun-Lin Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ  FrC16 Cascade I \(C Spacecraft Control II Lecture Session Chair: Su, Chun-Yi Concordia Univ Co-Chair: Ghose, Debasish Indian Inst. of Science 16:20-16:40 FrC16.2 Time Optimal Attitude Control for a Rigid Body pp. 5210-5215 Lee, Taeyoung Univ. of Michigan Leok, Melvin Purdue Univ McClamroch, N. Harris Univ. of Michigan 16:40-17:00 FrC16.3 A Novel Application of an Extended State Observer for High Performance Control of NASAís HSS Flywheel pp. 5216-5221 Alexander, B.X.S Cleveland State Univ Rarick, Richard Cleveland State Univ Dong, Lili Cleveland State Univ 17:20-17:40 FrC16.5 Perturbed Feedback Linearization of Attitude Dynamics pp. 5222-5229 Bajodah, Abdulrahman H King Abdulaziz Univ  FrC17 Whidbey Observers for Nonlinear Systems Lecture Session Chair: Celikovsky, Sergej Acad. of Science Co-Chair: Subbarao, Kamesh The Univ. of Texas, Arlington 16:00-16:20 FrC17.1 Discrete-Time Mixed H2/H-Infinity Nonlinear Filtering pp. 5230-5235 Aliyu, M. D. S Concordia Univ Boukas, El-Kebir Ec. Pol. de Montreal 16:20-16:40 FrC17.2 A Minimal Dimension Observer for Global Frequency Estimation pp. 5236-5241 Carnevale, Daniele Univ. di Roma Astolfi, Alessandro Imperial Coll. London and Univ. of Rome 16:40-17:00 FrC17.3 Time Scaling of a Multi-Output Observer Form pp. 5242-5247 Wang, Yebin Univ. of Alberta Lynch, Alan Francis Univ. of Alberta 17:00-17:20 FrC17.4 Sliding Mode Adaptive State Observation for Time-Delay Uncertain Nonlinear Systems pp. 5248-5253 Raoufi, Reza Univ. of Alberta Zinober, Alan The Univ. of Sheffield 17:20-17:40 FrC17.5 Observer with Sample-And-Hold Updating for Lipschitz Nonlinear Systems with Nonuniformly Sampled Measurements pp. 5254-5257 Raff, Tobias Univ. of Stuttgart Allgower, Frank Univ. of Stuttgart  FrC18 Vashon I Delay Systems II Lecture Session Chair: Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila Co-Chair: Jankovic, Mrdjan Ford Res. and Advanced Engineering 16:00-16:20 FrC18.1 Semi-Algebraic Problem Approach for Stability Analysis of a Class of Nonlinear Stochastic Delay System pp. 5258-5263 Kashima, Kenji Tokyo Inst. of Tech 


16:20-16:40 FrC18.2 ISS Control Laws for Retarded Stabilizable Systems by Means of the Liapunov-Krasovskii Methodology pp. 5264-5269 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 16:40-17:00 FrC18.3 If a Retarded System Is Linearizable and Stabilizable, Then It Is Input-To-State Stabilizable pp. 5270-5275 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 17:00-17:20 FrC18.4 ISS Control Laws for Retarded Stabilizable Systems by Means of the Liapunov-Razumikhin Methodology pp. 5276-5281 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 17:20-17:40 FrC18.5 On the Zeros of Quasi-Polynomials with Single Delay pp. 5282-5286 Gumussoy, Suat The MathWorks Inc  


