Application of Data Mining Techniques in Resources Evaluation Hai-dong Meng, Yu-chen Song Inner Mongolia University of Science and Technology Baotou 014010, China haidongm@imust.edu.cn Dinil Pushpalal Department of Internatio nal Resources Policy Graduate School of International Cultural Studies Tohoku University, Send ai 980-8576, Japan 
2010 Second IITA Internatio nal Conference on Geoscie nce and Remote Sensing 978-1-4244-8515-4/10/$26.00 \2512010 IEEE                                                   GRS2010 
Abstract 
227Due to the complexity of geoscientific data, such as geochemical data 
geophysical data and digital remote sensing data, traditional data mining methods, such as cluster analysis and association analysis, have li mitations in resources evaluation In this paper, a clustering algorithm is presented which has the ability to handle clusters of arbitrary shapes, sizes and densities For association analysis, quantitative association rules aims to deal with the relationships am ong continuous attributes of geoscientific data objects in reso urces evaluation. An association analysis algorithm based on the distances between clusters projected on attributes is pr esented. Applications indicate that the algorithms are effective in real world applications 
I I NTRODUCTION In many application domai ns, such as resources evaluation clusters of data objects are of arbitrary shapes, sizes and 
Keywords- Data mining; Cluster analysis; Association analysis Geoscientific data; Spatial data mining 
densities, and the number of clu sters is unknown. In such scenarios, traditional clustering algorithms, including partitioning methods, hierarchical methods, density-based methods and grid-based methods cannot identify clusters efficiently or accurately. Obviously, these are critical limitations or weaknesses of cluster ing methods. In order to solve these problems, many algorithms have been proposed by many researchers, such as Ert\366z, Steinbach and Kum Ayad and Kam n d Han  and Kriegel [4 5 and Zhang, Ramakrishnan and Livny [6   Algorithms for discovering classical association rules make different assumptions about th e type of datasets to be mined. In general, the dataset is a relational table. The domains of the attributes are restricted to boolean domains. The databases in most business and scientific domains have many types of attributes, includi 
ng quantitative, categorical or boolean attributes. The classical association analysis algorithms for boolean attributes can not mine quantitative association rules from databases with con tinuous attributes, and may yield very unintuitive results when app lied to continuous attributes Srikant and  Aum a nn and Lindell [9] proposed al gorithms to create quantitative association rules The rest of the paper is organized as follows. We present a novel clustering algorithm based on density and adaptive density-reachable in section 2. In section 3, the creation of quantitative association rules based on distance is proposed The applications of the algorithms are presented in section 4 Section 5 concludes with a summary II C LUSTERING A LGORITHM BASED ON D ENSITY AND ADAPTIVE D ENSITY  
 
i where i = 1, 2,\203, N. The density of data points models the overall density of a set of points in dataset 
D X D 
A Relevant Definitions of the Clustering Algorithm 
1\he density of data points Given N d-dimensional data points in dataset 
REACHABLE In many application domains clusters of data objects are of arbitrary shapes, sizes and densities, and the number of clusters is unknown. In order to solve the problem, we proposed a clustering algorithm which has the abilities to find clusters of arbitrary shapes and sizes, to handl e clusters and noise of varying densities, and to identify outliers effectively. The algorithm is called CADD \(Clustering Algorithm based on Density and adaptive Density-reachable, CADD\[10 as the sum of influence function associated with each 
j i X X d j i Guass e X f 
point  
1 2  2 2  
N j X X d i j i e X Density 
2 2 2  X  
Here, Gaussian influence function  
X i X j 
 
Density\(X 
CoefR D mean R 
indicates the density influence of each data points to the density of point 
are local maximum 3 is used to determine a circular area of data points x, labeled as 
R 
and the data points in the circular area 
X i X d 
0 
and 
 
 
is density adjustment parameter which is analogous to the st andard deviation, and governs how quickly the influence of a point drops off 2\ocal density attractors: Local density attractors are the data points at which th e values of density function 
Here  
CoefR CoefR 
D 
0 
N D mean 
1 
2  1 2 1 1 1    1    
is the mean distance between all data points in dataset 
i N i i X X 
and 
are belong a same cluster. The definition formula is    1 


Cy 1 203,Cy y if N X Repeat s Input  led with the attributes on which they are projected. For abbreviation, the rule is presented as 1 3   may also be other value of function which can adjust the density-reachable distance effectively the relationships among clusters projected on attributes are determined as presented later where all the attributes is determined by the distances among the images of clusters      CoefR i  5: Assign the data objects which are density reachable within adaptive density-reachable distance from i and delete the clustered objects from original dataset 6:  i X Given X the Clu d as X According the clustering feature i j i j A Clustering c s i i Attractor Density Attractor Density n-1 and Here According to the definitions we design and implement the clustering algorithm as below d-dimensional data points  Here is dominated by the numbers or densities of clus ters. In this paper, we use the 1 n-1 reachable from This is because that when the density value of local density attractor of a cluster is greater , the distance between objects in the cluster is smaller, and on the contrary, when the density value of local density attractor of a cluster is smaller, the distance between objects in the cluster is larger. When is the average distance from member points to the centroid or the radius of The rule holds with support and  1 0 1 is the centroid of p 1 p 2  p n-1 q p i d p i q R R R Adap i X B The Clustering Algorithm O C O C X X C N i C CF  N C X C X C X x 1 203,x x Y y 1 203,y y x x y y X x 1 203,x x Y y 1 203,y y c c q we define that object with an adjustment coefficient Clustering Algorithm based on Density and adaptive Density-reachable, CADD It is necessary to point out that if there are a number of clusters in a data space, the strong association rules among attributes just exist in each cluster. Therefore, the creation of association rules just focuses in each cluster. The notion proposed in this section can make the process of quantitative association analysis more simple, efficient and effective We use the clustering algorithm CADD to group the data points in a dataset. For a specifi c set of attributes, restrictions are placed on the properties of these data points when projected on are disjoint. The rule is density-reachable from 1. It is necessary to point out that adaptive adjustment coefficient       1     0 2  1 2 0 1    1  step by step duri ng clustering. The adaptive adjustment is carried out through multiplying the original density-reachable distance For a cluster, if association rules exist among the attributes the definition of association rules is is the number of data points in Algorithm is defined as  203 203 Output Attractor Density Attractor Density is adaptive density-reachable distance, and holds with confidence i i Attractor Density Attractor Density R X N     1 D i i B The Association Rules N i i X y 1 Until and 4: Seek the maximum density attractor     1 0 N R N i i    5\ptive density-reachable distance: In handling the clusters of varying densities, it is important to adjust the density-reachable distance p i p i+1 X X          and    p n x 1 x x y 1 y y is a local density attractor and x 1 Adjustment coefficient of density- reachable distance 1, let Because so and the support s DensityMaxi in the original dataset of clustering objects as the cluster centroid of DensityMaxi to cluster i  the cluster is denoted as R R Adap  1,\203,N Number of clusters, the members of each cluster outliers or noise points 1: Compute the densities of each data points and initial density-reachable distance 2:  i Original dataset is empty 8:  Make the clusters which have few objects \(such as less 5 or 7\into outlier or noise group III D ISTANCE B ASED Q UANTITATIVE A SSOCIATION R ULES Association rules that contain continuous attributes are commonly known as quantitative rules. There are various methodologies for appl ying association analysis to continuous data. The types of methods mainly fall into three broad categories: \(1 methods, \(2 based methods, and \(3\nondiscretization methods. The quantitative association rules derived using these methods are quite different in nature The main concept for creating distance-based association rules is to cluster data ob jects and mine association rules among these projected clusters according to the distances between the clusters  1 and   For distance-based association rules, the confidence density adjustment parameter then for   is named as the initial adjustment coefficient of densityreachable distance 4 Density-reachable means that if there is a chain of objects i+1 7 For this reason, when a cluster is projected on if q  CF Cx 1 Cx x Cy 1 Cy y Cx 1 203,Cx x Cx 1 203,Cx x Cy 1 203,Cy y Cx i Cy j Cx i Cx i Cy j Cx 1 203,Cx x Cy 1 203,Cy y R 


x i  holds with degree of association indicates the number of all data points in the data space The degree of association replaces the traditional notion of confidence and the density thresh old \(or the number of data points in a cluster\ the notion of support In this paper, we focus our research to the N:1 distancebased association rules. N:1 distance-based association rules have a number of important applications. Often in data mining we are interested in discovering wh ich attributes determine one of a specific set of target attributes. For example, in geochemical applications, there are many chemical elements which are measured in the field and we have to determine the relationship between a target element and a specific set of elements so as to solve some geochemi cal problems Another example is that in medical domain we also have to research the relationships between a specific sym ptom and other symptoms and so on is determined by the radius of the cluster. Because the creation of association rules is in each cluste r, it is unnecessary to calculate Equation \(7\e define the support N Cy 0           Here  pplications, the value of hist, shallow particle rock, and griotte are the other attribut es of data points in the data space and In second phase, the distances There are 1443 samples actually in the geochemical measurement region, and for each sample 17 kinds of chemical elements are measured which are Ag, Al, As, Au, Cd, Co, Cu Fe, Hg, K, Mn, Mo, Pb, Sb, Sn, W, Zn. The sampling points constitute a spatial dataset in which each data point has 17 attributes, i.e., Ag, Al, As, Au, Cd, Co, Cu, Fe, Hg, K, Mn, Mo Pb, Sb, Sn, W, Zn. The clustering result of CADD is shown in Figure 2. There are four clusters Cluster1, Cluster2, Cluster3 Cluster4 and Outliers found in the spatial dataset. The a cluster on are calculated in a cluster which holds support of data points in the cluster, and  x 1 x 2 203,x x R Y D 0 x i D Y Cx Y Cy D i j i d X Cx X Cx D i x j j i i Y D 0 D i S Y X x 1 x x        Ds 1      0  203 and y be pairwise disjoint sets of attributes. A N:1 distance-based association rule \(DAR where each projected on is the target attribute chosen by domain experts interactively and  The algorithm presented in this section is a modification of the algorithm pr and it includes three phases  In third phase, the rule is fo rmed by combining the clusters projected on a ttribute Y which holds and  IV A PPLICATIONS In the real world applicati on of data mining techniques, we use cluster analysis and association analysis to research the regional geochemical characteristics in a region of western China. The sampling area is 80*72 Km 2 the distance between sampling points and lines is 2 Km, and the number of sampling points is 1517. The lithological distribution pattern in the region is shown in Figure 1 1\ the pale yellow area indicates humus, anemoarenyte and diluvium in Quaternary; \(2 yellow area is sandy and carboni ferous dark gray-colored slate and silty mudstone with siltstone in Dyas; \(3\rk yellow area represents clastic rock, dark graycolored conglomerate graywacke and silty slate with silty mudstone in Dyas; \(4\ yell ow and yellowish-browncolored granite porphyry hornble nde granite porphyry, and masanophyre in Yanshanian magmatis m distribute in the pale pink area; \(5 flesh and red-colored granitello and medium-grain granite in Yanshanian magmatism; \(6 blue area indicates gray and sage green-colored rhyolite rhyolitic tuff with breccia in Jurassic; \(7 dimgray-colored medium and coarse-grain quartz diorite and gneissic quartz diorite in Variscan magmatism; \(8 green area is sage green and pa le-gray-yellow-colored biotite plagioclase gneiss with amphibole plagioclase gneiss quartz sc Here, we emphasize that D Y Cx Y Cy D i  s  the image of all data points in the range of Y Cx Y Cy D i   and is the distance between centroids of S Ds Y Cy S 0      Figure 1 Lithological distribution patter n in the sampling region The purposes of clustering analysis and association analysis are to research the characteristics of regional geochemical anomalies, to determine the distribution of an omaly source, and to analyze the type of mineral resources according to the relationship among the geochemical elements  and Y Cx Y Cy  Cx i    Y Y Y Y Y R Cy C The Association Algorithm A Cluster Analysis  ber                Ds Y Cy S here Euclidean distance metric to measure the distance between data points According to the notion proposed by R. J. Miller and Y Yang [8], the definitions of di stance-based association rules are as follows Let In first phase, clusters in the data space are identified using normal clustering al gorithms, such as K-means or CADD ring features a r e calculated is a cluster projected on if Cx 1 203,Cx x Cx i Cy Cy Cx i Cx i Cy Cx i Cy of the association rule as   tes the 


33.6 2\he association rule of Sb with other elements Ag 0.1 W B Association Analysis Geological survey in the field indicates that mineral occurrences of W and Pb or Cu exist in the area of Cluster1 According to the geochemical th  hem ical characteristics of a geological unit can be evaluated using the association rule of the chemical elements. In this section, we use association analysis to analyze the relationship among the chemical elements so as to determine the characteristics of a geological unit, and provide useful knowledge for mineral resource survey Because the chemical elements Cd and Sb are important indicator elements for the ev aluation of mineral resources, we research the relationships Cd and Sb with other chemical elements using the distance-based association analysis. For Cluster1, when 0.03,2   0,8.7  0,8.7.0 33.6 The association rules indicate that Cd and Sb are related with Ag, Au, Hg, Mo, Pb, Sn and W under certain degree of association and support According to geochemical we can conclude that the mineral resources in the region are related with Ag, Au, Hg, Mo, Pb, Sn and W. The conclusion is consistent with the real characteristics of mineral resources in the region V C ONCLUSIONS The research results may provide new methods and techniques for comprehensive inte rpretation of geoscientific data, and minimize the uncertainness and ambiguity of geoscientific data interpretation in resources evaluation. Along with the development of geosciences, more and more data are collected, and data mining techniques have evolved important methods to process huge amounts of geoscientific data and to discover useful geoscientific knowl edge efficiently and effectively A CKNOWLEDGMENT The materials are based on wor k supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No 40762003, National C hunhui Project un der Grant No. Z20091-01041, and Natural Science Foundation of Inner Mongolia under Grant No. 200711020814 R EFERENCES  L Ert\366z, M. St ei nbach, and V Kum a r. Finding Clusters of Different Size, Shapes and Densities in Noisy High Dimensional Data. In Proc. of the 3rd SIAM International Conferen ce on Data Mining: pp.47-58, 2003  H. Ayad, and M Ka m e l  Finding Natural Clusters Using Multi-cluster Combiner Based on Shared Nearest Neighbors. In Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Multiple Classifier Systems MCS 2003  Springer Berlin, LNCS 2709 pp.159-175, 2003  R. T. Ng and J Han. CL ARANS: A Method for Clustering Objects for Spatial Data Mining. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 14\(5 1003-1016, 2002  M Ester, H.-P  Kriegel, and J Sander, et al A Density-Based  Algorithm for Discovering Clusters in Large Spatial Databases with Noise. In Proceedings-The 2 nd Intl. Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Portland, Oregon, A AAI Press: pp.226-231, August 1996  J.-O Sander M  Este r and H-P K r iegel et al Density-Based  Clustering in Spatial Data sets: The Algorithm GDBSCAN and Its Applications. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 2: pp.169\205194 1998  T. Zhang, R  Ra m a krishnan, and M Livny An Efficient Data Clustering Method for Very Large Databases In Proc. ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, Montreal, Canada: pp.103-114, 1996  R. Srikant and R. Agrawal Mini ng Quantitative Association Rules in Large Relational Tables, ACM SIGMOD, Volu me 25, Issue 2: pp.1-12 1996  R. J. Miller and Y Yang. Associ ation rules over interval data, ACM SIGMOD Volume 26, Issue 2: pp. 452-462, June 1997  Y. Au m a nn and Y. Lindell. A Statistical Theory for Quantitative Association Rules, Journal of Intelligent Information Systems ,Volume 20 ,  Issue 3: pp.255 \205 283, May 2003  H D   M e ng, Y.C. Song and F Y   Song Resear ch and im ple m entation of clustering algorithm for arbitrary clusters, In Proceedings International Conference on Computer Science and Software Engineering, v 4: pp 255-258, 2008  Y.C Song, H.-D. Meng, M J O'Gr ady, and G. M. P. O'Hare. Research and Application of Clustering Algorithm for Arbitrary Data Set, In Proceedings - International Conference on Computer Science and Software Engineering, v 4: pp 251-254, 2008  P.-G. Dai X  P G u and J.-L. Yu Applied Geochem istry  Published by  Central South University Press, China, 2008 Figure 2 Clustering result of geochemical samples 0.01,0.2  Au 0.3,1  Hg 0.01,0.2  As 0.3,1  Hg 5.0 Sb 5.0 Sn 0.03 Sn 1.4 Ag D 0 D 0 S D 0 S 0.005, the quantitativ e rules are as follows 1\he association rule of Cd with other elements As 0.005 0.005 0.02,4 Pb 0.01  0.02,4 Pb 1.4  Au Sb Cd distribution pattern of the clu sters is consistent with the lithological distribution patte rn in the region, which can indicate the characteristics of geochemical anomaly. The distribution area of Clust er1 reflects the geochemical characteristics of the dimgray-colored medium and coarsegrain quartz diorite and gneissi c quartz diorite in Variscan magmatism \(the purple area 0.1,14], W 1.0,120 1.0,120 


  40  The second step is started by making logical and   between each pair of frequent 1-itemsets, as we mentioned earlier in this paper, and by assigning 30% as a new value to the minimum support threshold, we found that the frequent 2itemsets will be: {{1, 3}, {1, 4}, {3, 5}}, and the graph is constructed by drawing an edge between each pair of frequent items, as in Figure 1   Figure 1: a simple directed graph to display frequent k-itemsets k 2  To determine frequent 3-itemsets, we traverse the graph as if there is a path among three nodes {i , j} and {j, k then the set {i, j, k} will be frequent 3-itemset. Here, in this example, {{1, 3, 5}} is the only frequent 3-itemsets. As there are no extra edges, the algorithm terminates In the standard situation, as the database contains hundreds of thousands of transactions and different items constructing only one graph is not practical, and so we suggested to construct different graphs for each cluster and find from this graph all frequent itemsets, then combine the subsets of frequent itemsets together to get the whole set of frequent itemsets, and this technique is scalable with all transactions databases of different sizes 6  Experimental Results To assess the efficiency of the proposed technique, we have implemented the CGAR, along with Apriori algorithm using Java programming language on a Pentium IV 1700 MHz PC with 512MB of available physical memory. The test databases are the standard datasets available to evaluate rule mining algorithms, they are: T10I4D100K and T40I10D100K We execute both algorithms, Apriori and CGAR, at various values of minimum support thresholds, as the number of frequent itemsets generated inversely proportional with the value of the minimum support. Figure 2 displays the average execution time in seconds to generate all frequent itemsets using CGAR and Apriori algorithm        Figure 2: a comparison between Apriori and CGAR The experimental results in Figure 2 show that the CGAR algorithm has better performance than Apriori in terms of the execution time. When there is an increase in the number and size of frequent itemsets discovered, i.e. reduction in the minimum support threshold, the performance gap between these algorithms is displayed in greater clearance 7  Conclusion In this paper we propose a new framework, which is scalable and efficient.  The entire database is divided into 1 3 5 4 Time Seconds  Minimum Support 


  41  partitions of variable sizes, each partition will be called a cluster.  Each cluster is consid ered one at a time by loading the first cluster into memory and calculating large itemsets and the corresponding support counts. Then the second cluster is considered similarly and the cumulative support count is calculated for the cumulative large itemsets. This process is continued for the entire set of clusters and finally we have the whole large itemsets and the corresponding cumulative support counts.  This approach reduces main memory requirement since it considers only a small cluster at a time and hence it is scalable for any large size of the database Experiments using two of the standard transaction databases available on the Internet, T10I4D100K and T40I10D100K, show that CGAR outperforms Apriori, a familiar and widely used association rule mining algorithm When there is a reduction in the value of the minimum support threshold, the performance gap between the algorithms becomes more evident References 1 uhJ i u a n T s ay J i un nY a n n Ch ia ng C B A R  an e f f i cie n t m e t h o d f o r  mining association rules, Knowledge-Based Systems 18 \(2005\105 2 R A g r a w a l  T   I m il ie ns ki, A  S w am i Mi ni ng as s o cia t io n r u l e s be tw e e n s e ts  of items in large databases, Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, Washington, DC, 1993 pp. 207–216 3  A y s e Oz el and H  A l tay  G venir  A n A l g o r ithm f o r Mi ni ng A s s o ciati o n  Rules Using Perfect Hashing and Database Pruning, \(2000  4  A g ra w a l R  S r ik ant   M i ni n g s e q u e nt ia l pa tt ern s  P r oc eed in gs of th e 11 th  International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE\, 1995 5 F  B e rz a l  J C  C u b e ro N M a rin   J M  Se rra n o  T B A R a n e ffi c i e n t me th od for association rule mining in relational databases, Elserier Data and Knowledge, Engineering 37 \(2001\ 47–64 6   Br i n R  Mo tw an i C. S i l v e r s t e i n, Be y o nd m a r k e t  bas k e t s  g e ne r a l i z i ng  association rules to correlations, ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, Tuscon, Arizona, 1997 pp. 265–276 7 s ho k S a v a s e r e E d w a r d O m ie ci ns k i a n d S h am ka n t N a v a t h e  A n E f f i cie n t  Algorithm for Mining Association Rules in large databases. 1995 8 a n, J P e i, J Y i n  Y  Min i ng f r e que nt P a tte r ns w i tho u t Ca nd i d a t e  Generation. In: ACM-SIGMOD, Dallas \(2000 9 h o w J ane Y e n an d A r be e  L  P  Che n A G r aphB a s e d A ppr o a c h f o r  Discovering Various Types of Association Rules, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. 13, NO. 5 SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2001 10 D  W  C h e u ng J. H a n  V  T   N g A  W  F u Y  F u A f a st dis t r i bu te d  algorithm for mining association rules, Proceedings of International Conference on PDIS’96, Miami Beach, Florida, USA, 1996 11  Be n F r an kl in G e ne al og ical D a t a  Mi ni ng  2 0 0 6    


 F  To check the validity of association rules  E quatio n  1  is use d  as  it is done i n  th e  last column of  Figur e  7   G  Select one  of th e  rules which have Improvement  value more than   1     H  In case if there is another job asking to get the files  and the s e files are available in the same sites then  choose another rule to serve the new request  Otherwise  apply  Aprior i  algorithm for recent STTs  of  new replicas sites    VI I   I NTERPRETING THE  R ESULT S    This section means to explain how the association  rul e s work better than the traditional and random methods  As it is shown in  Figure 7 after applying  Aprior i  algorithm  we get  602  different rules which can be used to select the  best combination of replica sites   Let us explain Figure 7  in details    Rule #1: if Site\(s S 4  S 7  are selected then this implies  that site\(s S 3  can also be selected at the same time. This  rule has 100% confidence    In other words, it means if site  S 4   and  S 7  are selected to  work together to transfer the requested files, t h en this  implies site\(s  S 3  can also be selected to share the work at  the same time. This rule has confidence  100  This  particular rule has  confidence  of  100  meaning that  S 4  S 7   and  S 3  can be selected as a best set of replicas by  Replica  Manage r  to ge t  requested files. To compute the correlation  of this rule and see how far it is better than choosing the site  randomly, we use an Improvement equation     indicates that it has support of  26  transactions, meaning that in transaction  Single Trip  Time  Table  there are  2 6  concurrent uncongested trips of  S 4  S 7   i.e. these sites have similar network conditions in particular  time      indicates the total number of transactions  involving uncongested trips of  S 3   in  Rule 1  is equal to  174    This is a piece of a side information; it is not involved  in calculating the confidence or support for the rule itself       is the number of transactions where   S 4   S 7 as well as   S 3 has uncongested trips. In  Rule 1  it is equal  to  2 6       or   indicates how much  more likely we are to encounter  S 4  and  S 6  transaction if we  consider just those transactions where  S 3  S 5 and  S 8  have  uncongested trips. As compared to the entire population of  the transactions, it's t h e  confidenc e  divided by  support \(c   where the latter is expressed as a percentage   For  Rule 1 the  confidenc e is  100   support \(c  in  percentage   174/194\*100 = 89.6 9 So, th e    Lift ratio = 100/89.69.1 = 1.1   As it is clearly shown in  Figure 7  some r u les with  an improvement value less than one means this is an  unreliable rule. Whereas the rule with a value more than one  means this rule is better than random replica selection with  number of time equal to improvement value as it is shown in  Figure 8                   When improvement value is more than 1 it is better to use  EST to select replica sites, because it selects the sites able to  work simultaneously    I n  Figure  9  we sho w  the  comparison between EST and  traditional model using highest bandwidth a s  a criterion to  select the best replica. As we can observe our technique has  a better performance most of the times because it selects the  sites which have the stable links. In traditional method the  site which has the highest bandwidth does not always me a n  to be the best because sometimes this highest bandwidth  link can be congeste d   Let us declare more by the following  scenario  o f  Figure 1 0 suppose   S 0   be the computing site  and let   S 1  S 3   S 1 4   be replica sites  Red stars referring to  congested router s   Using traditional selection method the  file will be got from S14 since it has less number of Hops  routers\ and highest and also has highest bandwidth link         Figure 8. Improvement ratio for different rule s  Figure 9. Traditional selection strategy and ES T    
193 


               Using  ES T the replica   S 3    is selected as a best replica  because the link b etween  C S  and  R S  is uncongested     VII I   C ONCLUSIO N  In this paper we presented a dynamic replica  selection strategy that aims to adapt at ru n time its criteria to  flexible QoS binding contracts specified by the service  provider and/or the client. The adapta b ility feature  addressed by our replica selection strategy is inferred from  the observation that the basic metrics, which influence the  QoS that the user perceives when accessing a replica  depend directly on the application being replicated and on  the cli e nts\222 preferences. To reach this objective that, we  used   the concept of association rules of data mining  approach to the most stable links sites in order to reduce the  searching space the response time and network resources  consumed    A CKNOWLEDGEMENT S  Au t hors wish to express their sincere thanks to  Prof. Arun Agarwal, from GridLabs Department of  Computer and Information Sciences, University of  Hyderabad, India for providing all the infrastructural and  computational support required to carry out this work  His  academic suggestions to improve the quality of the work are  also highly appreciated and acknowledged   R EFERENCE S     M  Rashedur Rahma n   Ken Barke r   Reda Alhaj j    Replica  selection in grid environment:a dat a mining approac h    Distributed systems and grid computing \(DSGC\,pp: 695  226  700  2005    J. Gwertzman and M. Seltzer    The case for geographical  push  cashing  In Proceeding of the 5th Workshop on Hot ZTopic in  Operating Systems, 1995     R. Kavitha, I. Foster   Design and evaluation of replication  strategies for a high performance data gri d  in, Proceedings of  Computing and High Energy and, Nuclear P h ysics, 2001   S. Vazhkudai, J. Schopf, I. Foster   Predicting the performance of  wid e area data transfer s  in: 16th International PDPS, 2002   S. Vazhkudai, J. Schopf   Using regression techniques to predict  large data transfer s  in: Computing: Infrastru c ture and  Applications, The International Journal of High Performance  Computing Applications, IJHPCA , August, 2003   A. Abbas, Grid Computing    A Practical Guide to Technology  and  A PPLICATION S    2006   http://goc.pragm a grid.net/wiki/index.php/UoHy d   S. Vazhkudai, S Tuecke, I. Foster   Replica selection in the  globus data gri d  in: First IEEE/ACM International Conference  on Cluster Computing and the Grid, CCGrid 2001   J. Guyton and M. Schwartz   L o cating nearby copies of replicated  internet server s    In Proceeding of ACM SIGCOM M 222  95, 1995   A. Tirumala, J. Ferguson, Iperf 1.2   The TCP/UDP Bandwidth  Measurement Tool, 2002   R. Wolski, Dynamically forecasting network performance using  the Network Weat h er Service, Cluster Computing \(1998   Yunhong Gu, Robert L. Grossman   UDT: UD P based data  transfer for hig h speed wide area network s  Computer  Networks, Volume 51, Issue 7, 16 May  2007, Pages 1777 1799  Elsevier   R.M. Rahman, K. Barker, R. Alhajj   Predicting the performance  of GridFTP transfer s  in: Proceedings of IEEE Symposium of  Parallel and Distributed Systems, 2004, New Mexico, USA, p  238a   J. F. Kurose, K.W. Ross   Compute r  Networking A To p Down  Approach Featuring the Interne t 3rd edition   S. Venugopal, . R. Buyya,"The Gridbus Toolkit for Service  Oriented Grid and Utility Computing: An Overview and Status  Report"2004   R   Agrawal  T  Imielinski  A.Swami    Mining associatio n  rules  between sets of items in large database s  In: Proc. ACM  SIGMOD Intl. Conf. Management Data, 199 3  R  M Rahman, K Barker and R Alhajj   Replica selection  strategies in data gri d    Jou r nal of Parallel and Distributed  Computin g   Volume 68, Issue 1 2 Pages 156 1 1574, December  2008   A. Jaradat, R. Salleh and A. Abid   Imitating K Means to  Enhance Data Selectio n  Journal of Applied Sciences 9 \(19  356 9 3574, 2009, ISSN 181 2 5654, Asian Ne t work for Scientific  Informatio n 2009   S. Venugopal, . R. Buyya, K. Ramamohanarao, "A taxonomy of  Data Grids for distributed data sharing, management, and  processing". ACM Comput. Surv. 38, 1 \(Jun. 2006  AC M   New  York, NY, US A  http://www.resample.com/xlminer/help/Index.ht m  A   K Pujar i    Data mining technique s    Hyderabad : Universities  Press, 2002   G. Williams, M. Hegland and S. Roberts   A Data Mining  Tutoria l  IASTED International Conference on Parallel and  Distributed Computing and Networks P DCN\22298\ 14 December  199 8   T  Ceryen, and M. Kevin, 2005   Performance characterization of  decentralized algorithms for replica selection in dstributed object  system s  Proceedngs of 5th International Workshop on Software  and Performance, July 11  14, Palm a de Mallorca, Spain, pp  25 7 262    F  Corina, and M. Mesaac, 2003  A scalable replica selection  strategy based on flexible contract s  Proceedings of the 3rd  IEEE Workshop on Internet Applications, June 2 3 24, IEEE  Computer Society Washington, DC, USA p p: 9 5 99   R. M. almuttari, R. Wankar, A. Negi, C.R. Rao   Intelligent  Replica Selection Strategy for Data Gri d    In proceeding of the  1 0 t h  International conference on Parallel an d  Distributed  Proceedin g  Techniques and Applications  IEEE Computer  Society W a shington, DC  WorldComp2010, GCA2010   LasVega s   USA  Volume3  pp: 9 5 100  July 1 2 1 5 201 0   Cisco Distributed Director  http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/cc/pd/cxsr/dd/index.shtm l  M   Sayal, Y. Breitbart, P. Scheuermann, R  Vingralek   Selection  algorithms for replicated web server s  In Proceeding of the  Workshop on Internet Server Performance,1998   E. Zegura, M. Ammar, Z. Fei, and S. Bhattacharjee   Applicatio n layer anycasting: a se r ver selection architecture and  use in a replicated web servic e  IEEE/ACM Transactions on  Networking, vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 45 5 226 466, Aug. 2000     Figur e  10   Data Grid and their associated network geometr y   
194 


Application of Chaotic Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm in Chinese Documents Classification 763 Dekun Tan Qualitative Simulation Based on Ranked Hyperreals 767 Shusaku Tsumoto Association Action Rules and Action Paths Triggered by Meta-actions 772 Angelina A. Tzacheva and Zbigniew W. Ras Research and Prediction on Nonlinear Network Flow of Mobile Short Message Based on Neural Network 777 Nianhong Wan, Jiyi Wang, and Xuerong Wang Pattern Matching with Flexible Wildcards and Recurring Characters 782 Haiping Wang, Fei Xie, Xuegang Hu, Peipei Li, and Xindong Wu Supplier Selection Based on Rough Sets and Analytic Hierarchy Process 787 Lei Wang, Jun Ye, and Tianrui Li The Covering Upper Approximation by Subcovering 791 Shiping Wang, William Zhu, and Peiyong Zhu Stochastic Synchronization of Non-identical Genetic Networks with Time Delay 794 Zhengxia Wang and Guodong Liu An Extensible Workflow Modeling Model Based on Ontology 798 Zhenwu Wang Interval Type-2 Fuzzy PI Controllers: Why They are More Robust 802 Dongrui Wu and Woei Wan Tan Improved K-Modes Clustering Method Based on Chi-square Statistics 808 Runxiu Wu Decision Rule Acquisition Algorithm Based on Association-Characteristic Information Granular Computing 812 JianFeng Xu, Lan Liu, GuangZuo Zheng, and Yao Zhang Constructing a Fast Algorithm for Multi-label Classification with Support Vector Data Description 817 Jianhua Xu Knowledge Operations in Neighborhood System 822 Xibei Yang and Tsau Young Lin An Evaluation Method Based on Combinatorial Judgement Matrix 826 Jun Ye and Lei Wang Generating Algorithm of Approximate Decision Rules and its Applications 830 Wang Yun and Wu-Zhi Qiang Parameter Selection of Support Vector Regression Based on Particle Swarm Optimization 834 Hu Zhang, Min Wang, and Xin-han Huang T-type Pseudo-BCI Algebras and T-type Pseudo-BCI Filters 839 Xiaohong Zhang, Yinfeng Lu, and Xiaoyan Mao A Vehicle License Plate Recognition Method Based on Neural Network 845 Xing-Wang Zhang, Xian-gui Liu, and Jia Zhao Author Index 849 
xiii 


   C4.2 Open GL has excellent documentation that could help the developer learn the platform with ease C4.3 Developer has very little ex perience in working with Open GL platform  For our case study, alternative B i.e. Adobe Director was the most favorable alternative amongst all the three. It catered to the reusability criteria quite well and aimed at meeting most of the desired operational requirements for the system   6. CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK  The main contribution of this paper is to develop an approach for evaluating performance scores in MultiCriteria decision making using an intelligent computational argumentation network. The evaluation process requires us to identify performance scores in multi criteria decision making which are not obtained objectively and quantify the same by providing a strong rationale. In this way, deeper analysis can be achieved in reducing the uncertainty problem involved in Multi Criteria decision paradigm. As a part of our future work we plan on conducting a large scale empirical analysis of the argumentation system to validate its effectiveness   REFERENCES  1  L  P Am g o u d  U sin g  A r g u men ts f o r mak i n g an d  ex p lain in g  decisions Artificial Intelligence 173 413-436, \(2009 2 A  Boch m a n   C ollectiv e A r g u men tatio n    Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning 2002 3 G  R Bu y u k o zk an  Ev alu a tio n o f sof tware d e v e lo p m en t  projects using a fuzzy multi-criteria decision approach Mathematics and Computers in Simualtion 77 464-475, \(2008 4 M T  Chen   F u zzy MCD M A p p r o ach t o Selec t Serv ice  Provider The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy 2003 5 J. Con k li n  an d  M. Beg e m a n   gIBIS: A Hypertext Tool for Exploratory Policy Discussion Transactions on Office Information Systems 6\(4\: 303  331, \(1988 6 B P  Duarte D e v elo p in g a p r o jec ts ev alu a tio n sy ste m based on multiple attribute value theroy Computer Operations Research 33 1488-1504, \(2006 7 E G  Fo rm an  T h e  A n a l y t ic Hier a rch y P r o cess A n  Exposition OR CHRONICLE 1999 8 M. L ease  an d J L  L i v e l y  Using an Issue Based Hypertext System to Capture Software LifeCycle Process Hypermedia  2\(1\, pp. 34  45, \(1990 9  P e id e L i u   E valu a tio n Mo d e l o f Custo m e r Satis f a c tio n o f  B2CE Commerce Based on Combin ation of Linguistic Variables and Fuzzy Triangular Numbers Eight ACIS International Conference on Software Engin eering, Artificial Intelligence Networking and Parallel Distributed Computing, \(pp 450-454 2007  10  X  F L i u   M an ag e m en t o f an In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  Network for a Web-Based Collaborative Engineering Design Environment Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems,\(CTS 2007\, Orlando, Florida May 21-25, 2007 11 X. F L i u   A n In ternet Ba se d In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  System for Collaborative Engineering Design Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems pp. 318-325\. Las Vegas, Nevada 2006 12 T  M A sub jec tiv e assess m e n t o f altern ativ e m ission  architectures for the human exploration of Mars at NASA using multicriteria decision making Computer and Operations Research 1147-1164, \(June 2004 13 A  N Mo n ireh  F u zzy De cisio n Ma k i n g b a se d o n  Relationship Analysis between Criteria Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society 2005 14 N  P a p a d ias HERMES Su p p o rti n g A r g u m e n tative  Discourse in Multi Agent Decision Making Proceedings of the 15th National Conference on Artifical Intelligence \(AAAI-98  pp. 827-832\dison, WI: AAAI/MIT Press,  \(1998a 15  E. B T riantaph y llo u   T h e Im p act o f  Ag g r e g atin g Ben e f i t  and Cost Criteria in Four MCDA Methods IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol 52, No 2 May 2005 16 S  H T s a u r T h e Ev alu a tio n o f airlin e se rv ice q u a lity b y  fuzzy MCDM Tourism Management 107-115, \(2002 1 T  D W a n g  Develo p in g a f u zz y  T O P S IS app r o ach  b a sed  on subjective weights and objective weights Expert Systems with Applications 8980-8985, \(2009 18 L  A  Zadeh  F u z z y Sets   Information and Control 8  338-353, \(1965  152 


                        





