Distributed Pivot Clustering with Arbitrary Distance Functions L Karl Branting 7525 Colshire Drive McLean Virginia USA lbranting@mitre.org Abstract  This paper describes an algorithm Distributed Pivot Clustering DPC that differs from prior distributed clustering algorithms in that it requires neither an inexpensive approximation of the actual distance function nor that pairs of elements in the same cluster share at least one exact feature value Instead DPC requires only that the distance function satisfy the triangle inequality and be of sufìciently high-granularity to permit the data to be partitioned into canopies of optimal size based on distance to reference elements or pivots  An empirical evaluation demonstrated that DPC can lead to accurate distributed hierarchical agglomerative clustering provided that the triangle inequality and granularity requirements are met I NTRODUCTION Clustering very large data sets is essential for data-mining tasks in many diverse domains including many forms of textual visual sequential spatial and temporal analysis A key challenge of hierarchical clustering of very large datasets is avoiding calculation of a global distance table an  n 2  operation that is intractable for large data collections In domains in which members of the same cluster can be guaranteed to share a common feature value distance calculations can be restricted to pairs sharing at least one such feature In the general case however there may be no single criterion for distinguishing pairs belonging to the same cluster from those that do not other than the distance function itself For example cross-document named-entity resolution typically entails clustering within-document coreference chains having complex contextual information No single coreferencechain feature is either necessary or sufìcient for such pairs of coreference chains to denote the same entity An intractable global distance table calculation can be obviated if comparisons involving each element can be restricted to a subset of instances that are plausible candidates for being in the same cluster This can be achieved if the original dataset can be inexpensively partitioned into subsets possibly overlapping of elements that are not too dissimilar from one another under the distance function Techniques for partitioning instances given only a distance function that satisìes the triangle inequality have been known for decades For example Burkhart-Keller Trees 2 f acilitate indexing by partitioning instances by distance from pivots  i.e randomly selected reference instances If the distance function satisìes the triangle inequality pairs of instances that differ by more than k in distance to a pivot cannot differ from each other by less than k  The distance between such pairs need not be calculated if k is an upper limit on the distance that can separate members of the same cluster Similarly FastMap projects a metric space onto a Euclidean space based on relative distance to reference elements A variety of other pivot-based indexing techniques exploiting this insight are discussed in The insight that distances to reference points can be used to lter pairs that must be very dissimilar and therefore need not be compared was applied to clustering in canopy clustering  As originally described canop y clustering uses two distance functions a cheap and approximate function based on an inverted index and a second more expensive and accurate function Each canopy consists of instances within some threshold T 1 of a random point  i.e  a pivot under the inexpensive function and those within T 2 T 1 are restricted from being in any other canopy Clustering using the expensive precise function is limited to the contents of each canopy For agglomerative clustering this procedure reduces the cost of a global distance table to the sum of the costs of building distance tables for the contents of each canopy The procedure described in the original canopy clustering paper demonstrated the utility of partitioning instances into overlapping subsets based on distance to pivots but this approach is not applicable in the general case of an arbitrary distance function for which no approximation such as an inverted index is available This dependence on an approximation to the actual distance function is also found in more recent approaches to large-scale clustering which typically depends on the assumption that all pairs of entities in the same cluster must share an exact match on at least one feature such as a name In the absence of an inexpensive approximate distance function based for example on exact feature matches canopies must be constructed using the precise distance function itself In place of an approximate distance function  an approximate threshold  T   must be identiìed that will guarantee that every cluster will be contained within a canopy of radius T  around some instance if this condition cannot be met no set of pivots 21 2013 IEEE International Conference on Big Data 978-1-4799-1293-3/13/$31.00 ©2013  IEEE 


can lead to the correct clusters Under these circumstances that is when which there is no inexpensive approximation to the distance function any practical solution to the general clustering problem must solve the following three problems 1 Finding an appropriate approximate threshold T  for the given distance function If T  is too large canopies will be too large to cluster tractably e.g  Hadoop processing nodes will time-out for lack of progress T  values that are too small give rise to boundary effects described in more detail below which can cause suboptimal clusters 2 Finding an appropriate number of pivots or equivalently canopies Too many canopies degrade performance by causing redundant clustering Too few canopies like too small T  s result in boundary effects 3 When overlapping canopies cause a set of instances to be clustered multiple times in separate clusters assigning a single unique cluster assignment for all the instances If elements of multiple identical canopies are not given a single unique cluster assignment they will appear to be in separate clusters degrading clustering accuracy Choosing an appropriate value for T  is by far the most complex of these three tasks This paper sets forth an approach to clustering in Hadoop that solves these three problems in a manner that is agnostic as to both the particular clustering algorithm applied at each node and the distance function requiring only that the distance function satisfy the triangle inequality M OTIVATION AND T ASK D ESCRIPTION Large-scale clustering problems with complex distance functions are typiìed by cross-document entity resolution CDER  8 9 10 Entity resolution comprises the subtasks of entity matching  i.e  recognizing that two distinct name strings may denote the same person and entity disambiguation  i.e  recognizing that two identical name string instances may denote different people In a typical approach to CDER entity resolution is rst performed on individual documents producing entity records each of which contains a coreference chain consisting of mentions of a single individual in a single document Entity records may also contain additional information associated with entity mentions such as relationships to co-occurring entities and concepts expressed in the text surrounding the entity Entity records are then clustered based on a distance function deìned over coreference chains and other single-document record information Determining the similarity between pairs of entity records can require complex reasoning For example if John Doe and Jonathan A Doe are authors of the same book this is strong evidence that they are the same person whereas having the same nationality is weak evidence Sharing an uncommon name is much stronger evidence of denoting the same person than is sharing a common name Because of the complexity of evaluating the similarity of pairs of entity records entity records often contain information that is not amenable to representation as feature vectors As a result in some cases it is not feasible to model the distance function as Euclidean distance in feature space Cross-document entity resolution is particularly important and challenging in largescale document collections such as the English Wikipedia or the entire World Wide Web which can only be stored and processed in a distributed fashion If a threshold T can be identiìed such that any two records R i and R j that differ by no more than T  i.e  d  R i R j  T  probably denote the same individual then cross-document entity resolution can be performed by a distributed partitional clustering procedure that does the following  Given  A set of records R in a distributed le system  A distance function d over pairs  R i R j  R i R j  R such that  d satisìes the triangle inequality  some threshold T such that if d  R i R j   T  then R i and R j should belong to the same cluster  Do  Find a smallest partition P of R such that  p  P  R i  p  R j  p  d  R i R j   T  The contribution of this paper is to demonstrate how pivotbased techniques can be used to implement this distributed partitional clustering procedure in the MapReduce framework to accurately cluster distributed datasets even in the absence of an approximate distance function Speciìcally this paper shows how to nd the optimal approximate threshold T   determine an appropriate number of pivots and assign members of overlapping canopies to a single unique cluster An empirical evaluation demonstrates that the accuracy of this approach depends critically on aspects of the distance function including 1 satisfaction of the triangle inequality 2 granularity and 3 the dimensionality of the data to which the distance function applies D ISTRIBUTED P IVOT C LUSTERING DPC Distributed pivot Clustering DPC is an approach to clustering very large data collections in a MapReduce environment DPC takes as input a set of records R  and a distance function d  together with three additional parameters 1 an upper limit S on the number of instances that can be tractably clustered on a single node 2 a threshold T representing the upper limit on distance between two equivalent records and 3 the target degree of overlap between canopies O  S  T  and O can be determined empirically by clustering a subset of data on a single node S through timing tests and T and O through cross validation if ground-truth data is available As with other pivot-based algorithms DPC exploits the fact that for functions satisfying the triangle equality instances that are close to the same pivot must also be close to each other At a high level the DPC approach is as follows  Calculate a value for T  such that the number of elements within T  of each pivot i.e the mean canopy size C  will be as close as possible to S  that is each canopy will consist of the maximum number of elements that can be tractably clustered at a single node 22 


Fig 1 A histogram of per-bin and cumulative pair-wise distance counts for 100,000 sample pairs 100,000 random 80-character strings character-vector arc-cosine distance and 1,000 bins  Select a set of P random pivots from the unclustered records such that P  C   R  O  that is so that the number of pivots times the canopy size P  C  is equal to total number of elements times the target overlap R  O   Construct a canopy for each pivot p consisting of all unclustered records r such that d  p r   T   The triangle inequality guarantees that the distance between each pair of records in a given canopy will be no more than 2  T    Cluster the contents of each canopy using threshold T  T   Select a unique cluster assignment for instances belonging to multiple clusters  Repeat this procedure while any unclustered records remain Calculating T  The purpose of the rst two MapReduce jobs is to calculate a value for T  that is large enough to minimize boundary effects but small enough to be tractable The complex nature of many distance functions means that pairwise distances are in general not normally distributed Instead the distribution is best modeled as a histogram of counts The rst MapReduce step samples random pairs of instances and writes out for each node the frequency counts of each distinct distance at that node key binNumber value where the default number of bins is 1,000,000 The second MapReduce job sums these values across all nodes producing a histogram for the sampled instances of the entire set For example Figure 1 is a histogram of per-bin and cumulative pair-wise distance counts for 100,000 sample pairs taken from 100,000 random 80-character strings where distance is measured as the arc-cosine between pairs of charactervectors The vertical axis is the proportion of pairs falling within each bin shown in the horizontal axis Speciìcally the value of bin k is the number of pairs R i R j for which  k  1 b  d  R i R j  k/b  1  1 No bin is needed for the distance 1.0 because pairs with maximum dissimilarity should never be in the same canopy Based on the histogram T  is calculated as T   arg max T     b  T   k 1 bin k   sample  S  R   That is T  is the inverse cumulative sum of the proportion of the entire sample in each bin of the histogram The calculation is performed by simply iterating through the bins of the histogram starting with the bin corresponding to the lowest distance and stopping when the sum of histogram counts reaches the largest sum less than or equal to  sample  S  R  since a larger value might lead to canopies too large to tractably cluster at each node In Figure 1 T  has been selected such that the cumulative distribution is 0.2 Each canopy that includes all records within this T  of a pivot can be expect to contain about 20 of the entire data set To select canopies with a smaller proportion of the entire data set which is typical necessary for large data sets a much smaller value for T  would be selected Pivot Selection The third MapReduce job selects P random pivots from the unclustered records where P   R  O/S  that is so that the number of pivots is equal to total number of elements times the target overlap over the target canopy size To insure that each node has exactly the same pivots the pivots are sent to the distributed cache at the conclusion of this job Canopy Construction and Clustering The fourth mapper compares each unclustered record to each pivot Those that match a pivot are written to the canopy for that pivot key pivot value The fourth reducer then clusters the elements of each canopy i.e clusters all records that match a common pivot writing the results as key record value Each clusterSummary records the number of elements of the cluster and the mean similarity of the key to the other elements of the cluster information that is used in the unique cluster assignment step Pivots that match no other records are treated as singleton clusters Unique Cluster Assignment The Fifth MapReduce job starts with an empty Mapper The Reducer iterates over pairs of the form key record value  Each such pair represents an alternati v e assignment of the record to a different cluster each corresponding to a separate canopy in which the key occurred there will be a separate canopy for each pivot p for which d  p s   T   Each record is assigned to single cluster according to the following procedure  Select the largest cluster containing the record  If there are multiple clusters of the same size select the cluster for which the mean distance between the record and the elements of the cluster is least  If there are still multiple clusters impose an arbitrary ordering of clusters  e.g  select the cluster with minimum hash code to break the symmetry in a consistent way 23 


Fig 2 Canopies indicated by large circles consist of all instances within T  of a pivot shown in red Fig 3 Canopy overlaps and singletons do not affect accuracy but boundary effects degrade accuracy Segregation Two additional MapReduce jobs are needed to identify the records from the original set R  that are not yet clustered because they did not match any pivot and to move any such records to a separate directory for the next iteration of the algorithm Recalculation of Statistics If instances remain to be clustered which can happen if the original data set does not equal the union of the canopies the sequence of MapReduce steps is repeated including calculation of the distribution of pair-wise distances Recalculation of distribution statistics is necessary because at each iteration unclustered instances are more likely to be in sparsely populated regions than those clustered Thus the distribution typically changes each distribution Overlaps Singletons and Boundary Effects Figure 2 illustrates notionally how canopies depicted as large circles consist of all instances within T  of a pivot shown in red Since pivots are chosen at random the canopies can overlap in unpredictable ways Not shown in this gure is the fact that instances are initialed distributed unpredictably among the nodes in the Hadoop cluster so that instances that are close together under the distance function are not in general initially on the same node Intuitively the purpose of the pivots is identify instances that are close enough together under the distance function that they can be clustered on a single node The fourth mapper described above indexes all such instances with a common key so that they are all handled by the same reducer and the fourth reducer clusters all instances in each canopy Figure 3 illustrates that when canopies are clustered the result may include singleton or overlapping clusters and that there may be boundary effects in which a ground-truth cluster only partially overlaps any canopy Overlapping clusters donêt reduce accuracy as long as instances are consistently assigned to a unique largest and best matching cluster as per the procedure above Boundary effects however degrade clustering accuracy A ground-truth cluster that is not completely contained within some canopy can not be accurately detected This is the motivation for requiring the degree of canopy overlap to be as large as tractable to minimize the likelihood of boundary effects T WO W AY S A D ISTANCE F UNCTION C AN A FFECT C LUSTERING A CCURACY There are many ways to measure the distance between pairs of entities such as co-reference chains for the purpose of clustering However the choice of distance function can have a signiìcant effect on the effectiveness and accuracy of distributed pivot clustering As shown above the triangle inequality guarantees that each pair of records in a canopy differ by no more than 2  T   If the triangle inequality is not satisìed this guarantee may fail meaning that canopies are no longer guaranteed to consist of similar records For example suppose that 2  T<T  and there is some record r 1 that is less than T from both pivot V and from a second record r 2  If the triangle inequality is satisìed record r 2 can differ from apivot V by no more than 2  T<T  and will therefore be in the same canopy as r 1  If the triangle inequality is not guaranteed r 2 could be arbitrarily far from V and therefore fail to be in V s canopy Under these circumstances r 1 and r 2 could fail to be in the same cluster There is a second less obvious scenario in which a distance function can preclude accurate clustering even if the distance function satisìes the triangle inequality DPC calculates T  based on the histogram of pairwise distances in the corpus If the distance function d has too few distinct values then there may be no possible values for T  such that 1 T  012 T necessary to avoid boundary effects and 2 the cumulative sum of T  is no larger than  sample  S  R   that is the T  neighborhoods of pivots contain no more than the upper limit S  on tractable canopy size For example if d is normalized 24 


Fig 4 Artiìcial data sets in which members of the same cluster differ by at most T  while elements of different cluster differ by strictly greater than T  edit distance 2 the number of distinct values of d can be no greater than the length of the longest string being compared If the number of records being clustered is large in proportion this number of distinct values it may be impossible to satisfy both conditions 1 and 2 above In sum pairs of instances may fail to be clustered if either 1 the distance function does not guarantee the triangle inequality in which case instances close to each other may not be close to the same pivot or 2 the distance function has very few possible values relative to the number of instances being clustered in which case there may be no possible value of the distance function that can produce canopies small enough to be tractable but big enough to avoid boundary effects E XPERIMENTAL E VALUATION To demonstrate empirically the effect of distance function characteristics on clustering accuracy an evaluation was performed using artiìcial data on which four distinct distance functions were deìned 1 Character cosine CC Instances are strings of characters default length 80 and distance is the cosine of the frequency vectors of the character strings CC does not guarantee the triangle inequality 2 Arc-cosine of character cosine AC Identical to CC except that the cosine is converted to an angle by arccosine function AC guarantees the triangle inequality 3 Edit distance ED Normalized edit distance between two character strings default length 80 consisting of edit distance divided by the length of the longest of the two strings being compared by default both strings are the same length ED satisìes the triangle inequality but has a limited number of possible values 4 Euclidean distance L2 Instances are vectors of real number of length 4 by default  2 Normalized edit distance is edit distance divided by the length of the longest of the two strings being compared Hereafter in this paper the term edit distance is used as shorthand for normalized edit distance Fig 5 Mean recovered cluster size for clusters with actual size 10 and overlap of 4 To simplify evaluation of clustering accuracy artiìcial data sets were constructed such that every cluster had the same number n of elements defaulting to 10 the maximum distance between any pair of elements in each cluster was T  and the minimum distance between any pair of elements not in the same cluster was strictly greater than T  as depicted in Figure 4 The clustering algorithm applied to each canopy was complete maximum linkage agglomerative hierarchical clustering with a maximum pairwise distance within each cluster of T  Under this approach if every cluster c discovered by the algorithm is of size  c   n  then the correct structure has been discovered This is because the clustering procedure guarantees that no cluster can contain any pair whose dissimilarity is greater than T  This precludes clustering errors in which pairs that should be in separate clusters are incorrectly placed in the same cluster The only possible clustering error is separation of the instances that should be in one cluster into two or more clusters i.e the only possible error is false negatives Thus a mean cluster size of less than n indicates a loss of accuracy from failure to cluster entities that differ by less than T  In the rst experiment data sets were created of sizes 2,500 10,000 40,000 160,000 640,000 1,280,000 the Euclidean data was 4-dimensional the CC AC and ED data consisted of length-80 character sequences the target canopy size was 2,000 and target overlap O  was 4 The results shown in Figure 5 illustrate the effects of errors of both types described above The vertical axis of Figure 5 represents the mean size of the clusters returned by DPC on each data set Mean size of 10 means that the exact cluster size has been recovered while lower values mean that instances that differ by less that T were not clustered together For data sets of all sizes AC had a higher mean cluster size and therefore greater accuracy than CC even though both the underlying character strings themselves and their representation as character frequency vectors was identical Replacing a function that violated the triangle inequality character cosine one that preserved it arc cosine consistently improved accuracy 25 


Fig 6 Mean error rate in canopy size Fig 7 Mean canopy size Fig 8 Per bin and cumulative proportion of all pairs for edit distance Fig 9 Per bin and cumulative proportion of all pairs for edit distance Fig 10 Accuracy of L2 as a function of the number of dimensions 40,000 instances Fig 11 Accuracy of AC and CC as a function of target overlap O  for 160,000 instances ED satisìes the triangle inequality 3 but Figure 5 shows that DPC accuracy plummeted for ED as the data set size grew Figure 6 shows that ED is the only distance function for which there is a high error rate in canopy size and Figure 7 shows that the error rate is the result of the canopy size being much lower than the target of 2,000 for every size data set except 40000 To understand why the limited number of possible values degrades the accuracy of canopy-sizes in large data sets consider that for the largest set in the evaluation above 1,280,000 a single canopy of size 2,000 is 2,000/1,280,000  0.0015625 of the total number of instances being clustered Accordingly T  should be selected so that the cumulative sum of histogram bins is 0.0015625 Figure 8 shows the very small number of distinct bins in the histogram for 100,000 sample pairs drawn from 100,000 random 80 character strings Figure 9 shows that the cumulative proportion increases from 0.00036 to 0.00252 as edit distance increases from 0.73 to 0.74  i.e  the number of character differences increases by 1 Choosing T  to be 0.73 would lead to canopies containing on average 0.00252 of the total or roughly 3226 per canopy whereas T  0  74 leads to canopies on average of 0.00036 or roughly 461 per canopy small enough to lead to boundary errors Since DPC selects T   3 Edit distance satisìes the triangle inequality because edit-distance\(A,C can never exceed edit-distance\(A,B  edit-distance\(B,C that is the length of the shortest sequence of edits from A to B to C is an upper bound on the length of the shortest sequence of edits from A to C 26 


such that canopies will be no greater than the target size S  T  is selected to be 0.74 leading to the under-sized canopies and resultant severe boundary effects shown above Occasional accurate performance under edit distance such as occurred with the 40,000 instances data set in the example above results when one of the small number of possible distance values happens to coincide with the proportion of instances required for the target canopy size The insufìcient granularity of edit distance stands in contrast to the situation shown in Figure 1 in which the granularity of character-vector arc-cosine is effectively limited only by the number of bins For larger data sets clustering was considerably more accurate under Euclidean distance than under arc-cosine distance One possible explanation for this phenomenon is that the higher dimensionality of character vectors degrades performance since higher dimensions lead all else being equal to less distance variance and therefore diminished discrimination among instances based on distance Figure 10 pro vides conìrmation for this hypothesis because it shows that the accuracy under Euclidean distance diminishes with increasing dimensions The effect of varying the target canopy overlap O is shown in Figure 11 Increasing target overlap increased cluster accuracy over the entire range tested This suggests that a high level of canopy overlap is needed to minimize boundary effects In summary the results shown in Figure 5 illustrate two ways in which an inappropriate distance function can lead to degraded clustering accuracy the function may violate the triangle inequality like character cosine or the function may have too few distinct values to permit the set of instances to be partitioned into canopies of the right size for distributed clustering like edit distance Euclidean distance suffers from neither of these defects and Figure 5 shows that it supports accurate clustering even at large scales for four-dimensional vectors although accuracy decreases for higher dimensions Character vector arc cosine also satisìes both criteria but its high dimensionality appears to cause some loss of discrimination based on distance to pivots and therefore some loss of clustering accuracy C ONCLUSION This paper has described a procedure DPC for tractable clustering of large data collections under the MapReduce framework In contrast to previous large-scale clustering algorithms DPC does not depend on the existence of an inexpensive approximation of the actual distance function nor on the requirement that pairs of elements in the same cluster share at least one exact feature value Instead DPC depends only on a distance function that satisìes the triangle inequality and that is sufìciently high-granularity to partition the data set into partitions small enough to cluster on a single processor This paper has shown that key technical challenge of DPC determining a value of T  that produces canopies of appropriate size can be solved by sampling the pairwise distances distribution in the data set The experimental evaluation suggests that performance is better with lowerdimensional than higher-dimensional data and is improved by signiìcant canopy overlap DPC demonstrates that very large data sets data can be tractably and accurately clustered in the MapReduce framework for any distance function with sufìcient granularity that satisìes the triangle inequality This result should extend the range of domains amenable to large-scale hierarchical clustering beyond those for which simplifying assumptions such as that all pairs of elements in the same cluster necessarily share at least one common feature value A CKNOWLEDGMENT This work was funded under contract number CECOM W15P7T-09-C-F600 The MITRE Corporation is a not-forproìt Federally Funded Research and Development Center chartered in the public interest R EFERENCES  W  A Burkhard and R M K eller  Some approaches to best-match le searching Commun ACM  vol 16 no 4 pp 230Ö236 1973  R A Baeza-Y ates and G Na v arro F ast approximate string matching in a dictionary in String Processing and Information Retrieval  1998 pp 14Ö22  C F aloutsos and K.-I Lin F astmap a f ast algorithm for inde xing data-mining and visualization of traditional and multimedia datasets in Proceedings of the 1995 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data  ser SIGMOD 95 New York NY USA ACM 1995 pp 163Ö174  E Cha v ez G Na v arro R A Baeza-Y ates and J L Marroquin Searching in metric spaces ACM Computing Surveys  vol 33 no 3 pp 273Ö321 2001  A McCallum K Nigam and L H Ungar  Ef cient clustering of highdimensional data sets with application to reference matching 2000  L Sarmento A K ehlenbeck E C Oli v eira and L H Ungar  An approach to web-scale named-entity disambiguation in Machine Learning and Data Mining in Pattern Recognition 6th International Conference MLDM 2009 Leipzig Germany July 23-25 2009 Proceedings  ser Lecture Notes in Computer Science P Perner Ed vol 5632 Springer 2009 pp 689Ö703  A Bagga and B Baldwin Entity-based cross-document coreferencing using the vector space model in Proceedings of the 17th international conference on Computational Linguistics ACL 1998  1998 pp 79Ö88  C H Gooi and J Allan Cross-document coreference on a lar ge scale corpus in HLT-NAACLê04  2004 pp 9Ö16  M W ick S Singh and A McCallum  A discriminati v e hierarchical model for fast coreference at large scale in Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics Long Papers Volume 1  ser ACL 12 Stroudsburg PA USA Association for Computational Linguistics 2012 pp 379Ö388  L K olb A Thor  and E Rahm Load balancing for mapreducebased entity resolution in Data Engineering ICDE 2012 IEEE 28th International Conference on  2012 pp 618Ö629  A Haghighi and D Klein Unsupervised coreference resolution in a nonparametric bayesian model in Proceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the Association of Computational Linguistics  Prague Czech Republic Association for Computational Linguistics June 2007 pp 848Ö855 A v ailable http://www acl web or g anthology/P07-1107  J H Friedman and U F ayyad On bias v ariance 0/1-loss and the curse-of-dimensionality Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 1 pp 55Ö77 1997 27 


             Fig 9 Statistical information about candidate route stops for 3 OD pairs    Fig 10 Detected skyline routes and other candidate routes routes include 13 or 14 stops  The statistical results comply with the intuition that the longer distance of a given OD pair the more stops the route would contain 3 Skyline Routes We show the skyline routes for the OD pair 2 in Fig 10 Each point in the plane represents a candidate route The x-axis stands for the total travel time of candidate route while the y-axis represents the expected number of passengers From Fig 10 we can see that the skyline routes are connected to form a curve above all the points representing common routes and over 99 of the routes are dominated by the few skyline routes Speciìcally we get 40 skyline routes across all the travel time frames out of hundreds of thousands of routes for the case of OD pair 2 Similar phenomena have been observed for other two cases as well 4 Comparison with topk spreading algorithm In topk spreading algorithm the selection of k is vital to the skyline routes generated as well as the time needed to generate all the candidate routes In particular when k 1 k 2 wehave R k 1 R k 2  k 1  k 2   Theorem 1 guarantees that a bigger k would lead to a better set of skyline routes However the greater k also results in signiìcantly increase of time cost We compare the skyline routes generated from the probability based spreading method with that from the topk spreading method with different k value which is shown in Fig 11 We can see that the probability based spreading approach outperforms the topk algorithms even when k is set to 5 C Comparison with Real Routes As the taxi GPS dataset we have was collected from April 2009 to March 2010 we are very interested in knowing if there was any new night-bus route created during this year and how the planned bus route generated with our approach compares with the manually created route Fortunately we were told that a night-bus route was created in February 2010 we could   Fig 11 Comparison results with baseline under different k values access all the taxi passenger ows before the route started date It is noted that the route is designed by local experts and the user demands are obtained from expensive human survey We rst draw the newly started night-bus route on Google map as shown in Fig 12 left bottom then we draw our proposed night-bus route R 1 in Fig 12 left top Through comparison we see that they are quite different With the newly started route we decide to take a similar route in our selected candidate bus routes not the best one and we nd R 2 as shown in Fig 12 left top It is noted that the main difference between R 2 and the newly started route is that R 2 includes an additional Stop J in the route By comparing the passenger ow in segment I  K with that in segment J  K at different time slots it is found that the passenger ow in path J  Kis even greater than I  K in the rst two time slots as shown in Fig 12 right top Considering further the accumulation effects including Stop J in the bus route would signiìcantly increase the expected number of passengers along the route Thus our candidate bus route R 2 would outperform the newly added bus route at the cost of adding one more bus stop and more travel time We also compare our proposed best route R 1 with the candidate route R 2  The difference between R 1 and R 2 lies in two different paths taken from C to H While R 2 passes the famous shopping street Yanêan Road in Hangzhou  C  E  F  H  R 1 traverses the famous night-club areas along the West Lake If we compare the number of passengers in R 1 and R 2  it can be seen from Fig 12 right bottom that the passenger ow of R 2 is heavier than that of R 1 only around 22:00 and it is much lighter soon after 23:00 With the rest of the stops being the same for both R 1 and R 2  there is no doubt about why R 1 has been selected as the best night-bus route If we take a closer look at R 1  R 2  and the newly started route as R 1 takes a much shorter route than R 2 and needs similar travel time as the newly started route does but R 1 expects much more passengers than R 2 and the newly started route thus it is reasonable to conclude that the selected night-bus route with our proposed approach is better than the current route-in-service in terms of travel time as well as expected number of passengers VI C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE W ORK In this paper we have investigated the problem of nightbus route design by leveraging the taxi GPS traces which 232 


     Fig 12 Results comparison Planned routes top left Passenger ow comparison of two segments at different frequency top right Opened nightbus routes bottom left Number of delivered passengers at different frequency  R 1 vs R 2  bottom right is motivated by the needs of applying pervasive sensing communication and computing technology for sustainable city development To solve the problem we propose a two-phase approach for night-bus route planning In the rst phase we devise method to identify locations of the candidate bus stops with the passenger pick-ups and drop-offs as inputs In the second phase with the bus route origin destination and candidate bus stops as inputs we develop two heuristic algorithms to automatically generate candidate bus routes and nally we select the best route which expects the maximum number of passengers under the given conditions On a real-world dataset which contains more than 1.57 million passenger delivery trips we compare our proposed candidate bus stop identiìcation method with the popular k means clustering method and show that our method can generate more reasonable and meaningful results We further extensively evaluate our proposed probability based spreading algorithm for automatic bus route generation and validate its effectiveness as well as its superior performance over the heuristic topk spreading algorithm Further more we show the selected night-bus route with our proposed approach is better than a newly started night-bus route-in-service in Hangzhou China This work is among our initial attempts to apply pervasive computing techniques in achieving better urban planning of smart cities With the constraints of the approach and the acquired data this work still has several limitations 1 Human mobility patterns uncovered by taxi GPS traces are biased and incomplete thus the designed bus route might not be the best considering the fact that taxi trafìc does not reîect the whole passenger ow and people taking taxis might not be willing to switch to public transport for various reasons 2 The work makes some assumptions in problem formulation and evaluation for example for bus stop determination we set the walkable distance as 500 meters and the threshold for cluster split and merge is 150 meters apparently the choice of those parameters would affect the results but a study of the parameter sensitivity is not provided due to the space limitation 3 Currently we only explore the issue of designing the best bus route for a given OD pair the proposed approach is still unable to tackle the design of a bus route network In the future we plan to broaden and deepen this work in several directions First we attempt to investigate the optimal bus route design with more real-life assumptions such as varied bus operation frequency and limited bus capacity Second we plan to study the impact of parameter change on the bus route design and the added bus route on the taxi services along the bus route Third we would like to develop practical systems leveraging on taxi GPS traces enabling a series of pervasive smart transportation services A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS We would like to thank the shepherd Dr Petteri Nurmi and the reviewers for their constructive suggestions This research was partially supported by the Paris-Region SYSTEM@TIC Smart City AQUEDUC Program NSF of China No 61105043 and JiangsuSF BK2011566 R EFERENCES  D L Apple gate R E Bixby  V  Chv atal and W  J Cook The Traveling Salesman Problem A Computational Study  Princeton University Press 2007  F  Bastani Y  Huang X Xie and J W  Po well A greener transportation mode exible routes discovery from GPS trajectory data In Proc of GIS  pages 405Ö408 2011  L Cao and J Krumm From GPS traces to a routable road map In Proc of the ACM GIS  pages 3Ö12 2009  P  S Castro D Zhang and S Li Urban traf c modelling and prediction using large scale taxi GPS traces In Proc of Pervasive Computing  pages 57Ö72 2012  T  A Chua The planning of urban b u s routes and frequencies A surv e y  Transportation  12\(2 1984  Y  Ge H Xiong A T uzhilin K Xiao M Gruteser  and M P azzani An energy-efìcient mobile recommender system In Proc of ACM SIGKDD  pages 899Ö908 2010  V  Guihaire and J.-K Hao T ransit netw ork design and scheduling A global review Transportation Research Part A Policy and Practice  42\(10  1273 2008  L Liu C Andris and C Ratti Unco v ering cabdri v ers beha vior patterns from their digital traces Computers Environment and Urban Systems  34\(6  548 2010  B M.H and M H.S TR UST A Lisp program for the analysis of transit route conìgurations Transportation Research Record  1283:125Ö135 1990  G F  Ne well Some issues relating to the optimal design of b u s routes Transportation Science  13\(1 1979  G P an G Qi Z W u  D  Zhang and S Li Land-use classiìcation using taxi GPS traces IEEE Trans on ITS  99 2012  Z W ang and J Cro wcroft Analysis of shortest-path routing algorithms in a dynamic network environment SIGCOMM Comput Commun Rev  22\(2 1992  J Y uan Y  Zheng and X Xie Disco v ering re gions of dif ferent functions in a city using human mobility and POIs In Proc of ACM SIGKDD  pages 186Ö194 2012  J Y uan Y  Zheng C Zhang W  Xie X Xie G Sun and Y  Huang T-drive driving directions based on taxi trajectories In Proc of the GIS  pages 99Ö108 2010  J Y uan Y  Zheng L Zhang X Xie and G Sun Where to nd my next passenger In Proc of UbiComp  pages 109Ö118 2011  D Zhang B Guo and Z Y u  The emer gence of social and community intelligence Computer  44\(7 28 2011  D Zhang N Li Z.-H Zhou C Chen L Sun and S Li iB A T  detecting anomalous taxi trajectories from GPS traces In Proc of UbiComp  pages 99Ö108 2011  Y  Zheng Y  Liu J Y uan and X Xie Urban computing with taxicabs In Proc of UbiComp  pages 89Ö98 2011 233 


Control and Prediction of Beliefs on Social Network Beamforming and Array Signal Processing Robust Source Localization and Tracking using MUSIC-Group Delay Spectrum\ over Spherical Arrays Bayesian Cyclic Bounds for Periodic Parameter Estimation Performance of TOA and FOA-based Localization for Cospas-Sarsat Search a\nd Rescue Signals Performance Analysis of ESPRIT-Type Algorithms for Strictly Non-Circular\ Sources Using Structured Least Squares Approximate maximum likelihood direction of arrival estimation for two c\losely spaced sources Adaptive Beamforming with Augmentable Arrays in Non-Stationary Environme\nts On an Iterative Method for Direction of Arrival Estimation using Multipl\e Frequencies Filter Bank Based Fractional Delay Filter Implementation for Widely Accu\rate Broadband Steering Vectors Experimental Results of Compressive Sensing Based Imaging in Ultrasonic \Non-Destructive Testing Sparsity-Enforcing Sensor Selection for DOA Estimation 


Constrained Imaging for Radio Astronomy Advances in Sequential Monte Carlo Methods A Rao-Blackwellized Random Exchange Diffusion Particle Filter for Distri\buted Emitter Tracking Particle Filtering for High-Dimensional Systems On Marginal Particle Filters with Linear Complexity Particle Filtering with Progressive Gaussian Approximations to the Optim\al Importance Density Particle filtering with transformed weights Particle filter implementation of the multi-Bernoulli filter for superpo\sitional sensors Satellite Communications - Signal Processing Challenges      Spectrum Sensing for Cognitive Radio Systems Adaptive Block Sampling for Spectrum Sensing Distributed Spectrum Sensing in Cognitive Radios via Graphical Models Frequency Domain Distributed OFDM Source Detection 


Cyclostationary Detection from Sub-Nyquist Samples for Cognitive Radios:\ Model Reconciliation Dynamic Learning for Cognitive Radio Sensing Distributed Spectrum Sensing in the Presence of Selfish Users Radar Array Processing and STAP Root-MUSIC Based Source Localization Using Transmit Array Interpolation \in MIMO Radar With Arbitrary Planar Arrays Aperture Varying Autoregressive Covariance Modeling for 2D Oversampled R\eceive Arrays DOA Estimation Using a Sparse Uniform Linear Array with Two CW Signals o\f Co-prime Frequencies Invariant Target Detection of MIMO Radar with Unknown Parameters Multidimensional Low-Rank Filter based on the AU-HOSVD for MIMO STAP Cyber Attacks on a Power Grid and Counter Measures     Signal and Information Processing in Energy Grids 


A Framework for Actuator Placement in Large Scale Power Systems: Minimal\ Strong Structural Controllability Dynamic Topology Adaptation for Distributed Estimation in Smart Grids Study of Nonlinear Power Optimization Problems using Algebraic Graph The\ory Advances in Decentralized State Estimation for Power Systems Monitoring Disturbances in Smart Grids Using Distributed Sequential Chan\ge Detection Online Learning of Load Elasticity for Electric Vehicle Charging Cognitive Radio and Radar Networks Compressive Angular and Frequency Periodogram Reconstruction for Multiba\nd Signals A Bilateral-Market based Mechanism for Spectrum Allocation in Cognitive \Radio Networks Adaptive PRF Selection Technique for Multiple Targets in Track-Before-De\tect Primary Receiver Localization Using Sparsity and Interference Tweets Distributed Throughput Maximization for Multi-Channel ALOHA Networks Estimation, Learning, and Optimization for the Smart Grids Hybrid Energy Storage and Generation Planning with Large Renewable Penet\ration 


Estimating Frequency of Three-Phase Power Systems via Widely-Linear Mode\ling and Total Least-Squares Distributed Demand Response for Plug-in Electrical Vehicles in the Smart\ Grid Stochastic Programming for Energy Planning in Microgrids with Renewables Wireless Communications Optimization of the Rate Adaptation Procedures in xDSL Systems Expected Likelihood Support for Blind SIMO Channel Identification Error Exponents for Bias Detection of a Correlated Process over a MAC Fa\ding Channel Known-Interference Aware Iterative MMSE Filter Design for Non-Regenerati\ve Multi-Way Relaying Multicast Relay Beamforming through Dual Approach Reduced-Complexity Distributed Beamforming Algorithm for Individual Rela\y Power Constraints Multi-Relay Network Design Using Power-Normalized SNR 


15   daily dose equivalents due to GCR exposure is found to be 2.03\32710 4 Sv d 1 and 2.31\32710 4 Sv d 1 respectively. For a wall thickness of 27.0 g cm 2 these values were determined to be 4.27\32710 4 Sv d 1 and 3.56\32710 4 Sv d 1 These results are consistent with the previous results in the sense the build-up from the adjacent modules will act in a similar manner as the increased shielding thickness in the simple cylinder simulations. This build-up effect is less significant for TR exposures. These results demonstrate that in addition to the distribution of shielding within any module, the geometry of the ISS itself also plays an important role. This exercise illustrates the complexity associated with the modelling of the radiation environment inside the ISS 5  S UMMARY  A semi-empirical model has been developed for possible use in radiation mission planning aboard the International Space Station \(ISS\his semi-empirical model is derived from operational data obtained with a tissue equivalent proportional counter \(TEPC\that were collected aboard the ISS from 2001 and 2008 and provides estimates of the TEPC measured operational quantity of dose equivalent due to GCR and TR exposures for a given set of ISS statevectors. The GCR model provides a correlation of the TEPC dose equivalent rate to the effective vertical cutoff rigidity Influences of altitude and localized shielding dependencies on the GCR dose equivalent rate have been shown to be negligible. To account for moderate solar activity, the heliocentric potential parameter U is used to provide a linear interpolation between solar maximum and minimum conditions. The GCR model is valid for all locations inside the ISS. The TR model correlates the mean daily TEPC dose equivalent rate to the mean atmospheric density at the crossing of the South Atlantic Anomaly \(SAA\etric models were developed to specifically provide exposure estimates of the TEPC dose equivalent for all passes over the SAA and including ascending and descending components individually. The TR model is valid for the TEPC located at Zvezda Service Module Panel 327 \(SM327\d for an orientation perpendicular to the ISS velocity vector. The influence of the TEPC detector orientation on the TR dose equivalent was shown to be important. The model has been implemented into a code called ISSCREM and benchmarked against TEPC data not used in the model development. The model has successfully predicted the GCR and TR dose equivalent components to within \26110% and \26120%, respectively over periods of time ranging from daily dose estimates to a cumulative dose estimates collected over many months. A sensitivity analysis on the solar activity inputs used in the predictive models for GCR and TR exposures have demonstrated that the model behaves well given projected solar activity indices In addition to predictions of the dose equivalent, estimates of the protection quantity of effective dose equivalent have been made using the Particle and Heavy Ion Transport Code System \(PHITS\ Ambient-to-effective dose equivalent conversion factors E  H  10\ have been determined for simple and complex representations of the ISS Zvezda Service Module. These conversion factors have been determined for GCR and TR exposures at solar maximum and minimum conditions and for varying wall thicknesses ranging from 5.4 g cm 2 to 27.0 g cm 2 Al. Preliminary results indicate that the TEPC dose equivalent provides a conservative estimate of the protection quantity of effective dose equivalent R EFERENCES  1  Reitz, G., Facius, R., Sandler, H. \223Radiation Protection in Space\224. Acta Astronautica, Vol. 35, pp. 313-338 1995 2  Tascione, T. \223Introduction to the Space Environment 2 nd Edition\224. Orbit, 1994 3  Bothmer, V. and Daglis, I. \223Space Weather Physics and Effects\224. Springer, 2009 4  Heinrich, W., Roesler, S., Schraube, H. \223Physics of Cosmic Radiation Fields\224. Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol. 86, pp. 253 \226 258, 1999 5  Badhwar, G. D. \223The Radiation Environment in LowEarth Orbit\224. Radiation Research, Vol. 148, pp. S3 \226 S10, 1997 6  223Report G-083-1999: Guide to Modeling Earth\222s Trapped Radiation Environment\224. American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 1999 7  Smart, D. F., Shea, M. A., Fluckiger, E. O 223Magnetospheric Models and Trajectory Computations\224. Space Science Reviews, Vol. 93, pp 305 \226 333, 2000 8  Hartmann, G. A. and Pacca, I. G. \223Time Evolution of the South Atlantic Magnetic Anomaly\224. Annals of the Brazilian Academy of Sciences, Vol. 81, pp. 243 \226 255, 2009 9  Badhwar, G. D. \223Drift Rate of the South Atlantic Anomaly\224. Journal of Geophysical Research, Vol. 102 pp. 2343 \226 2349, 1997 10  Heynderickx, D., \223Comparison Between Methods to Compensate for the Secular Motion of the South Atlantic Anomaly\224. Radiation Measurements, Vol. 26 pp. 369 \226 373, 1997 11  Furst, F., Wilms, J., Rothschilde, R. E., Pottschmidt K., Smith D. M., Ligenfelter, R. \223Temporal Variations of Strength and Location of the South Atlantic Anomaly as Measured by RXTE\224. Earth and Planetary Science Letters, Vol. 281, pp. 125 \226 133, 2009 12  Badhwar, G. D., Shurshakov, V. A., Tsetlin, V. V 223Solar Modulation of Dose Rate Onboard the Mir Station\224. Transactions on Nuclear Science, Vol. 44, pp 2529 \226 2541, 1997 13  Golightly, M. J., Badhwar, G. D., Dunlap, M. J., Patel S. H. \223Solar-Cycle Modulation of the Trapped Proton Radiation Exposure Inside the Space Shuttle\224. Solar 


16   Drivers of Interplanetary and Terrestrial Disturbances Vol. 95, pp. 505 \226 517, 1996 14  Badhwar, G. D. \223Radiation Dose Rates in Space Shuttle as a Function of Atmospheric Density\224 Radiation Measurements, Vol. 30, pp. 401 \226 414 1999 15  O\222Neill, P. M. and Badhwar, G. D. \223Galactic Cosmic Radiation Model and its Applications\224. Advances in Space Research, Vol. 17, pp. 7 \226 17, 1996 16  Lewis, B. J., Bennett, L. G. I., Green, A. R., McCall M. J., Ellaschuk, B., Butler, A., Pierre, M. \223Galactic and Solar Radiation Exposure to Aircrew during a Solar Cycle\224. Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol 102, pp. 207 \226 227, 2002 17  Lewis, B. J., Tume, P., Bennett, L. G. I., Pierre, M Green, A. R., Cousins, T., Hoffarth, B. E., Jones, T. A Brisson, J. R. \223Cosmic Radiation Exposure on Canadian-Based Commercial Airline Routes\224 Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol. 86, pp. 7 \226 24 1999 18  K. Niita, N. Matsuda, Y. Iwamoto, H. Iwase, T. Sato H. Nakashima, Y. Sakamoto and L. Sihver, PHITS Particle and Heavy Ion Transport code System Version 2.23, JAEA-Data/Code 2010-022 \(2010 19  El-Jaby, S., \223A Model for Predicting Radiation Exposure for Mission Planning Aboard the International Space Station\224. Royal Military College of Canada, 2012 20  Space Radiation Analysis Group NASA. [Private Communicatio  21  223Goddard Space Flight Center Space Physics Data Facility\224. National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Available from http://cdaweb.gsfc.nasa.gov 22  Smart, D. F., Shea, M. A., Tylka, A. J., Boberg, P. R 223A Geomagnetic Cutoff rigidity Interpolation Tool Accuracy Verification and Application to Space Weather\224. Advances in Space Research, Vol. 37, pp 1206 \226 1217, 2006 23  Smart, D. F. and Shea, M. A. \223A Review of Geomagnetic Cutoff Rigidities for Earth-Orbiting Spacecraft\224. Advances in Space Research, Vol. 36, pp 2012 \226 2020, 2005 24  Ersmark, T., Carlson, P., Daly, E., Fuglesang, C Gudowska, I., Lund-Jensen, B., Nieminen, P., Pearce M., Santin, G. \223Geant4 Monte Carlo Simulations of the Belt Proton Radiation Environment On Board the International Space Staiton/Columbus\224. IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science, Vol. 54, pp. 1444 \226 1453, 2007 25  Ersmark, T., Carlson, P., Daly, E., Fuglesang, C Gudowska, I., Lund-Jensen, B., Nieminen, P., Pearce M., Santin, G. \223Geant4 Monte Carlo Simulations of the Galactic Cosmic Ray Radiation Environment On Board the International Space Staiton/Columbus\224 IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science, Vol. 54, pp 1854 \226 1862, 2007 26  O\222Brien, K., Felsberger, E., Kindl, P. \223Application of the Heliocentric Potential to Aircraft Dosimetry\224 Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol. 116, pp. 336 \226 342, 2005 27  223Heliocentric Potential\224. Federal Aviation Administration, 2012. Available from http://www.faa.gov/data_research/research/med_huma nfacs/aeromedical/radiobiology/heliocentric 28  O\222Brien, T. P. \223NRLMSIS-00 MATLAB Script Routine\224. Office National d\222Etudes et Recherches A\351rospatiales \(ONERA 29  223National Geophysical Data Center\224. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 2012. Available from ftp://ftp.ngdc.noaa.gov/STP/SOLAR_DATA/SUNSPO T_NUMBERS/INTERNATIONAL 30  Easley, S. M. \(Capt. USAF\\223Anisotropy in the South Atlantic Anomaly\224. Wright-Patterson Air Force Base Department of the Air Force Air University \226 Air Force Institute of Technology, 2007 31  Dachev, T. P., Semkova, J., Tomov, B., Matviichuk Y., Dimitrov, P., Koleva, R., Malchev, S., Reitz, G Horneck, G., De Angelis, G., Hader, D., Petrov, V Shurshakov, V., Benghin, V., Chernykh, I Drobyshev, S., Bankov, N. G. \223Space Shuttle Drops Down the SAA Doses on ISS\224. Advances in Space Research, Vol. 47, Issue 11, Pages. 2030 \226 2038, 2011 32  223ICRP 103: The 2007 Recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological Protection\224 International Commission on Radiological Protection 2007 33  Lewis, B. J., Desormeaux, M., Green, A. R., Bennett L. G. I., Butler, A., McCall, M., Saex Vergara, J. C 223Assessment of Aircrew Radiation Exposure by Further Measurements and Model Development\224 Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol. 111, pp. 151 \226 171, 2004 34  Sato, T., Endo, A., Zankl, M., Petoussi-Henss, N Yasuda H., Niita, K. \223Fluence-to-dose conversion coefficients for aircrew dosimetry based on the new ICRP Recommendations\224, Progress in Nuclear Science and Technology, Vol. 1, pp. 134 \226 137, 2011 35  Sato, T., Endo, A., Zankl, M., Petoussi-Henss, N Yasuda H., Niita, K. \223Fluence-to-dose conversion coefficients for neutrons and protons calculated using the PHITS code and ICRP/ICRU adult reference computational phantoms\224, Physics in Medicine and Biology, Vol. 54, pp. 1997 \226 2014, 2009 36  Sato, T., Endo, A., Niita, K. \223Fluence-to-dose conversion coefficients for heavy ions calculated using the PHITS code and ICRP/ICRU adult reference computational phantoms\224, Physics in Medicine and Biology, Vol. 55, pp. 2235 \226 2246, 2010 37  223Cosmic Ray Effects on Micro-Electronics Code\224 Venderbilt University School of Engineering, 2012 Available from: https://creme.isde.vanderbilt.edu 


17   38  Gustafsson, K., Sihver, L., Mancusi, D., Sato, T Niita, K. \223Simulations of the Radiation Environment at ISS Altitudes\224. Acta Astronautica, Vol. 65, pp. 279 \226 288, 2009 39  Koliskova, Z., Sihver, L., Ambrozova, I., Sato, t Spurny, Shurshakov, V. A. \223Simulations of Absorbed Dose on the Phantom Surface of MATROSHKA-R Experiment at the ISS\224. Advances in Space Research Vol. 49, pp. 230 \226 236, 2012 40  Gustafsson, K., Sihver, L., Mancusi, D., Sato, T Reitz, G., Berger, T. \223PHITS Simulations of the Matroshka Experiment\224. Advances in Space Research Vol. 46, pp. 1266 \226 1272, 2010 41  223Zvezda Service Module\224. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2012. Available from http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/structure/e lements/sm.html 42  223Zarya Module\224. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2012. Available from http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/structure/e lements/fgb.html 43  223Pirs Docking Compartment\224. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2012. Available from http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/structure/e lements/pirs.html 44  Sihver, L., Sato, T., Gustafsson, K., Mancusi, D Iwase, H., Niita, K., Nakashima, H., Sakamoto, Y Iwamoto, Y., Matsuda, N. \223An Update About Recent Developments of the PHITS Code\224. Advances in Space Research, Vol. 45, pp. 892 \226 899, 2010 45  Sihver, L., Sato, T., Puchalska, M., Reitz, G 223Simulations of the MATROSHKA  Experiment at the International Space Station Using PHITS\224. Radiation and Environmental Biophysics, Vol. 49, pp. 351 \226 357 2010 46  Puchalska, M., Sihver, L., Sato, T., Berger, T 223Simulations of MATROSHKA experiments at ISS using PHITS\224, Advances in Space Research, Vol. 50 pp. 489-495,  2012 47  V. McLane et al 223ENDF/B-VI Summary Documentation\224, BNL-NCS-17541, 1996 48  K. Shibata et al 223Japanese Evaluated Nuclear Data Library Version 3 Revision-3: JENDLE-3.3\224, Journal of Nuclear Science and Technology, Vol. 39, pp. 1125 226 1134, 2002 49  Y. Watanabe et al 223Nuclear data evaluations for JENDL high-energy file\224, Proceedings of International Conference on Nuclear Data for Science and Technology, Santa Fe, USA, Sep.26-Oct.1, 2004; AIP CP769, p326-331, 2005 50  Y. Nara et al 223Relativistic nuclear collisions at 10A GeV energies from p+Be to Au+Au with the hadronic cascade model\224, Physics Review C, Vol. 61, I.D 024901, 1999 51  T. Fukahori et al 223JENDL High Energy File\224, Journal of Nuclear Science and Technology, Suppl  2, 25-30 2002 52  Ziegler, J. F. and Biersack, J. P. \223SRIM \226 The Stopping and Range of Ions in Matter\224. 2012 Available from: http://www.srim.org/#SRIM 53  Sato, T., Endo, A., Sihver, L., Niita, K. \223Dose Estimation for Astronauts Using Dose Conversion Coefficients Calculated with the PHITS code and the ICRP/ICRU adult reference computation phantoms\224 Radiation and Environmental Biophysics, Vol. 50, pp 115 \226 123, 2011 54  Pelliccioni, M. \223Overview of Fluence-to-Effective Dose and Fluence-to-Ambient Dose Equivalent Conversion Coefficients for High Energy Radiation Calculated Using the FLUKA Code\224. Radiation Protection Dosimetry, Vol. 88, Issue 4, pp. 279 \226 297 2000 B IOGRAPHY  In 2007 Samy El-Jaby received his B.A.Sc. in Engineering Physics from Queen\222s University, Canada. From 2007 to 2009, he earned a MSc in Medical Physics at McGill University and following this, he completed a PhD in Nuclear Engineering from the Royal Military College of Canada where his focus was on the topic of radiation dosimetry for space-crew aboard the ISS. Currently, he is a Postdoctoral Fellow at Atomic Energy of Canada Limited where he is continuing research into space radiation dosimetry Brent Lewis \(BSc in Physics 1978, MEng in Aerospace Science and Engineering, 1980 and PhD in Nuclear Engineering 1984 from the University of Toronto\ a Professor of Nuclear Engineering in the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering at the Royal Military College of Canada \(RMC\ince 1988 Previously, he worked at Atomic Energy of Canada Limited from 1980-1988 where he was section head of fuel performance modelling at the Chalk River Laboratories.  His research has principally focused on nuclear fuel behaviour for normal and reactor accident conditions as well as aircrew/spacecrew radiation exposure. He has received several awards from the American Nuclear Society, appointed a fellow of the Canadian Nuclear Society in 2002 and received the university research excellence prize in 2007. He was also awarded an NSERC/UNENE/COG Industrial Research Chair in Nuclear Fuel in September 2007 


18   Leena Tomi began work with the Canadian Space Agency in 1989 is currently the Deputy Director of Operational Space Medicine OSM\roup. She is also responsible for the OSM Space Radiation as well as the Human Behaviour and Performance activities carried out by the CSA and works intimately with the CSA Astronaut Office to ensure that CSA astronauts are provided the support they require to carry out their missions  In 1986 Lembit Sihver received his MSc in Chemical Engineering at the Royal Institute of Technology \(KTH Stockholm, Sweden. In 1988 he received his Licentiate of Technology in Nuclear Chemistry/Nuclear Physics, Uppsala University Uppsala, Sweden, and in 1990 he became Dr. of Technology \(PhD Nuclear Chemistry/Nuclear Physics at Uppsala University. Sihver is a full Professor of Nuclear Science and Engineering and Head of the Nuclear Science and Engineering Research Group, Division of Nuclear Engineering, Dept. of Applied Physics, at Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden. He is an Adjunct Professor at the Royal Military College of Canada, as well as at Roanoke College, University of Houston, and Texas A&M University in the USA, and at the Medical College of Soochow University in China. Sihver\222s major research areas are heavy ion physics, particle and heavy ion transport, heavy ion therapy, space radiation shielding and space dosimetry In 2001 Tatsuhiko Sato received his PhD in Nuclear Engineering at Kyoto University. Since 2001 he has worked in Japan Atomic Energy Agency \(JAEA\ for developing the Particle and Heavy Ion Transport code System PHITS, especially in terms of the radiation protection and medical physics. He is a member of the task group on radiation protection in space in International Committee on Radiological Protection \(ICRP His major research areas are radiation biophysics, nuclear reaction model radiation protection and cosmic-ray transport simulation   Dr. Kerry T. Lee has been a Physical Scientist at NASA/JSC since 2009 and is currently the head of the Space Radiation Analysis Group at NASA/JSC       Steve Johnson received his B.S. in Nuclear Engineering in 1977 and PhD in Aerospace Engineering Sciences in 1990.  Prior to working at the Johnson Space Center, he worked nuclear reactor plant start-up projects with the U.S. Navy and with Louisiana Power and Light Waterford 3 nuclear power plant, the first in plant operations and the latter as an integrated test engineer.  Since arriving at Johnson Space Center in 1990, primary efforts focused on Space Station projects supporting the radiation monitoring system, and radiation investigations on both the space shuttle and the NASA/Mir program.  In 1998 he moved to the Space Radiation Analysis Group which is responsible for supporting manned space flight as operational members of mission control regarding radiation health protection for the crew during flight. His primary focus is on operational aspects of space weather monitoring and evaluating space radiation measurements on ISS   


aZN%.#1064'6%"#%56;6#,6 4/4%C33 S+#/6'/%c%Z  3 


 


Q 60163/"+#%+7  S+d6`"'/%W"/=%e  56f,"06L6  6#/"4 6L4  567606#16 Q0"16  S+L36  4$6    563  





               Q0"16 Q W60 1+#',L3 Q 607+0L4#16  4004 366 g>++/"#$%-366&h 366 g>++/"#$%-366&h 366 g>++/"#$%-366&h 


    0   1 1   2 3  4 1 5    Ci\(85i925  V-%E A QTCS8 4/4%C33 04#&%Q0"j6 


C#4 4 





0.00  1.00  2.00  0  0  0  0.00  1.00  2.00  6#/"L6#/%!43 1,/6  3061 1  6#60 6/"1  T+;6  R06  306  306      1+#7 6  6     36076 1  0   _64 7  6  0$6  1 4/,0 4 3 14 6 _0 W40L 640 6 4//041 6 7 16 L40 6 6 3 4 7 1=660 7 1 7066 6`1  433  7  1="1 6 6 160 6 60  0416 7    40D     j  46*6    C  9"L 46 e66  e4 4  T66  l  B   0  40D     T66 e*+0  9"L 4  Ad 404  e4%l   T66%l C  ZB8E  l4 96 D  T66 6   l e   l    5 e S=6  S=4 6    40D l    l46 D  l _   04   40D e4#d _*6   e404  9404  l,#%l"d   F  6   60 0   l"d   S 9W   l 9  40D l    e   9"L e*6    6d 9     


0.00  1.00  2.00  1.00  2.00  1.00  0.00  1.00  2.00  0416 7  1  3 14 6  mn  op 3061 1  6 6  6     4//041 6  7066 7  1=660 7  36076 1 1+L7 0/4_ 6  _64 7  f,"6  1,/6  W40L 640 6  306  1+#7 6 P"$+0   433  6  q+*7  B4/,0 4  6  rsp  D   16  Q0+&,1/H%2114'"+#%b%>04  6#/"L6#/%!43 L+;"6  Q0 _4'6_ 4  4L6  04L 4  140  6 60  l64  6$6 40"4  0"3 1+776 6  l   L,'"1  1++D   0"3  14L3   33   0   3"1#"1  70"6  W4  _"1*1 6  14  3,33   W"#6  140   CL 6L6 340D  1+776 6  7 6 S=4 6#$6  4/6    06  S+,3 6%0  06'/4 04  D  q64  306'6   L40 3 6  66  414   4W  e 46  46W   40  46 4D%0  4 4L 4   4L1 6    1476  W66D 6  2 04  S+6  4 Q 6  4'D  5+__  9K  4   64   S+776 6 64  e60L 6  S=4 6  56   40 4 6//6 Q04&4  e4jj   2  9"6  0$6 0%9  T    40_ 1D  _     


_64,/"7  6$6/40 4  9"6  S+LL,#"14 2 04  


  


  


 6L+$04 3="1 Q 01=4'6 e"'/+0 S 064L T+14 56'3+#'6 54/6 ttt  64/=60 64 S+#',L6 4//60 1+L6 T6;6 R 3  ttt  1"4 R 660 Q06'',06 6'"06 4 Q067606#1 6 T"76 8L 4 6#/"L6  ttt  S,'/+L60 C1  60 564  2,/'"&6 40"4_  


4/4%7+0%M:#&60'/4#&"#$%<=*O 016u%Q0+76''+0%\(06$%C  T61/,06%B+/6 


v wx yz   


            





A Parallel Hybrid Genetic Algorithm on Cloud Computing for the Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows 2467 AndrÈ Siqueira Ruela, Frederico Gadelha Guimar„es Ricardo Augusto Rabelo Oliveira, Brayan Neves, Vicente Peixoto Amorim and Larissa Maiara Fraga A Hybrid Technique Using Multi-objective Particle Swarm Optimization and Random Forests for PROBE Attacks Detection in a Network 2473 Arif Jamal Malik and Farrukh Aslam Khan Innovative Technologies and Applications in Computer Intelligence - C04-02 Strategy Selection by Reinforcement Learning for Multi-car Elevator Systems 2479 Masaki Ikuta, Kenichi Takahashi, and Michimasa Inaba Deep Belief Network for Modeling Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning Policies 2485 Predrag D. Djurdjevic and Manfred Huber Artificial Neural Network Analysis of Twin Tunnelling-Induced Ground Settlements 2492 Seyed Amin Khatami, Alireza Mirhabibi, Abbas Khosravi, and Saeid Nahavandi A New Approach Based on Support Vector Machine for Solving Stochastic Optimization 2498 Seyed Amin Khatami, Abbas Khosravi, and Saeid Nahavandi Neuroevolution by Particle Swarm Optimization with Adaptive Input Selection for Controlling Platform-Game Agent 2504 Akira Hara, Jun-ichi Kushida, Koji Kitao, and Tetsuyuki Takahama Profiling Student Learning Styles with Multilayer Perceptron Neural Networks 2510 Annabel Latham, Keeley Crockett, and David Mclean Intelligent Learning in Control Systems - S02-01 Design of Data-Oriented GMDH-Based Controller 2516 S. Wakitani, G. Martins, and T. Yamamoto Integrated Modeling for Intelligent Battery Thermal Management 2522 Zhen Liu and Han-Xiong Li Embedded Design of an Emotion-Aware Music Player 2528 Carlos A. Cervantes and Kai-Tai Song Direct Adaptive Fuzzy-Wavelet-Neural-Network Control for Electric Two-Wheeled Robotic Vehicles 2534 Ching-Chih Tsai and Ching-Chih Tsai 
xli 


Model-Based Indirect Learning Method Based on Dyna-Q Architecture 2540 Kao-Shing Hwang, Wei-Cheng Jiang, Yu-Jen Chen, and Wei-Han Wang A System-Level Approach for Model-Based Verification of Distributed Software Systems 2545 Seyedehmehrnaz Mireslami and Behrouz H. Far Medical Image and Signal Processing - S22-03 Right Ventricle Segmentation by Temporal Information Constrained Gradient Vector Flow 2551 Xulei Yang, Si Yong Yeo, Yi Su, Calvin Lim, Min Wan, Liang Zhong and Ru San Tan An Early Development of Force Distribution Sensor Using Pressure-Sensitive Conductive Rubber for Soft Tissue Balance in Total Knee Arthroplasty 2556 Mohd Hanafi Mat Som, Kouki Nagamune, Takashi Kamiya, Shogo Kawaguchi Tomoyuki Matsumoto, Ryosuke Kuroda, and Masahiro Kurosaka An Evaluation Method of Force Concentration in PS Type of Total Knee Arthroplasty with Force Distribution Measurement System 2561 Takashi Kamiya, Shogo Kawaguchi, Mohd Hanafi Mat Som, Kouki Nagamune Tomoyuki Matsumoto, Ryosuke Kuroda, and Masaliiro Kurosaka An Improved Binarisation Algorithm for Nailfold Capillary Skeleton Extraction 2565 Niraj P. Doshi, Gerald Schaefer, and Shao Ying Zhu Production of the Grounds for Melanoma Classification Using Adaptive Fuzzy Inference Neural Network 2570 Yuji Ikuma and Hitoshi lyatomi Approaches to General Purpose GPU Acceleration of Digital Signal Processing in Optical Coherence Tomography Systems 2576 K.I. Kapinchev, F.R.M. Barnes, A. Bradu, and A.Gh. Podoleanu Smart Technologies for Civil Applications of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles - H11-01 Doing the Right Thing: Collision Avoidance for Autonomous Air Vehicles 2581 Chinmay Mishra, Mitul Mehta, Elias J. Griffith, and Jason F. Ralph Equivalence of BRISK Descriptors for the Registration of Variable Bit-Depth Aerial Imagery 2587 Elias J. Griffith, Yuan Chi, Michael Jump, and Jason F. Ralph Invariant Observer Design of a RGB-D Aided Inertial System for MAV in GPS-Denied Environments 2593 Dachuan Li, Qing Li, Nong Cheng, Jingyan Song, Qinfan Wu, and Liangwen Tang 
xlii 


Safer Flying Using an Immune-Inspired Adaptive Health Monitoring System 2600 Maizura Mokhtar and Joe Howe Scheduling UAV Surveillance Tasks, Lessons Learned from Trials with Users 2606 Jeremy Baxter, Scott Findlay, Martin Paxton, Andrew Berry, and Jon Platts QinetiQ SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-15 Gastric Lymph Node Cancer Detection of Multiple Features Classifier for Pathology Diagnosis Support System 2611 Takumi Ishikawa, Junko Takahashi, Hiroshi Takemura, Hiroshi Mizoguchi and Takeshi Kuwata Modelling Prey in Discrete Time Predator-Prey Systems 2617 Rory Mullan, David H. Glass, and Mark McCartney A Measuring and Analysis Method of Coupled Range of Motion of the Human Hands 2623 Natsuki Miyata, Yuki Shimizu, and Yusuke Maeda Multi-objective Optimization Using Pareto GA for Gene-Selection from Microarray Data for Disease Classification 2629 Goutam Chakraborty and Basabi Chakraborty Grasp Database That Covers Variation of Contact Region Usage 2635 Natsuki Miyata, Takayoshi Hironom, and Yusuke Maeda An Empirical Investigation of Virtual Screening 2641 Amir Ali Rafati-Afshar and Abdelhamid Bouchachia SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-16 Transition Learning between Balanced Ensemble Learning and Negative Correlation Learning 2647 Yong Liu, Qiangfu Zhao, and Neil Yen Profit Sharing That Can Learn Deterministic Policy for POMDPs Environments by Kohonen Feature Map Associative Memory 2651 Daichi Koma and Yuko Osana Using Genetic Algorithm to Improve Classification Accuracy on Imbalanced Data 2659 Jair Cervantes, Xiaoou Li, and Wen Yu An Anomaly Analysis Method Based on Morphological Features 2665 Xiangzeng Kong, Yaxin Bi, and David H. Glass Learning Multi-level Local Phase Relationship for Single Image Resolution Enhancement 2671 Saibabu Arigela, Vijayan K. Asari, and Maher B. Qumsiyeh 
xliii 


Feature Selection by Iterative Block Addition and Block Deletion 2677 Shigeo Abe SMC: Human-Machine - HM-08 Development of Humanoid Robot Simulator for Gait Learning by Using Particle Swarm Optimization 2683 Ping-Huan Kuo, Ya-Fang Ho, Kai-Fan Lee, Li-Heng Tai, and Tzuu-Hseng S. Li Multi-view Facial Expression Recognition Using Parametric Kernel Eigenspace Method Based on Class Features 2689 Woo-han Yun, Dohyung Kim, Chankyu Park, and Jaehong Kim Automatic Realtime User Performance-Driven Avatar Animation 2694 Stephanie Behrens, Ayoub Al-Hamadi, Eicke Redweik, and Robert Niese Advanced Human Affect Visualization 2700 Isabelle Hupont, Sandra Baldassarri, Eva Cerezo, and Rafael Del-Hoyo Gestic-Based Human Machine Interface for Robot Control 2706 Michael Tornow, Ayoub Al-Hamadi, and Vinzenz Borrmann Human Control of Leader-Based Swarms 2712 Phillip Walker, Saman Amirpour Amraii, Michael Lewis, Nilanjan Chakraborty and Katia Sycara SMC: Systems Science - SYS-15 A Game-Theoretic Social Model for Multiagent Systems 2718 Wynn C. Stirling A Distributed and Automatic Negotiation Protocol for Resource Allocation in the Management of Traffic Accidents 2724 M. Prades Farron, Luis A. Garcia, Vicente R. Tomas, and M. Capdevila Applicability of Bio-inspired and Graph-Theoretic Algorithms for the Design of Complex Fault-Tolerant Graphs 2730 Matthias Becker, Florian Schmidt, and Helena Szczerbicka Analysis of Fuzzy Agents Interactions and Fuzzy Agents Roles within a Collaborative Design Platform 2735 Alain-JÈrÙme FougÈres and Egon Ostrosi Requester vs. Helper-Initiated Protocols for Mutual Assistance in Agent Teamwork 2741 Narek Nalbandyan, Jernej Polajnar, Denish Mumbaiwala, Desanka Polajnar and Omid Alemi 
xliv 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-16 Energetically Optimal Gait Transition Velocities of a Quadruped Robot 2747 Iris Shmue and Raziel Riemer Cluster Synchronization of Predator Prey Robots 2753 Sumona Mukhopadhyay and Henry Leung Matrix Transfer Protocol a Unified Communication Framework for Distributed Modules in Cognitive Robotics 2759 Gerd-J¸rgen Giefing INHA: Localization of Mobile Robots Based on Feature Matching with a Single Camera 2765 Jaehong Lee, Xuenan Cui, Seungjun Lee, Hakil Kim, and Hyoungrae Kim A Tabletop Objects Observation Method from Mobile Robot Using Kinect Sensor 2771 Takuro Egawa, Ippei Samejima, Yuma Nihei, Satoshi Kagami and Hiroshi Mizoguchi Path Planning for Mobile Robots Based on Improved Ant Colony Optimization 2777 Chen-Chien Hsu, Ru-Yu Hou, and Wei-Yen Wang Collaborative Manufacturing and Supply Chains - H15-01 A Review of Complex Systems Technologies for Supply Chain Risk Management 2783 LI Zhengping, Tan Puay Siew, Yee Qi Ming Gabriel, Nguyen Quoc Chinh Ong Yew Soon, and Chen Xianshun A Novel Two-Level Genetic Algorithm for Integrated Process Planning and Scheduling 2790 Liang Wan, Xinyu Li, Liang Gao, Xiaoyu Wen, and Wenwen Wang Application of Interval Theory and Genetic Algorithm for Uncertain Integrated Process Planning and Scheduling 2796 Wenwen Wang, Xinyu Li, Liang Gao, Xiaoyu Wen, and Liang Wan Integrated Iterated Local Search for the Permutation Flowshop Problem with Tardiness Minimization 2802 Tian Chen and Xiaoping Li Shuffled Frog Leaping Algorithm for a Bi-objective No-Idle Permutation Flow Shop 2808 Yamin Wang and Xiaoping Li MapReduce Based Method for Big Data Semantic Clustering 2814 Jie Yang and Xiaoping Li 
xlv 


Learning-Assisted Intelligent Scheduling System 2820 Ana Madureira, Jo„o Paulo Pereira, and Ivo Pereira Iterative Combinatorial Auction for Carrier Collaboration in Logistics Services 2826 Hamidreza Mehrizi and Chun Wang Computational Awareness - H04-01 Induction of High Performance Neural Networks Based on Decision Boundary Making 2831 Yuya Kaneda, Qiangfu Zhao, Yong Liu, and Neil Y. Yen Feature Point Detection in Image Morphing Based Steganography 2837 Qiangfu Zhao, Yutaro Minakawa, Yong Liu, and Neil Y. Yen Computational Awareness in a Tactile-Responsive Humanoid Robot Comedian 2843 Paul Kaefer, Kevin Germino, Dustin Venske, and Andrew B. Williams A Change Detection Method of Arguing Points by Factor Analysis for Case Method Support 2849 Masaki Samejima and Keiichi Hamada Facebook Watchdog: A Research Agenda for Detecting Online Grooming and Bullying Activities 2854 Marlies Rybnicek, Rainer Poisel, and Simon Tjoa Agent-Based Simulation for Investigating Signaling Effects in Markets with Asymmetric Information 2860 Tadahiko Murata and Du Nisuo Explore New Eye Tracking and Gaze Locating Methods 2866 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, Joe Eyles, and Honghai Liu Computational Intelligence for Ubiquitous and Pervasive Computing - C08-01 An Interval Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based System for Customised Knowledge Delivery within Pervasive E-Learning Platforms 2872 Khalid Almohammadi and Hani Hagras A Big Bang-Big Crunch Optimization for a Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based Human Behaviour Recognition System in Intelligent Environments 2880 Bo Yao, Hani Hagras, Daniyal Alghazzawi, and Mohammed J. Alhaddad A Computing with Words Framework for Ambient Intelligence 2887 Aysenur Bilgin, Hani Hagras, Areej Malibari, Daniyal Alghazzawi and J. Mohammed 
xlvi 


Social Feedback in Display Ecosystems 2893 Bernhard Anzengruber, Gabriella Castelli, Alberto Rosi, Alois Ferscha and Franco Zambonelli Improved Semantic-Based Human Interaction Understanding Using Context-Based Knowledge 2899 Kamrad Khoshhal Roudposhti and Jorge Dias A Brief Introduction to Classification for Smart Grid 2905 Chun-Wei Tsai, Alexander Pelov, Ming-Chao Chiang, Chu-Sing Yang and Tzung-Pei Hong Recognizing Human Actions by a Bag of Visual Words 2910 Pasquale Foggia, Gennaro Percannella, Alessia Saggese, and Mario Vento A Novel Two-Layer Hierarchical Differential Evolution Algorithm for Global Optimization 2916 Yinzhi Zhou, Xinyu Li, and Liang Gao Innovations in Intelligent Computation and Applications C15-01 Facial Skin Beautification Using Region-Aware Mask 2922 Lingyu Liang and Lianwen Jin Conversation System Based on Computational Intelligence for Robot Partner Using Smart Phone 2927 Jinseok Woo and Naoyuki Kubota Mining Sequential Purchasing Behaviors from Customer Transaction Databases 2933 Show-Jane Yen, Jia-Yuan Gu, and Yue-Shi Lee Student Engagement Modeling Using Bayesian Networks 2939 Choo-Yee Ting, Wei-Nam Cheah, and Chiung Ching Ho Uniform Cellular Automata Linear Rules for Edge Detection 2945 Selman Uguz, Ugur Sahin, and Ferat Sahin Intelligent Network Computing and Applications - C07-01 Dealing with Unfair Ratings 2951 Xinfeng Ye Network Information Flow Control: Proof of Concept 2957 Alwaleed Alghothami and Florian Kammuller Homogeneity Based Blind Noisy Image Quality Assessment 2963 Xiaotong Huang, Li Chen, Jing Tian, Xiaolong Zhang, and Xiaowei Fu 
xlvii 


Performance Evaluation of Self-Configured Two-Tier Heterogeneous Cellular Networks 2968 Nien-Tsu Chou, Shih-Hao Lin, Shin-Ming Cheng, and Shih-Hao Chang Metasynthesis and Complex Systems - S09-02 A Computational Study for Feature Selection on Customer Credit Evaluation 2973 Jun Huang, Haibo Wang, Wei Wang, and Zhibin Xiong Distribution of Node Characteristics in Transfractal Network Systems and Additive Scale Invariance 2979 Ying Tan, Hong Luo, and Shou-Li Peng The Decision of Price Risk of Portfolio in Inventory Financing 2985 Juan He, Jian Wang, and Xianglin Jiang A Consensus Model for Multiple Attribute Group Decision Making Problems Based on Interval Fuzzy Number 2991 Zhiying LV, Tianmin Huang, Liwei Zheng, and Ying Liang SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-17 Topology Preserving Feature Extraction with Multiswarm Optimization 2997 Thomas A. Runkler and James C. Bezdek Sparse Logistic Discriminant Analysis 3003 Takio Kurita, Kenji Watanabe, and Akinori Hidaka Discriminant Multi-component Face Analysis 3009 Hongli Liu, Weifeng Liu, Liping Dong, and Yanjiang Wang A Hidden Markov Model with Abnormal States for Detecting Stock Price Manipulation 3014 Yi Cao, Yuhua Li, Sonya Coleman, Ammar Belatreche, and T.M. McGinnity Novelty Detection Using Level Set Methods with Adaptive Boundaries 3020 Xuemei Ding, Yuhua Li, Ammar Belatreche, and Liam P. Maguire Automatic Crack Detection and Segmentation Using a Hybrid Algorithm for Road Distress Analysis 3026 Jinshan Tang and Yanliang Gu A Robust Two Signature Descriptor with Orientation Bins and Colour Codes for Enhanced Feature Matching 3031 Saad Ali Imran and Nabil Aouf Structured Sparse Representation Visual Tracking Using Bayes Classifier 3036 Weiguang Li, Yueen Hou, Aiqiong Rong, Sibo Quan, Huidong Lou and Aihua Huang 
xlviii 


SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-18 Some Consequences of the Linear Approximation of the Stochastic Context-Free Calculus 3042 Marco Carpentier On Identifying Authors with Style 3048 Lauren M. Stuart, Saltanat Tazhibayeva, Amy R. Wagoner, and Julia M. Taylor Pairwise Learning to Rank for Search Query Correction 3054 Antonin Novak and Jan Sedivy A Hash Table Approach for Large Scale Perceptual Anchoring 3060 Andreas Persson and Amy Loutfi Clause Anaphora Resolution for Japanese Demonstrative Determiner Based on Semantic Similarity between Different Part-of-Speech 3067 Yukino Ikegami, Ernesto Damiani, Akihiro Urano, and Setsuo Tsuruta Path Model Integration Method for Structural Equation Modeling by OR and Probability Concepts 3073 Rikuto Kunimoto and Ryosuke Saga Recognising User Identity in Twitter Social Networks via Text Mining 3079 Sara Keretna, Ahmad Hossny, and Doug Creighton SMC: Human-Machine - HM-09 Operability Improvement for Myoelectric Prosthetic Hand Using Brain Machine Interface Identification of Eight Forearm Motions Based on Myoelectric Potential 3083 Kana Kuniyasu and Jun Ishikawa Towards the Classification of Single-Trial Event-Related Potentials Using Adapted Wavelets and Particle Swarm Optimization 3089 Alejandro Gonzalez, Isao Nambu, Haruhide Hokari, Masahiro Iwahashi and Yasuhiro Wada Development of a System for Analyzing Common Laceration Generation Mechanisms 3095 Hideyuki Myouse, Tachio Takano, Koji Kitamura, Yoshinori Koizumi Yoshifumi Nishida, and Hiroshi Mizoguchi A Hand Grasped Object Segmentation Method Using Kinect Sensor and Body Dimension Database 3102 Naruyuki Hisatsuka, Ippei Samejima, Satoshi Kagami, Makiko Kouchi and Hiroshi Takemura 
xlvix 


On Modeling Human Learning in Sequential Games with Delayed Reinforcements 3108 Roi Ceren, Prashant Doshi, Matthew Meisel, Adam Goodie, and Dan Hall Analysis of Human Attention toward Context-related Images for Understanding Visual Information Processing 3114 Joo Yun Han, Yu-Bu Lee, and Sukhan Lee Ship Detection and Segmentation Using Image Correlation 3119 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, and Honghai Liu Hand Movement Trajectory Reconstruction from EEG for Brain-Computer Interface Systems 3127 Neethu Robinson, A.P. Vinod, and Cuntai Guan SMC: Systems Science - SYS-17 Model Selection with BIC and ICL Criteria for Binned Data Clustering by Bin-EM-CEM Algorithms 3133 Hani Hamdan and Jingwen Wu Vehicle Detection from UAVs by Using SIFT with Implicit Shape Model 3139 Xiyan Chen and Qinggang Meng Short-Term Anxiety Recognition Induced by Virtual Reality Exposure for Phobic People 3145 Wahida Handouzi, Choubeila Maaoui, Alain Pruski, Abdelhak Moussaoui and Yamina Bendiouis Dataset Shift Detection in Non-stationary Environments Using EWMA Charts 3151 Haider Raza, Girijesh Prasad, and Yuhua Li Intensity Rank Estimation of Facial Expressions Based on a Single Image 3157 Kuang-Yu Chang, Chu-Song Chen, and Yi-Ping Hung Integration of Online Laboratories - LMS via SCORM 3163 Ildefonso Ruano-Ruano, Juan GÛmez-Ortega, Javier G·mez-GarcÌa and Elisabet Estevez-EstÈvez Motor Inverter Fault Diagnosis Using Wavelets Neural Networks 3168 Sheng Qiang and Yingying Li Online Optimal DLQR-DFIG Control System Design via Recursive Least-Square Approach and State Heuristic Dynamic Programming for Approximate Solution of the HJB Equation 3174 Jo„o Viana da Fonseca Neto, Ernesto F.M. Ferreira, and Patricia H. Moraes Rego 
l 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-18 Unsupervised Adaptive Non-intrusive Load Monitoring System 3180 Po-An Chou and Ray-I Chang Learning Customer Behaviour under Real-Time Pricing in the Smart Grid 3186 Fan-Lin Meng, Xiao-Jun Zeng, and Qian Ma Bayesian Model Averaging of Load Demand Forecasts from Neural Network Models 3192 Saima Hassan, Abbas Khosravi, and Jafreezal Jaafar A Energy-Preserving Model for Wireless Sensors Networks Based on Heuristic Self-Organized Routing 3198 Aurelio La Corte, Alessandro Di Stefano, Marialisa Scat·, and Marco Leotta Design and Application of Smart Metering System for Micro Grid 3203 Ringo P.K. Lee, Loi Lei Lai, and Chun Sing Lai Discrete Time Modeling and Control of DC/DC Switching Converter for Solar Energy Systems 3208 S. Kazemlou and S. Mehraeen Variance-Covariance Based Weighing for Neural Network Ensembles 3214 Saima Hassan, Abbas Khosravi, and Jafreezal Jaafar Novel Dynamic Control of Power Systems with Penetration of Renewable Energy Sources in Multi-generator Framework 3220 S. Kazemlou and S. Mehraeen Intelligent Learning in Control Systems - S02-02 A Type-2 Fuzzy Cascade Control Architecture for Mobile Robots 3226 Tufan Kumbasar and Hani Hagras Adaptive Control System Based on Self-Organizing Wavelet Neural Network with H8 Tracking Performance Compensator 3232 Masanao Obayashi, Takuya Kamikariya, Shogo Uchiyama, Shogo Watada Takashi Kuremoto, Shingo Mabu, and Kunikazu Kobayashi Estimators Based on Non-squares Loss Functions to Approximate HJB-Riccati Equation Solution for DLQR Design via HDP 3238 Jonathan A. Queiroz, PatrÌcia H.M. Rego, Jo„o V.F. Neto, Cristiane da Silva Ewaldo Santana, and Allan Kardec Barros 
li 


Issues in EHR Representation, Integration, and Analysis S18-01 An Ontology for Clinical Trial Data Integration 3244 Ratnesh Sahay, Dimitrios Ntalaperas, Eleni Kamateri, Panagiotis Hasapis Oya Deniz Beyan, Marie-Pierre F. Strippoli, Christiana A. Demetriou Thomai Gklarou-Stavropoulou, Matthias Brochhausen Konstantinos Tarabanis, Thanassis Bouras, David Tian, Aristos Aristodimoux Athos Antoniadesx, Christos Georgousopoulos, Manfred Hauswirth and Stefan Decker Advancing Patient Record Safety and EHR Semantic Interoperability 3251 Konstantinos Perakis, Thanasis Bouras, Dimitris Ntalaperas Panagiotis Hasapis, Christos Georgousopoulos, Ratnesh Sahay Oya Deniz Beyan, Cristi Potlog, and Daniela Usurelu A Bayesian Association Rule Mining Algorithm 3258 David Tian, Ann Gledson, Athos Antoniades, Aristo Aristodimou Ntalaperas Dimitrios, Ratnesh Sahay, Jianxin Pan, Stavros Stivaros Goran Nenadic, Xiao-jun Zeng, and John Keane Understanding Low Back Pain Using Fuzzy Association Rule Mining 3265 Maybin K. Muyeba, Sandra Lewis, Liangxiu Han, and John A. Keane Perception: Part B - Perceptual Factors in Graphics - H08-01 Perceptual Quality Metrics for 3D Meshes: Towards an Optimal Multi-attribute Computational Model 3271 Guillaume LavouÈ, Irene Cheng, and Anup Basu Evaluation of 3D Model Segmentation Techniques Based on Animal Anatomy 3277 Nasim Hajari, Irene Cheng, Anup Basu, and Guillaume Lavou Keynote D Cybernetic Intelligent Systems - S19-01 Gender Classification Using One Half Face and Feature Selection Based on Mutual Information 3282 Juan E. Tapia and Claudio A. Perez User Modelling for Interactive Optimization Using Neural Network 3288 Vidya Bhushan Singh, Snehasis Mukhopadhyay, and Meghna Babbar-Sebens Software Programmed by Artificial Agents toward an Autonomous Development Process for Code Generation 3294 Carlos C. Insaurralde 
lii 


Pattern Detection Using a New Haralick Quaternion Color Extraction Model and Support Vector Machine Classifier 3300 Claudio A. Perez, Carlos F. Navarro, Daniel A. Schulz, Jacob A. Saravia and Carlos M. Aravena An Approach to the Synthesis of Humanoid Robot Dance Using Non-interactive Evolutionary Techniques 3305 Malachy Eaton Visual Servoing of a Quadrotor UAV for the Tracking of Linear Structured Infrastructures 3310 O. Araar and N. Aouf Acoustic Detection and Localization Enhanced by Video Analysis 3316 Riad Azzam and Nabil Aouf Human-Centered Transportation Systems - H05-01 Study of Induction and Estimation Method for Driver's Intention by Using a Driving Simulator 3322 Takashi Imamura, Tomonari Ogi, Zhong Zhang, and Tetsuo Miyake A Personalised Online Travel Time Prediction Model 3327 Zhenchen Wang and Stefan Poslad Availability of a Ship Propulsion System under Aging Effects 3333 Nobuo Mitomom, Tadatsugi Okazaki, and Tunc Aldemir Questionnaire Survey for Adapting Common Performance Conditions to Marine Accidents 3339 Kenji Yoshimura, Chihiro Nishizaki, Han Chuanfeng, Han Chuanfeng and Han Chuanfeng Research on the Implementation of Port State Control Based on Broad Sense Concept in the Integrated Management of Foreign Vessel 3344 Junjie Fu and Chi Zhou A Study on Evaluation of Safe Driving Using an In-Vehicle Data Camera 3348 Ryo Ishizaki and Masakazu Morimoto Human-Machine Interface and Haptics - H02-01 Myoelectric Controlled Prosthetic Hand with Continuous Force-Feedback Mechanism 3354 Nanao Akimichi, Kiyoshi Eguchi, and Kenji Suzuki Classifier Transferability in the Detection of Error Related Potentials from Observation to Interaction 3360 Su Kyoung Kim and Elsa Andrea Kirchner 
liii 


Suitability of Two Models of Torque Feedback for Performing a Robot-Assisted Circular Tracing Task 3366 Fernando Trejo and Yaoping Hu Experimental Studies of a Novel 6-DOF Haptic Device 3372 Zhouming Tang and Shahram Payandeh Design and Evaluation of Partial Weight-Bearing Sensor and Haptic Feedback System for Lower-Extremity Orthopedic Patients 3378 Levi DeLuke, Ying \(Jean Richard E. Fan, and John B. Morrell Producing Method of Softness Sensation by Device Vibration 3384 Atsutoshi Ikeda, Takahiro Suzuki, Jun Takamatsu, and Tsukasa Ogasawara Personalising Live Sports Video Zooming 3390 Zhenchen Wang and Stefan Poslad Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-01 Ambulatory Brain-Computer Interface in Outdoor Environment toward Indexing of Lifelog 3396 Hideaki Touyama and Kazuya Maeda On Determination of Ophthalmic Examinations Using Support Vector Machines 3402 Naotake Kamiura, Naoto Yamada, Ayumu Saitoh, Teijiro Isokawa Nobuyuki Matsui, and Hitoshi Tabuchi Evaluation of Autonomy Walk by Dynamic Foot Pressure Analysis 3408 Takahiro Takeda, Yoshitada Sakai, and Yutaka Hata Adaptive Human-Robot Interaction Based on Lag-Lead Modelling for Home-Based Stroke Rehabilitation: Novel Mechanisms for Assessment and Performance Based Adaptation of Task Difficulty 3414 Angelo Basteris and Farshid Amirabdollahian Ultrasonic Frequency Response Analysis for Quantitative Measurements in Bone Marrow Stromal Cells 3420 Naomi Yagi, Kei Kuramoto, Syoji Kobashi, Yutaka Hata, and Tomomoto Ishikawa Mining Clinical Pathway Candidates from Order History Based on the Clustering of Order Sequences 3425 Shoji Hirano and Shusaku Tsumoto 
liv 


Proactive Health Care Systems, Methodologies and Applications - H06-01 Applying Gaming Principles to Virtual Environments for Upper Extremity Therapy Games 3430 Mason E. Nixon and Ayanna M. Howard Development of an Autonomous Facial-Expression Monitoring System for Safe Work Environments 3436 Masakazu Arima, Shotaro Kii, and Kousuke Murata Using Type-2 Fuzzy Models to Detect Fall Incidents and Abnormal Gaits among Elderly 3441 Yo-Ping Huang, Wei-Heng Liu, Szu-Ying Chen, and Frode Eika Sandnes A Computer Supported Memory Aid for Copying Prescription Parameters into Medical Equipment Based on Linguistic Phrases 3447 Frode Eika Sandnes and Yo-Ping Huang Depression Diagnosis Based on Ontologies and Bayesian Networks 3452 Yue-Shan Chang, Wan-Chun Hung, and Tong-Ying Juang Towards ROS Based Multi-robot Architecture for Ambient Assisted Living 3458 Ruijiao Li, Mohammadreza A. Oskoei, and Huosheng Hu SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-19 SCGaz - A Synthetic Formal Context Generator with Density Control for Test and Evaluation of FCA Algorithms 3464 Andrei Rimsa, Mark A.J. Song, and Luis E. Z·rate An Intelligent Tutoring System for Case-Based E-Learning on Project Management 3471 Minami Otsuki and Masaki Samejima A Time-Series-Based Technology Intelligence Framework by Trend Prediction Functionality 3477 Hongshu Chen, Guangquan Zhang, and Jie Lu A Fuzzy Tree Similarity Measure and Its Application in Telecom Product Recommendation 3483 Dianshuang Wu, Guangquan Zhang, and Jie Lu Fuzzy Decision Support System for the Determination of the Set Points of Relevant Variables in the Virgin Olive Oil Elaboration Process 3489 P. Cano Marchal, D. MartÌnez Gila, J. G·mez Garcia, and J. GÛmez Ortega A Hierarchical Human Activity Recognition Framework Based on Automated Reasoning 3495 Shuwei Chen, Jun Liu, Hui Wang, and Juan Carlos Augusto 
lv 


Entity Conceptualization and Understanding Based on Web-Scale Knowledge Bases 3500 Yi Zeng, Hongwei Hao, and Bo Xu SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-20 Sequential Extraction by Using Two Types of Crisp Possibilistic Clustering 3505 Yukihiro Hamasuna and Yasunori Endo Comparative Evaluation of Batch and Online Distance Metric Learning Approaches Based on Margin Maximization 3511 Adri·n PÈrez-Suay, Francesc J. Ferri, Miguel Arevalillo-Herr·ez and Jes˙s V. Albert Gamification of the Optimization Problem and Multi-point Type Optimization Methods 3516 Takashi Okamoto and Eitaro Aiyoshi Quantum Annealing Algorithm for Vehicle Scheduling 3523 Alan Crispin and Alex Syrichas Chaotic Optimization Method without Initial Sampling Parameter Tuning Empirical Comparisons of Two Approaches in Various Problems 3529 Takashi Okamoto and Hironori Hirata Multi-objective Integrated Optimization Using Optimization, Modeling and Simulation 3537 Hirotaka Katayama, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda Combinatorial Optimization Method Based on Hierarchical Structure in Solution Space 3543 Hiroki Ochiai, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda SMC: Human-Machine - HM-10 Sensory Perception through an Electro-tactile Stimulus Array on the Tongue 3549 A. Jeffs and K. Warwick Extension Force Control Considering Contact with an Object Using a Wearable Robot for an Upper Limb 3555 Keishi Yonezawa, Naoto Mizutani, Norihiko Kato, Keníichi Yano, Takaakl Aoki Yasuyukl Kobayashi, and Yutaka Nishimoto Effect of Visual Cues on Line Drawing Performance 3561 Tetsuyou Watanabe Light-Emitting Device for Supporting Auditory Awareness of Hearing-Impaired People during Group Conversations 3567 Yoshihiro Kaneko, Inho Chung, and Kenji Suzuki 
lvi 


Fallen Person Detection for Mobile Robots Using 3D Depth Data 3573 Michael Volkhardt, Friederike Schneemann, and Horst-Michael Gross Muscle Synergy Analysis of Human Standing-Up Motion with Different Chair Heights and Different Motion Speeds 3579 Qi An, Yuki Ishikawa, Junki Nakagawa, Hiroyuki Oka, Hiroshi Yamakawa Atsushi Yamashita, and Hajime Asama Semantic Indoor Navigation with a Blind-User Oriented Augmented Reality 3585 Samleo L. Joseph, Xiaochen Zhang, Ivan Dryanovski, Jizhong Xiao, Chucai Yi and YingLi Tian SMC: Systems Science - SYS-19 Robust Discriminator between Bicycle Rider and Pusher Based on CHLAC of Leg Movement from Video Sequence 3592 Yuki Ishii, Hiroshi Hisahara, Masahito Ota, Takeki Ogitsu, Hiroshi Takemura and Hiroshi Mizoguchi A Train Load Planning Optimization Model for Intermodal Freight Transport Terminals: A Case Study 3597 Mariagrazia Dotolia, Nicola Epicocoa, Marco Falagariob, Domenico Palmaa and Biagio Turchianoa Parking Space Detection Using Textural Descriptors 3603 Paulo Almeida, Luiz S. Oliveira, Eunelson Silva Jr., Alceu Britto Jr and Alessandro Koerich Dynamic Management of Parking Spaces in Road Rest Areas with Automatic Negotiation 3609 M. Capdevila, Vicente R. Tomas, Luis A. Garca, and M. Prades Farron Tracking Multiple Moving Vehicles in Low Frame Rate Videos Based on Trajectory Information 3615 Giyoung Lee, Rammohan Mallipeddi, and Minho Lee Intelligent Traffic Light Control of Isolated Intersections Using Machine Learning Methods 3621 Sahar Araghi, Abbas Khosravi, Michael Johnstone, and Doug Creighton Visibility Enhancement of Single Hazy Images Using Hybrid Dark Channel Prior 3627 Yi-Jui Cheng, Bo-Hao Chen, Shih-Chia Huang, Sy-Yen Kuo, Andrey Kopylov Oleg Seredint, Leonid Mestetskiy, Boris Vishnyakov, Yury Vizilter Oleg Vygolov, Chia-Ruei Lian, and Chi-Ting Wu 
lvii 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-20 Component-Based Modelling for Generating Robotic Arm Applications Running under OROCOS Middleware 3633 A. Sanchez Garcia, E. Estevez, J. Gomez Ortega, and J. Gamez Garcia Predictive Modeling of Time-Varying Environmental Information for Path Planning 3639 Woojin Kim, Hyeonbeom Lee, and H. Jin Kim Kelpie: A ROS-Based Multi-robot Simulator for Water Surface and Aerial Vehicles 3645 Ricardo MendonÁa, Pedro Santana, Francisco Marques, AndrÈ LourenÁo Jo„o Silva, and JosÈ Barata Improved Monte Carlo Localization with Robust Orientation Estimation for Mobile Robots 3651 Chen-Chien Hsu, Chia-Jui Kuo, and Wen-Chung Kao Visual Predictive Control of Robot Manipulators Using a 3D ToF Camera 3657 S. Satorres MartÌnez, J. GÛmez Ortega, J. G·mez GarcÌa, A. S·nchez GarcÌa and J. de la Casa C·rdenas Reducing the Computational Cost of a Monte Carlo Based Planning Algorithm 3663 Hao Wang and Simon J. Julier A Semantic-Similarity-Based Method for Object Description and Clustering 3669 Jing Xu, Shogo Okada, and Katsumi Nitta Driver-Vehicle Systems, Modeling, Dynamics, and Control H01-01 A Subjective Force Perception Model of Humans and Its Application to a Steering Operation System of a Vehicle 3675 Kazuhiro Takemura, Naoki Yamada, Atsuhide Kishi, Kazuo Nishikawa Takahide Nouzawa, Chang Li, Yuichi Kurita, and Toshio Tsuji Driver Behaviour Analysis through Simulation 3681 Andreas Gregoriades, Christos Florides, Vicky Papadopoulou Lesta and Maria Pampaka Biomechanical and Psychophysical Evaluation of Operating Loads in Vehicular Driving 3687 Yoshiyuki Tanaka, Mitsuhiro Narusue, Hiroaki Matsubara, Toshio Tsuji Tomonori Ohtsubo, Hiroshi Okiyama, Matsuhiro Tanaka, and Shunichiro Miyawaki Driver Distraction Assessment Using Driver Modeling 3693 Peter Hermannst‰dter and Bin Yang 
lviii 


Experiment Design for Measuring Driver Reaction Time in Driving Situation 3699 Zhong Zhang, Yuki Asakawa, Takashi Imamura, and Tetsuo Miyake Modeling Driver Steering Control Based on Stochastic Model Predictive Control 3704 Ting Qu, Hong Chen, Yan Ji, Hongyan Guo, and Dongpu Cao Quantitative Driving Style Estimation for Energy-Oriented Applications in Road Vehicles 3710 Andrea Corti, Carlo Ongini, Mara Tanelli, and Sergio M. Savaresi Human-Machine Interface and Haptics - H02-02 Cepstrum Based Unsupervised Spike Classification 3716 Sherif Haggag, Shady Mohamed, Asim Bhatti, Nong Gu, Hailing Zhou and Saeid Nahavandi Fast Volumetric Reconstruction of Human Body through Superquadrics 3721 I. Infantino, F. Vella, G. Martino, and S. Gaglio A User Study with GUIs Tailored for Smartphones and Tablet PCs 3727 David Raneburger, Roman Popp, David Alonso-RÌos, Hermann Kaind and J¸rgen Falb Estimation Method of Clothes Size for Virtual Fitting Room with Kinect Sensor 3733 Reizo Nakamura, Masaki Izutsu, and Shosiro Hatakeyama Assessing Goal-Directed Three-Dimensional Movements in a Virtual Reality Block Design Task 3739 Wooram Jeon, Michael Clamann, David B. Kaber, and Nancy J. Currie Use of Foot for Direct Interactions with Entities of a Virtual Environment Displayed on a Mobile Device 3745 Bob-Antoine J. Menelas and Martin J-D. Otis An Investigation into Thumb Rotation Using High Density Surface Electromyography of Extrinsic Hand Muscles 3751 A. Aranceta-Garza, H. Lakany, and B.A. Conway Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-02 Evaluation of Arterial Stiffness during the Flow-Mediated Dilation Test 3756 Harutoyo Hirano, Daisuke Kiharat, Hiroki Hirano, Yuichi Kurita, Teiji Ukawa Tsuneo Takayanagi, Haruka Morimoto, Ryuji Nakamura, Noboru Saeki Yukihito Higashi, Masashi Kawamoto, Masao Yoshizumi, and Toshio Tsuji An Ultrasonic Imaging for Seminiferous Tubules Beyond the Wavelength Limit 3760 Koki Tsukuda, Tomomoto Ishikawa, and Yutaka Hata 
lvix 


Mobile Patient Monitoring for the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit Work Domain Analysis and Rapid Prototyping Results 3765 Matthias Geˆrges, Catherine M. Burns, Plinio P. Morita, and J. Mark Ansermino Fabrication of Reflectance Pulse Oximeter with Ring-Shaped Photodiode 3771 Masahide Kano, Yota Sato, Kensuke Kanda, Takayuki Fujita Kazusuke Maenaka, Kazuo Kasai, and Kohei Higuchi Toward Personalized Cognitive Training for Elderly with Mild Cognitive Impairment: Cerebral Blood Flow Activation during Verbally-Based Cognitive Activities 3775 Shohei Kato, Hidetoshi Endo, Risako Nagata, Takuto Sakuma and Keita Watanabe Ultra Low Power ASIC for R-R Interval Extraction on Wearable Health Monitoring System 3780 Takayuki Fujita, Tomoya Tanaka, Koji Sonoda, Kensuke Kanda and Kazusuke Maenaka Unsupervised Classification of Cross-Section Area of Spinal Canal 3784 Chao-Cheng Wu, Guan-Sheng Huang, Yi-Ling Chen, Yung-Hsiao Chiang and Jiannher Lin Proactive Health Care Systems, Methodologies and Applications - H06-02 Ejecting Outliers to Enhance Robustness of Fuzzy Cluster Ensemble 3790 Li-Jen Kao and Yo-Ping Huang Mobile Care Robot Localization and Guidance Using Image Structure Map 3796 Chuan-Pin Lu, Ta-Hua Yeh, and Wei Huang Modeling and Performance Analysis of Route-Over and Mesh-Under Routing Schemes in 6LoWPAN 3802 Tsung-Han Lee, Hung-Shiou Chiang, Lin-Huang Chang, Ming-Chun Hsieh Chih-Hao Wen, and Kian Meng Yap An Acceleration Feature-Based Gesture Recognition System 3807 Hung-Chi Chu, Sheng-Chih Huang, and Jiun-Jiam Liaw Energy-Efficient Oriented Routing Algorithm in Wireless Sensor Networks 3813 Lin-Huang Chang, Tsung-Han Lee, Shu-Jan Chen, and Cheng-Yen Liao A Body-Sensed Motor Assessment System for Stroke Upper-Limb Rehabilitation: A Preliminary Study 3819 Chao-Hsien Lee, Yu-Hsien Chiu, Hao-Yun Kao, I-Te Chen, I-Nong Lee Wen-Hsien Ho, Liang-Yu Chen, Pin-Han Huang, Sin-Hao Chen, Chih-Yun Liu and Hsiao-Yan Lu 
lx 


Recognition of the Ambulance Siren Sound in Taiwan by the Longest Common Subsequence 3825 Jiun-Jian Liaw, Wen-Shen Wang, Hung-Chi Chu, Meng-Sian Huang and Chuan-Pin Lu Self-Organization and Emergence in Distributed Manufacturing Systems - S08-01 Self-Organized Holonic Multi-agent Manufacturing System: The Behavioural Perspective 3829 JosÈ Barbosa, Paulo Leit„o, Emmanuel Adam, and Damien Trentesaux Bio-inspired Self-Organising Methodologies for Production Emergence 3835 Jo„o Dias Ferreira, Luis Ribeiro, Mauro Onori, and JosÈ Barata Multiagent Mechatronic Systems with Simulation on the Loop 3842 Luis Ribeiro, JosÈ Barata, Dean Whittingslow, and Roland Krain Control System Software Design Methodology for Automotive Industry 3848 Giovanni Di Orio, JosÈ Barata, Carlos Sousa, and Luis Flores Prospection of Methods to Support Design and Configuration of Self-Organizing Mechatronic Systems 3854 P. Neves, J. Ferreira, M. Onori, L. Ribeiro, and J. Barata An Axiomatic Design Approach to Production Path Enumeration in Reconfigurable Manufacturing Systems 3862 Amro M. Farid SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-21 Human Movement Analysis: Extension of the F-Statistic to Time Series Using HMM 3870 Michelle Karg, Wolfgang Seiber, Jesse Hoey, and Dana Kulic A Framework for Automatic Text Generation of Trends in Physiological Time Series Data 3876 Hadi Banaee, Mobyen Uddin Ahmed, and Amy Loutfi A Preliminary Study of Interaction Effects on Brain Activity during Cooperative Work Using fNIRS 3882 Tomoyuki Hiroyasu, Mao Goto, Utako Yamamoto, and Hisatake Yokouchi Effect of Texture Features in Computer Aided Diagnosis of Pulmonary Nodules in Low-Dose Computed Tomography 3887 Henry Krewer, Benjamin Geiger, Lawrence O. Hall, Dmitry B. Goldgof Yuhua Gu, Melvyn Tockman, and Robert J. Gillies The Cybernetics of Human Cognition and Adult Language Learning 3892 Mir Azmath Ali and Narayana G.P.L. Mandaleeka 
lxi 


Automatic Design of a Novel Image Filter Based on the GA-EM Algorithm for Vein Shapes 3897 Koji Kashihara Spatial Cognition Degree of Development Classification Using Largest Lyapunov Exponents 3903 Guilherme Maron, Dante A.C. Barone, and Elias A. Ramos SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-22 A Stability Analysis Based Parameter Setting Method for Spiral Optimization 3909 Kenichi Tamura and Keiichiro Yasuda Adaptive Parameter Adjustment of Differential Evolution 3915 Ruren Ji, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda An Improvement in Classification Accuracy of Fuzzy Oriented Classifier Evolution 3921 Junji Otsuka and Tomoharu Nagao A New Partitioning Method for the IDS Method 3927 Yoshito Ozaki and Akira Utsumi Shadowed C-Means for Image Segmentation Using Local and Non-local Spatial Information 3933 Jing Zou, Long Chen, and C. L. Philip Chen Type-2 SIC Fuzzy Inference Models 3939 Hirosato Seki SMC: Human-Machine - HM-11 Game Poetry: Promotion of Poetry through a Game-Based Learning System 3944 Hsin-Yi Liang and Sherry Y. Chen Image-Based Rendering for Ink Painting 3950 Lingyu Liang and Lianwen Jin Personalization of Interactive Digital Media in Ubiquitous Educational Environments 3955 Rafael D. Ara˙jo, Taffarel Brant-Ribeiro, Renan G. Cattelan, Sandra A. de Amo and Hiran N.M. Ferreira Vibration-Induced Friction Control for Walkway Locomotion Interface 3961 Guillaume Millet, Martin J.-D. Otis, and Jeremy R. Cooperstock Qualitative Risk of Falling Assessment Based on Gait Abnormalities 3966 David Gagnon, Bob-Antoine J. Menelas, and Martin J.-D. Otis Role Analysis of Dominant and Non-dominant Hand in Daily Life 3972 Hiroshi Kousaka, Hiroshi Mizoguchi, Masahiro Yoshikawa, Hideyuki Tanaka and Yoshio Matsumoto 
lxii 


Classification of Trunk Motion for a Backbone Exoskeleton Using Inertial Data and Surface Electromyography 3978 Abhijit Kadrolkar and Frank Sup SMC: Systems Science - SYS-21 The Effect of Clustering-Based and Degree-Based Weighting on Robustness in Symmetrically Coupled Heterogeneous Interdependent Networks 3984 Yuzhuo Qiu Mixed Poisson Deterioration Model for Bridge Management 3989 Kengo Obama, Kiyoyuki Kaito, and Kiyoshi Kobayashi A System Architecture to Support Cost-Effective Transcription and Translation of Large Video Lecture Repositories 3994 Joan Albert Silvestre-Cerd‡, Alejandro PÈrez, Manuel JimÈnez, Carlos Turr Alfons Juan, and Jorge Civera Estimation of the Reflectance Distribution of Fallen Objects on Highways for Tunnel Lighting Management 4000 So Sakaguchi, Satoshi Hirakawa, Daijiro Mizutani, Kengo Obama and Kiyoyuki Kaito Background Subtraction Using Gaussian Mixture Model Enhanced by Hole Filling Algorithm \(GMMHF 4006 Adi Nurhadiyatna, Wisnu Jatmiko, Benny Hardjono, Ari Wibisono, Ibnu Sina and Petrus Mursanto Using Neuro-fuzzy Models to Benchmark Road Safety Management Systems 4012 Maris Sekar, Mohammad Moshirpour, Julian Serfontein, and Behrouz H. Far Image Based Automatic Road Surface Crack Detection for Achieving Smooth Driving on Deformed Roads 4018 Chinthaka Premachandra, H. Waruna, H. Premachandra and Chandana Dinesh Parape SMC: Systems Science - SYS-22 Coordinating the Collective Behavior of Swarm Robotics Systems Based on Incremental Evolution 4024 Kazuhiro Ohkura, Toshiyuki Yasuda, and Yoshiyuki Matsumura Mathematical Morphology Applied in Object Tracking on Position-Based Visual Servoing 4030 Diego Saqui, Fernando C. Sato, Edilson R.R. Kato, Emerson C. Pedrino and Roberto H. Tsunaki 
lxiii 


GRASPER: A Multisensory Based Manipulation System for Underwater Operations 4036 P.J. Sanz, A. PeÒalver, J. Sales, D. Fornas, J.J. Fern·ndez, J. PÈrez and J. Bernab Autonomous Robot Hitting Task Using Dynamical System Approach 4042 Farid Oubbati, Mathis Richter, and Gregor Schˆner Cross-Spectral Stereo Matching Based on Local Self-Similarities and Image Moments 4048 Tarek Mouats and Nabil Aouf The Representation of Weighted Action-Coupled Semantic Network and Spreading Activation Model for Improvisational Action 4054 Gi Hyun Lim, Il Hong Suh, and LuÌs Seabra Lopes Visual Search of an Object in Cluttered Environments for Robotic Errand Service 4060 Xi Chen and Sukhan Lee Simulation of Hardware Variations in Swarm Robots 4066 Beining Shang, Richard Crowder, and Klaus-Peter Zauner Cloud Computing - C14-01 A Game Theoretic Approach to Service Discovery and Selection 4072 Yi Chen, Bakh Khoussainov, and Xinfeng Ye EucaBomber: Experimental Evaluation of Availability in Eucalyptus Private Clouds 4080 Debora Souza, Rubens Matos, Jean Araujo, Vandi Alves, and Paulo Maciel Availability and Energy Consumption Analysis of Mobile Cloud Environments 4086 Danilo Oliveira, Jean Araujo, Rubens Matos, and Paulo Maciel Elasticity in Service Level Agreements 4092 Frank Schulz Stochastic Model Generation for Cloud Infrastructure Planning 4098 Erica Sousa, Paulo Maciel, Lais Medeiros, Fernando Lins, Eduardo Tavares and Erico Medeiros Private Cloud Cooperation Framework of E-Learning Environment for Disaster Recovery 4104 Satoshi Togawa and Kazuhide Kanenishi Comparative Analysis of Migration-Based Rejuvenation Schedules on Cloud Availability 4110 Matheus Melo, Jean Araujo, Rubens Matos, Julian Menezes, and Paulo Maciel 
lxiv 


Energy-Efficient Virtual Machine Management in Heterogeneous Environment Challenges, Approaches and Opportunities 4116 Mohammad Fozlul Haque Bhuiyan and Chun Wang Driver-Vehicle Systems, Modeling, Dynamics, and Control H01-02 Event-Based Control of Freeway Systems 4122 A. Ferrara S. Sacone and S. Siri Predictive Rollover Index Based on Frontal Road Geometry and On-Line Driver Information 4128 Liang-kuang Chen and Jian-min Huang Analysis of Brain Activity during VR-Based Driving Using Near-Infrared Spectroscopy 4134 Keiichi Watanuki, Kenta Hirayama, and Kazunori Kaede Eye Movement Detection for Assessing Driver Drowsiness by Electrooculography 4142 Parisa Ebrahim, Wolfgang Stolzmann, and Bin Yang A Real-Time Implementation of an MPC-Based Motion Cueing Strategy with Time-Varying Prediction 4149 Alessandro Beghi, Mattia Bruschetta, and Fabio Maran Defining "Critical Speed" in Driver-Vehicle Systems 4155 Craig West and Dongpu Cao Dynamic Trajectory Planning for Vehicle Autonomous Driving 4161 Sumin Zhang, Weiwen Deng, Qingrong Zhao, Hao Sun, and Bakhtiar Litkouhi Enhancing the Energy Efficiency of Fully Electric Vehicles via the Minimization of Motor Power Losses 4167 A. Pennycott, L. De Novellis, P. Gruber, A. Sorniotti, and T. Goggia Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-03 A Pattern Recognition Method for Automating Tactile Graphics Translation from Hand-Drawn Maps 4173 Jianjun Chen and Noboru Takagi Pupil Diameter Variation in Positive and Negative Emotions with Visual Stimulus 4179 Shuhei Kawai, Hironobu Takano, and Kiyomi Nakamura Haptics for Multi-fingered Palpation 4184 Min Li, Shan Luo, Lakmal D. Seneviratne, Thrish Nanayakkara Kaspar Althoefer, and Prokar Dasgupta 
lxv 


Evaluating Manual Palpation Trajectory Patterns in Tele-manipulation for Soft Tissue Examination 4190 Jelizaveta Konstantinova, Min Li, Vahid Aminzadeh, Kaspar Althoefer Thrishantha, and Prokar Dasgupta Human Tracking and Estimation under Occlusion Using Laser Range Scanner and Accelerometer 4196 Shogo Shibutani, Hiroki Tamura, and Koichi Tanno Accuracy of Voice Pitch Control in Singing Using Tactile Voice Pitch Feedback Display 4201 Masatsugu Sakajiri, Shigeki Miyoshi, Kenryu Nakamura, Satoshi Fukushima and Tohru Ifukube Fundamental Study on Tactile Cognition through Haptic Feedback Touchscreen 4207 Junji Onishi, Masatsugu Sakajiri, Takahiro Miurat, and Tsukasa Ono Motion Estimation Based on EMG and EEG Signals to Control Wearable Robots 4213 Kazuo Kiguchi and Yoshiaki Hayashi Perception: Part A - Perception and Its Applications - H07-01 New Perception of Fluffy Surfaces 4219 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, and Honghai Liu Development of Gazing Interface for Operation of a Page Turner Machine 4225 Nobuaki Nakazawa, Ilhwan Kim, Hiroki Murakawa, and Toshikazu Matsui Mitigating Biases in Time-to-Contact Judgments with Cockpit Displays of Traffic Information 4231 Carl Pankok and David B. Kaber Segmentation of Natural Scenes Based on Visual Attention and Gestalt Grouping Laws 4237 R.G. Mesquita and C.A.B. Mello Finding Text in Natural Scenes by Visual Attention 4243 R.G. Mesquita and C.A.B. Mello Tracked Object Association in Multi-camera Surveillance Network 4248 Xiaochen Dai and Shahram Payandeh Pedestrian Guidance and Sensory Fusion Using Peripheral-Vision-Stimulus and Vibratory Stimulus 4254 Norifumi Watanabe, Fumihiko Mori, and Takashi Omori 
lxvi 


SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-23 A Novel Approach for Binarization of Overlay Text 4259 Zhike Zhang and Weiqiang Wang Texture Analysis for the Segmentation of Optic Disc in Retinal Images 4265 Suraya Mohammad, D.T. Morris, and Neil Thacker A Faster Method for Chinese Font Recognition Based on Harris Corner 4271 Shuye Zhang, Lianwen Jin, Dapeng Tao, and Zhao Yang HaarHOG: Improving the HOG Descriptor for Image Classification 4276 Sugata Banerji, Atreyee Sinha, and Chengjun Liu Automatic Detection of Laughter and Fillers in Spontaneous Mobile Phone Conversations 4282 Hugues Salamin, Anna Polychroniou, and Alessandro Vinciarelli Visual Tracking Based on Compressive Sensing MCMC Sampling 4288 Lan Wang, Pingyang Dai, Yanlong Luo, Cuihua Li, and Yi Xie Modelling-Based Feature Selection for Classification of Forest Structure Using Very High Resolution Multispectral Imagery 4294 Benoit Beguet, Samia Boukir, Dominique Guyon, and Nesrine Chehata A New Method for Online Retinal Optic-Disc Detection Based on Cascade Classifiers 4300 Claudio A. Perez, Daniel A. Schulz, Carlos M. Aravena, Claudio I. Perez and T. Juan Verdaguer SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-24 Boundary Detection Based on Chromatic Color Difference and Morphological Texture Suppression 4305 D.C. Costa, C.A.B. Mello, and T.J. dos Santos Fuzzy Consistency Measure with Particle Swarm Optimization for Feature Selection 4311 Basabi Chakraborty and Goutam Chakraborty Pareto-Front Analysis and AdaBoost for Person Detection Using Heterogeneous Features 4316 A. A. Mekonnen, F. Lerasle, and A. Herbulot Pedestrian Detection under Progressive Occlusion 4322 Silvio G.O. Santos, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti, Tsang Ing Jyh and Jan Sijbers Type-2 Fuzzy GMM-UBM for Text-Independent Speaker Verification 4328 Hector N.B. Pinheiro, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti, Tsang Ing Jyh and Jan Sijbers 
lxvii 


A Combined Features Approach for Speaker Segmentation Using BIC and Artificial Neural Networks 4332 Leonardo Valeriano Neri, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti Tsang Ing Jyh, and Jan Sijbers Bird Species Classification Based on Color Features 4336 AndrÈia Marini, Jacques Facon, and Alessandro L. Koerich Regression Based Learning of Human Actions from Video Using HOF-LBP Flow Patterns 4342 Binu M. Nair and Vijayan K. Asari SMC: Human-Machine - HM-12 Finding People in Apartments with a Mobile Robot 4348 Michael Volkhardt and Horst-Michael Gross People Tracking on a Mobile Companion Robot 4354 Michael Volkhardt, Christoph Weinrich, and Horst-Michael Gross Applying Behavioral Strategies for Student Engagement Using a Robotic Educational Agent 4360 LaVonda Brown, Ryan Kerwin, and Ayanna M. Howard High Resolution Binocular Video See-Through Display for Interactive Work Support - Development of System and Evaluation of Depth Perception and Peg-in-Hole Tasks 4366 Kazuyo Iwamoto and Jun Ishikawa Assessment of the Wiimote as a Tangible User Interface for Interactive Virtual Environments 4372 Jacopo Aleotti, Stefano Caselli, and Vincenzo Micelli Improving the Localization Accuracy of Virtual Sound Source through Reinforcement Learning 4378 Manabu Washizu, Shuhei Morioka, Isao Nambu, Shohei Yano Haruhide Hokari, and Yasuhiro Wada Appearance-Based 3D Upper-Body Pose Estimation and Person Re-identification on Mobile Robots 4384 Christoph Weinrich, Michael Volkhardt, and Horst-Michael Gross Learning Behaviors from Human Teachers by Generalizing Task-Relevant Features 4391 Huan Tan and Qu Zhang 
lxviii 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-23 3D Face Recognition: Feature Extraction Based on Directional Signatures from Range Data and Disparity Maps 4397 Soodamani Ramalingam Multi Image Encryption and Steganography Based on Synchronization of Chaotic Lasers 4403 Sumona Mukhopadhyay and Henry Leung Design and Analysis of the Gateway-Level Topology Map in Topology-Aware ALM Systems 4409 Jianqun Cui, Naixue Xiong, Libing Wu, Keming Jia, and Kuan Gao Organizational Responsibility Model: Dealing with Demand for Services Higher Than Installed Capacity 4415 Guttenberg Ferreira Passos, Ilan Chamovitz, and Babis Theodoulidis A Situated Approach to Systems Based Modeling of Services 4421 Anshuman Saxena and Alain Wegmann Systems Oriented Approach to Production Support - A Viable Framework 4427 Veerendra K. Rai 3D Face Synthesis with KINECT 4433 Soodamani Ramalingam and Nguyen Trong Viet Increase Energy Efficiency of Data Center Cooling Facilities with Airflow Optimization 4439 Jochen Buchholz, Yosandra Sandoval, and Eugen Volk SMC: Systems Science - SYS-24 A Robust Anomaly Detection in Pantograph-Catenary System Based on Mean-Shift Tracking and Foreground Detection 4444 Ilhan Aydin, Mehmet Karakˆse, and Erhan Akin Distributed Algorithm for Connected Dominating Set Construction in Sensor Networks 4450 Najla Al-Nabhan, Mznah Al-Rodhaan, Abdullah Al-Dhelaan, and Xiuzhen Cheng A Smart Surface Simulation Environment 4456 David R.W. Barr, Declan Walsh, and Piotr Dudek Developing an Agent Model of a Missing Person in the Wilderness 4462 W. Mohibullah and Simon J. Julie Multi-robot Cooperation Based on Continuous Reinforcement Learning with Two State Space Representations 4470 Toshiyuki Yasuda, Kazuhiro Ohkura, and Kazuaki Yamada 
lxix 


Hierarchical Navigation Architecture and Robotic Arm Controller for a Sample Return Rover 4476 Velin Dimitrov, Mathew DeDonato, Adam Panzica, Samir Zutshi, Mitchell Wills and Taskin Padir Modular Robot Arm Design for Physical Human-Robot Interaction 4482 Ty Tremblay and Taskin Padir Kinematic Control of a Planetary Exploration Rover over Rough Terrain 4488 Thomas J. Carlone, Jon J. Anderson, Joseph L. Amato, Velin D. Dimitrov and Taskin Padir SMC: Systems Science - SYS-25 Thesaurus Performance with Information Retrieval: Schema Matching as a Case Study 4494 Thabit Sabbah and Ali Selamat A Novel Method for the Development of an Idealised Active Roll Stabilisation System Model 4499 Ingo Scharfenbaum, Alessio Fratini, and Gunther Prokop Conceptual Modeling Semantics for the Physical-Informatical Essence Duality Problem 4505 Yaniv Mordecai, Craig Chapman, and Dov Dori Research on the Application of Multi-model Predictive Control in Coordinated Control of 1,000 MW Ultra-supercritical Unit 4511 Xi Zhang, Shihe Chen, Weiwu Yan, and Guoliang Wang Control of Polystyrene Batch Reactor Using Fuzzy Logic Controller 4516 Mohammad Anwar Hosen, Abbas Khosravi, Saeid Nahavandi and Douglas Creighton Backstepping Control on SE\(3 Tracking 4522 Hyeonbeom Lee, Suseong Kim, Tyler Ryan, and H. Jin Kim An Agent-Based Simulation to Quantify and Analyze Bullwhip Effects in Supply Chains 4528 Nguyen Quoc Chinh, Li Zhengping, Tan Puay Siew, Chen Xianshun and Ong Yew Soon 
lxx 


Advances in Medical Informatics - C18-01 A Texture Feature Ranking Model for Predicting Survival Time of Brain Tumor Patients 4533 Mu Zhou, Lawrence O. Hall, Dmitry B. Goldgof, Robert A. Gatenby and Robert J. Gillies Diagnosis of Lymphatic Diseases Using a Naive Bayes Style Possibilistic Classifier 4539 Karim Baati, Tarek M. Hamdani, and Adel M. Alimi Revisiting Link-Based Cluster Ensembles for Microarray Data Classification 4543 Natthakan Iam-On and Tossapon Boongoen Automated Driving and Safety Systems - H09-01 Towards Evaluation of Post Impact Braking Function in Driving Simulator 4549 Faouzi Al Mouatamid, Artem Kusachov, Bengt Jacobson, and Derong Yang Using a Mediator to Handle Undesired Feature Interaction of Automated Driving 4555 Dominik Ertl, Sven Dominka, and Hermann Kaindl Lateral Control of Vehicle Platoons 4561 Stefan Solyom, Arash Idelchi, and Badr Bin Salamah Environmental Information Systems - S12-01 A Survey on Environmental Open Data in Austria 4566 Peter Wetz, Amin Anjomshoaa, and A. Min Tjoa An Intelligent Lighting System with a Seat Management Mechanism 4571 Mitsunori Miki, Hisanori Ikegami, Ryoga Okunishi, Kazuki Matsutani and Shohei Fujimoto Combination of Preferred Illuminance and Preferred Color Temperature for Work 4577 Mitsunori Miki, Hisanori Ikegam, Yo Motoya, and Shohei Fujimoto Maximization of the Average Color Rendering Index of Color Temperature and Illuminance Constraints 4583 Mitsunori Miki, Shohei Fujimoto, Yo Motoya, and Ryoga Okunishi Ontology-Based Integration of Heterogeneous Material Data Resources in Product Lifecycle Management 4589 Touba Rahmani, SÈbastien Bougain, and Detlef Gerhard 
lxxi 


Human-Centered Transportation Systems - H05-02 The Effect of Motion-Induced Factor on the Operator Performance during Ship's Watch 4595 Tunglam Ngodang, Koji Murai, Yuji Hayashi, Nobuo Mitomo, Kenji Yoshimura and Kenjiro Hikida Evaluation of Pilot Mental Workload for Simulator Based Training Using Heart Rate Variability 4601 Masahiro Tanaka, Koji Murai, and Yuji Hayashi Trial Study of Traffic Safety Education for High School Students Using Driving Simulator 4606 Takashi Imamura, Tomonari Ogi, Elvin Tiong Chew Lun, Zhong Zhang and Tetsuo Miyake Emotion and Gesture Recognition with Soft Computing Tool for Drivers Assistance System in Human Centered Transportation 4612 Urvashi Agrawal, Shubhangi Giripunje, and Preeti Bajaj Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-04 Use of Simulated Inertia to Improve the Performance of a BEP Human-Computer Interface 4617 Noel Segura Meraz and Yasuhisa Hasegawa Multi-human Locating in Real Environment by Thermal Sensor 4623 Masato Kuki, Hiroshi Nakajima, Naoki Tsuchiya, and Yutaka Hata On a Learning-Science System Supporting Visually Impaired Students via the Haptic Device 4629 Takashi Suzuki, Tomoyuki Araki, Katsuhiro Kawai Yasuyuki Murai and Hisayuki Tatsumi Metaheuristic Algorithms for Data Mining - C16-01 DECoDe - Differential Evolution Algorithm for Community Detection 4635 Thiago P. Leal, Amanda C.A. GonÁalves, VinÌcius da F. Vieira and Carolina R. Xavier The Effect of Features Using Feature Selection for Bayesian Classifier 4641 L. Moore and C. Kambhampati A Hybrid Approach for Mining Frequent Itemsets 4647 Bay Vo, Frans Coenen, Tuong Le, and Tzung-Pei Hong An IT2FLS-Based Malware Analysis Mechanism: Malware Analysis Network in Taiwan \(MiT 4652 Hsien-De Huang, Chang-Shing Lee Mei-Hui Wang, and Hung-Yu Kao 
lxxii 


SMC: Human-Machine - HM-13 User-Friendly Free-Text Keystroke Dynamics Authentication for Practical Applications 4658 Arwa Alsultan and Kevin Warwick A Study on Body Part Motion Caused by Improper Crutch Walk 4664 Naoaki Tsuda, Kota Tominaga, Yoshihiko Nomura, and Norihiko Kato Simulation Interface for Gesture-Based Remote Control of a Surgical Lighting Arm 4670 Jean-FranÁois Collumeau, Elyse Nespoulous, HÈlËne Laurent, and Benoit Magnain Topic and Opinion Classification Based Information Credibility Analysis on Twitter 4676 Yukino Ikegami, Kenta Kawai, Yoshimi Namihira, and Setsuo Tsuruta Human Interactions for Self-Adaptive Virtual Product Prototype 4682 L·szlÛ Horv·th and Imre J. Rudas Towards a Rule-Based Bidding Language: Promoting the Free Expression of Rational Conduct for Ecosystem Friendly E-Markets 4688 Wafa Ghonaim, Hamada Ghenniwa, and Weiming Shen SMC: Systems Science - SYS-26 A Dwi-Phase Fuzzy Control Structure for an Auto-mode Stair Climbing Wheelchair 4694 N.M.A Ghani and M.O. Tokhi SOS-Based Fuzzy Control of a Wheeled Mobile Robot with Decay Rate 4700 Gwo-Ruey Yum and Wei-Yi Wang Model-less versus Model-Based Controllers for Diabetes 4706 Ahmed Y. Ben Sasi and Mahmud A. Elmalki Guaranteed Cost Control Design Based on Takagi-Sugeno Fuzzy Systems with Nonlinear Subsystems 4712 Shunsuke Ochiai, Jun Yoneyama, and Yuzu Uchida Center of Mass Estimation for Rehabilitation in a Multi-contact Environment: A Simulation Study 4718 Alejandro Gonz·lez, Mitsuhiro Hayashibe, Emel Demircan, and Philippe Fraisse A Simple Phenomenological Modeling of McKibben Pneumatic Actuator and Its Application to Control 4724 Fumitake Fujii, Hiroyoshi Murata, Yuta Hirose, and Takuya Okada State Space Realization of Wood Drying Process: Modeling, Simulation and Evaluation in Reality 4731 Saleh S. Delshad and Thomas Gustafsson 
lxxiii 


Energy Saving and System Performance - An Art of Trade-Off for Controller Design 4737 Kang Li, Yongling Wu, Shaoyuan Li, and Yugeng Xi SMC: Systems Science - Flexible Production Management SYS-27 Multi-agent System Approach for the Strategic Planning in Ramp-Up Production of Small Lots 4743 Paulo Leit„o, JosÈ Barbosa, Pavel Vrba, Petr Skobelev, Alexander Tsarev and Daria Kazanskaia A Conceptual Architecture Based on Intelligent Services for Manufacturing Support Systems 4749 CÈsar A. MarÌn, Lars Mˆnch, Paulo Leit„o, Pavel Vrba, Daria Kazanskaia Vadim Chepegin, Liwei Liu, and Nikolay Mehandjiev Knowledge-Driven Adaptive Production Management Based on Real-Time User Feedback and Ontology Updates 4755 Daria Kazanskaia, Sergey Kozhevnikov, Vladimir Larukhin, Petr Skobelev Alexander Tsarev, and Yaroslav Shepilov Evaluation of an Ecosystem-Based Architecture for Adaptation to Cascades of Changes 4760 CÈsar A. MarÌn Systems Safety and Security - S20-01 Critical Infrastructures Governance Exploring SCADA Cybernetics through Architectured Policy Semantic 4766 Djamel Khadraoui and Christophe Feltus DNSsec in Isabelle - Replay Attack and Origin Authentication 4772 Florian Kamm¸ller, Yoney Kirsal-Ever, and Xiaochun Cheng On the Design of a System for Airport Protection against Terrorist Attacks Using MANPADs 4778 Ionescu Octavian and Pricop Emil Security Threats against the Communication Networks for Traffic Control Systems 4783 Huipu Fan, Yizhou Dong, Ming Yu, and Leonard Tung Chance-Constrained Programming Method by Constraints Aggregation for Social Consensus Making on IT Risk Countermeasure 4789 Katsunori Sato, Masaki Samejima, and Ryoichi Sasaki Performability Evaluation of Emergency System 4794 Marcus Queiroz, Paulo Maciel, Bruno Silva, and Almir P. Guimar„es 
lxxiv 


A Novel Automatic Load Shedding Scheme to Improve Survivability of Distribution Networks 4800 Hao-Tian Zhang, Loi Lei Lai, and Jiebei Zhu Future ICT-Enabled Manufacturing Execution - H12-01 An Exploratory Study into Automated Real-Time Categorisation of Engineering E-Mail 4806 James A. Gopsill, Stephen J. Payne, and Ben J. Hicks Automated Sound Signalling Device Quality Assurance Tool for Embedded Industrial Control Applications 4812 Tomasz Maniak, Rahat Iqbal, Faiyaz Doctor, and Chrisina Jayne Highly Flexible Self-Reconfigurable Systems for Rapid Layout Formation to Offer Manufacturing Services 4819 Victor M. Cedeno-Campos, Paul A. Trodden, Tony J. Dodd, and Jim Heley Physiologically Inspired Systems - S24-01 Human-Inspired Anticipative Postural Control Architecture for Humanoid Robots 4825 S. Martinez, A. JardÛn, and C. Balaguer Artificial Homeostasis for Engineering Systems: Involuntary Reflexes in Physiologically-Inspired Control Applications 4831 Carlos C. Insaurralde Learning from Big Data and Uncertainty - C06-01 Sample Selection Based on K-L Divergence for Effectively Training SVM 4837 Junhai Zhai and Chang Li A Reduction Algorithm for the Big Data in 3D Surface Reconstruction 4843 Jianwei Zhao, Yanqing Fu, Yuanpeng Tan, and Feilong Cao The Nested Structure in Fuzzy Rough Classifier 4848 Zhao Suyun, Chen Hong, Li Cuiping, and Chen Yu Medical Informatics - C17-01 Variation of Dynamic Muscle Model during Fatigue-Inducing Voluntary Contraction 4854 Youngjin Na, Suncheol Kwon, Jung Kim, and Changmok Choi Mining Clinical Pathway Using Clustering and Rule Induction 4860 Shusaku Tsumoto, Shoji Hirano, and Haruko Iwata 
lxxv 


Self-Organization and Emergence in Distributed Manufacturing Systems - S08-02 Characterization of Costs and Strategies for Automation in Evolvable Production Systems 4866 Antonio Maffei, Hakan Akillioglu, and Luis Flores Reliable Self-Learning Production Systems Based on Context Aware Services 4872 Sebastian Scholze, Dragan Stokic, Oliver Kotte, Jose Barata, Giovani Di Orio and Goncalo Candido Energy Efficiency in Machine Tools - A Self-Learning Approach 4878 Giovanni Di Orio, GoncÁlo C‚ndido, JosÈ Barata, JosÈ Luiz Bittencourt and Ralf Bonefeld Personalised Fuzzy Recommendation for High Involvement Products 4884 Vassilis C. Gerogiannis, Anthony Karageorgos, Liwei Liu, and Christos Tjortjis SMC: Systems Science - SYS-28 Semi-Gaku \(Semistry 4891 Toshinori Watanabe From Sense to Print: Towards Automatic 3D Printing from 3D Sensing Devices 4897 Nadia Figueroa, Haiwei Dong, and Abdulmotaleb El Saddik Computationally Tractable Approaches to Modeling the Coverage of Weather Sensor Networks 4905 Ziho Kang and Ellen J. Bass Information-Theoretic Characterization of Uncertainty in Manual Control 4913 Dari Trendafilov and Roderick Murray-Smith Healthcare and Enterprise Systems - S03-01 Mitigating Collisions in Saturated Wireless Network with Receiver Token Ring 4919 Liuxiao Zheng, Kewang Zhang, and Deyun Zhang Design of BCI Based Multi-information System to Restore Hand Motor Function for Stroke Patients 4924 Lin Gao, Jue Wang, Jin Li, and Yang Zheng SMC: Systems Science - SYS-29 A Small-Scale Traffic Monitoring System in Urban Wireless Sensor Networks 4929 Jin Zhou, C. L. Philip Chen, and Long Chen Decentralized Control for Second-Order Uncertain Nonlinear Multi-agent Systems Consensus Problem Based on Fuzzy Adaptive High-Gain Observer 4935 Changíe Ren and C.L. Philip Chen 
lxxvi 


Adaptive NN Consensus Control for a Class of Nonlinear Multi-agent Time-Delay Systems 4941 Guo-Xing Wen and C.L. Philip Chen Author Index 4947 
lxxvii 


Ridha, Ben Abdennour National School of Engineers of Gabes  FrB13 Olympic PID Control Lecture Session Chair: Hernandez-Guzman, Victor M Univ. Autonoma De Queretaro Co-Chair: Gambier, Adrian Univ. of Heidelberg 13:40-14:00 FrB13.1 MPC and PID Control Based on Multi-Objective Optimization pp. 4727-4732 Gambier, Adrian Univ. of Heidelberg 14:00-14:20 FrB13.2 Optimal PID Controller Design Using Standard Optimal Control Techniques pp. 4733-4738 O'Brien, Richard United States Naval Acad Howe III, Jamie United States Naval Acad 14:20-14:40 FrB13.3 P Quasi-I D Control for MIMO Systems_; ---Stabilization Based on High Gain Output Feedback pp. 4739-4745 Shimizu, Kiyotaka Keio Univ Tamura, Kenichi Keio Univ 14:40-15:00 FrB13.4 Robust Stabilization and PID Control for Nonlinear Discretized Systems on a Grid Pattern pp. 4746-4751 Okuyama, Yoshifumi Humanitech Lab 15:00-15:20 FrB13.5 Synthesis of PID Controller with Guaranteed Stability Margin for a Class of Unstable MIMO Systems pp. 4752-4754 Chang, Tsu-Shuan Univ. of California, Davis 15:20-15:40 FrB13.6 Modified Relay Feedback Test and Its Use for Non-Parametric Loop Tuning pp. 4755-4760 Boiko, Igor IMB Controls  FrB14 Adams Adaptive Control II Lecture Session Chair: Niemann, Henrik Tech. Univ. of Denmark Co-Chair: Bernstein, Dennis S Univ. of Michigan 13:40-14:00 FrB14.1 Adaptive Output-Feedback Control of MIMO Plants with Unknown, Time-Varying State Delay pp. 4761-4766 Mirkin, Boris Tech. -- Israel Inst. of Tech Gutman, Per-Olof Tech. Inst. of Tech Falcone, Paolo Chalmers Univ. of Tech 14:00-14:20 FrB14.2 Markov-Parameter-Based Adaptive Control of 3-Axis Angular Velocity in a Six-Degree-Of-Freedom Stewart Platform pp. 4767-4772 Pence, Benjamin Univ. of Michigan Santillo, Mario Univ. of Michigan Bernstein, Dennis S Univ. of Michigan 14:20-14:40 FrB14.3 Discrete Time Lyapunov Stable Staggered Estimator MIMO Adaptive Interference Cancelation with Experimental Verification pp 4773-4778 Arif, Jawad Inst. of Avionics and Aeronautical Engineering Akhtar, Suhail Inst. of Avionics and Aeronautical Engineering 14:40-15:00 FrB14.4 Control System Design for Retinal Imaging Adaptive Optics Systems pp. 4779-4784 Ficocelli, Maurizio Univ. of Toronto Ben Amara, Foued Univ. of Toronto 15:00-15:20 FrB14.5 Adaptive Controller Design and Disturbance Attenuation for Sequentially Interconnected SISO Linear Systems under Noisy Output Measurements with Partly Measured Disturbances pp. 4785-4790 Zeng, Sheng Hewlett-Packard Company Fernandez, Emmanuel Univ. of Cincinnati 15:20-15:40 FrB14.6 Homography-Based Visual Servo Control Via an Uncalibrated Camera pp. 4791-4796 Hu, Guoqiang Univ. of Florida Mackunis, William Univ. of Florida Gans, Nicholas Univ. of Florida Dixon, Warren E Univ. of Florida  


FrB15 Blakeley Uncertain Systems I Lecture Session Chair: Huang, Jie Chinese Univ. of Hong Kong Co-Chair: Haggblom, Kurt E Abo Akademi Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB15.1 Improved Robust Du-Stability Measures Via S-Procedure pp. 4797-4802 Sari, Bilal Univ. of Poitiers Bachelier, Olivier Univ. of Poitiers Mehdi, Driss ESIP-LAII Al Chaer, Toufic Univ. of Poitiers 14:00-14:20 FrB15.2 Robust H_inf SMC of Uncertain Switched Systems with Time Delay pp. 4803-4808 Lian, Jie Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB15.3 Two Algorithms for Model Quality Estimation in State-Space Systems with Time-Varying Parameter Uncertainty pp. 4809-4814 Salehpour, Soheil Lule Univ. of Tech Johansson, Andreas Lulea Univ. of Tech 14:40-15:00 FrB15.4 Robust H_{infty} Control for a Class of Uncertain Neutral Time-Delay Systems Via Dynamic Output Feedback pp. 4815-4820 Sun, Man Beihang Univ Jia, Yingmin Beihang Univ Du, Junping Beijing Univ. of Posts and Telecommunications Yuan, Shiying Henan Pol. Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB15.5 The Servomechanism Problem for Unknown MIMO LTI Positive Systems: Feedforward and Robust Tuning Regulators pp. 4821-4826 Roszak, Bartek Univ. of Toronto Davison, Edward J Univ. of Toronto 15:20-15:40 FrB15.6 Parameter Convergence with an Adaptive Output Regulation Problem pp. 4827-4832 Liu, Lu Chinese Univ. of HongKong Chen, Zhiyong The Univ. of Newcastle Huang, Jie Chinese Univ. of Hong Kong  FrB16 Cascade I \(C Spacecraft Control I Lecture Session Chair: Krishnakumar, Kalmanje NASA Ames Res. Center Co-Chair: Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB16.1 Space Station Zero-Propellant Maneuver Guidance Trajectories Compared to Eigenaxis pp. 4833-4838 Bedrossian, Nazareth Charles Stark Draper Lab Bhatt, Sagar The Charles Stark Draper Lab. Inc 14:00-14:20 FrB16.2 Attitude Tracking with Adaptive Rejection of Rate Gyro Disturbances pp. 4839-4844 Pisu, Pierluigi Clemson Univ Serrani, Andrea The Ohio State Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB16.3 Stabilization of the Angular Velocity of a Rigid Body System Using Two Torques: Energy Matching Condition pp. 4845-4849 Aguilar-Ibanez, Carlos Centro De Investigacion En Computacion Suarez-Castanon, Miguel Santiago Inst. Pol. Nacional Guzman-Aguilar, Florencio ESCOM-IPN 14:40-15:00 FrB16.4 Satellite Attitude Control Using Three Reaction Wheels pp. 4850-4855 Nudehi, Shahin MIchigan State Farooq, Umar Michigan State Univ Alasty, Aria Sharif Univ. of Tech Issa, Jimmy Michigan State Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB16.5 Satellite Attitude Control Using Statistical Game Theory pp. 4856-4861 Lee, Jong-Ha Temple Univ Diersing, Ronald Univ. of Southern Indiana Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 15:20-15:40 FrB16.6 Uniform Practical Output-Feedback Stabilization of Spacecraft Relative Rotation pp. 4862-4867 


Kristiansen, Raymond Narvik Univ. Coll Loria, Antonio CNRS Chaillet, Antoine Univ. Paris Sud Nicklasson, Per Johan Narvik Univ. Coll  FrB17 Whidbey Fuzzy Systems Lecture Session Chair: Lin, Jonqlan Ching Yun Univ Co-Chair: Langari, Reza Texas A&M Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB17.1 A Fuzzy-Based Reconstruction Algorithm for Estimating Metal Fill Profile in Lost Foam Casting pp. 4868-4874 Deabes, Wael Tennessee Tech. Univ Abdelrahman, Mohamed A Tennessee Tech. Univ Rajan, P. K Tennessee Tech. Univ 14:00-14:20 FrB17.2 An SOS-Based Stable Control of Polynomial Discrete Fuzzy Systems pp. 4875-4880 Tanaka, Kazuo Univ. of Electro-Communications Ohtake, Hiroshi Univ. of Electro-communications Wang, Hua O Boston Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB17.3 Fuzzy Model-Based Servo Control for Discrete-Time Nonlinear Systems pp. 4881-4886 Ohtake, Hiroshi Univ. of Electro-communications Tanaka, Kazuo Univ. of Electro-Communications Wang, Hua O Boston Univ 14:40-15:00 FrB17.4 Nonquadratic Lyapunov Function Based Control Law Design for Discrete Fuzzy Systems with State and Input Delays pp. 4887-4892 Sun, Yuming Jiangnan Univ Shen, Yanxia Southern Yangtze Univ Ji, Zhicheng Southern Yangtze Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB17.5 Designing a Hierarchical Fuzzy Controller for Backing-Up a Four Wheel Autonomous Robot pp. 4893-4897 Shahmaleki, Pourya Shiraz Univ Mahzoon, Mojtaba Shiraz Univ 15:20-15:40 FrB17.6 Adaptive Fuzzy Control of Unknown Nonlinear Systems with Actuator Failures for Robust Output Tracking pp. 4898-4903 Li, Ping Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ  FrB18 Vashon I Delay Systems I Lecture Session Chair: Rodrigues, Luis Concordia Univ Co-Chair: Sipahi, Rifat Northeastern Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB18.1 Recursive Predictor Design for Linear Systems with Time Delay pp. 4904-4909 Jankovic, Mrdjan Ford Res. and Advanced Engineering 14:00-14:20 FrB18.2 Convex Analysis and Synthesis for Uncertain Discrete-Time Systems with Time-Varying State Delay pp. 4910-4915 Miranda, Marcio Fantini Federal Univ. of Minas Gerais Leite, Valter J. S CEFET/MG - Campus Div 14:20-14:40 FrB18.3 Lyapunov Tools for Predictor Feedbacks for Delay Systems: Inverse Optimality and Robustness to Delay Mismatch pp. 4916-4921 Krstic, Miroslav Univ. of California at San Diego 14:40-15:00 FrB18.4 Chain Stability in Traffic Flow with Driver Reaction Delays pp. 4922-4927 Sipahi, Rifat Northeastern Univ Niculescu, Silviu-Iulian CNRS-Supelec 15:00-15:20 FrB18.5 Robust Control and Time-Domain Specifications for Systems of Delay Differential Equations Via Eigenvalue Assignment pp. 4928-4933 Yi, Sun Univ. of Michigan Nelson, Patrick Univ. of Michigan Ulsoy, A. Galip Univ. of Michigan 15:20-15:40 FrB18.6 


Stabilization of Discrete Time-Varying Delay Systems: A Convex Parameter Dependent Approach pp. 4934-4939 Leite, Valter J. S CEFET/MG - Campus Div Miranda, Marcio Fantini Federal Univ. of Minas Gerais  FrC03 Grand Ballroom III Robust Control Lecture Session Chair: Fujita, Masayuki Tokyo Inst. of Tech Co-Chair: Lanusse, Patrick Bordeaux 1 Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC03.1 An Improved Version of of the RBode Plot pp. 4940-4945 Xia, Lu Carnegie Mellon Univ Messner, William Carnegie Mellon Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC03.2 Robust H Infinity Control of an Uncertain System Via a Stable Postive Real Output Feedback Controller pp. 4946-4953 Petersen, Ian R UNSW at Australian Def. Force Acad 16:40-17:00 FrC03.3 Fractional Robust Control with Iso-Damping Property pp. 4954-4959 Pommier-Budinger, Valerie ISAE Janat, Yaman ENSICA Nelson Gruel, Dominique Bordeaux 1 Lanusse, Patrick Bordeaux 1 Univ Oustaloup, Alain Univ. Bordeaux 1 - ENSEIRB - ENSCPB 17:00-17:20 FrC03.4 Relaxed Robust Stabilization of Nonlinear Systems with Parametric Uncertainties pp. 4960-4965 Chen, Zhaona Northeastern Univ Zheng, Xiuping Northeastern Univ Jing, Yuanwei Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul 17:20-17:40 FrC03.5 Gamma-Independent H-Inf-Discretization of Sampled-Data Systems by Modified Fast-Sample/Fast-Hold Approximation with Fast Liftin g pp 4966-4972 Hagiwara, Tomomichi Kyoto Univ Okada, Koichiro Kyoto Univ  FrC05 Grand Ballroom II Networked Control Systems III Lecture Session Chair: Lemmon, Michael Univ. of Notre Dame Co-Chair: Martins, Nuno C Univ. of Maryland 16:00-16:20 FrC05.1 Network-Based H_{infty} Control of Systems with Packet Dropout and Time-Varying Sampling Period pp. 4973-4978 Wang, Yu-Long Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC05.2 On Transmitter Design in Power Constrained LQG Control pp. 4979-4984 Breun, Peter Tech. Univ. Munich \(TUM Utschick, Wolfgang TUM 16:40-17:00 FrC05.3 On Decentralized Optimal Control and Information Structures pp. 4985-4990 Motee, Nader Univ. of Pennsylvania Jadbabaie, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Bamieh, Bassam Univ. of California at Santa Barbara 17:00-17:20 FrC05.4 Stabilization of Networked Control Systems with Large Delays and Packet Dropouts pp. 4991-4996 Cloosterman, Marieke Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Van De Wouw, Nathan Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Heemels, Maurice Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Nijmeijer, Hendrik Eindhoven Univ. of Tech 17:20-17:40 FrC05.5 Stability Analysis for a Class of Networked/embedded Control Systems: A Discrete-Time Approach pp. 4997-5002 Fujioka, Hisaya Kyoto Univ  


FrC06 5th Avenue Games and Decision Processes Lecture Session Chair: Neogi, Natasha A Univ. of Illinois Co-Chair: Sundaram, Shreyas Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 16:00-16:20 FrC06.1 Robust Markov Decision Processes Using Sigma Point Sampling pp. 5003-5008 Bertuccelli, Luca F Massachusetts Inst. of Tech How, Jonathan P MIT 16:20-16:40 FrC06.2 Multi-Cumulant and Pareto Strategies for Stochastic Multi-Player Pursuit-Evasion pp. 5009-5015 Pham, Khanh D Air Force Res. Lab Lacy, Seth L Air Force Res. Lab Robertson, Lawrence AIR FORCE Res. Lab 16:40-17:00 FrC06.3 Recursive Computation of Stochastic Nash Games with State-Dependent Noise for Weakly-Coupled Large-Scale Systems pp. 5016-5022 Mukaidani, Hiroaki Hiroshima Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC06.4 N Player Nash Cumulant Games pp. 5023-5028 Diersing, Ronald Univ. of Southern Indiana Sain, Michael K Univ. of Notre Dame Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 17:20-17:40 FrC06.5 A Potential-Based Method for Finite-Stage Markov Decision Processes pp. 5029-5034 Jia, Qing-Shan Tsinghua Univ  FrC09 Vashon II Multivehicle Systems Lecture Session Chair: Martinez, Sonia Univ. of California at San Diego Co-Chair: Pagilla, Prabhakar R Oklahoma State Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC09.1 Elastic Multi-Particle Systems for Bounded-Curvature Path Planning pp. 5035-5040 Ahmadzadeh, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Jadbabaie, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Pappas, George J Univ. of Pennsylvania Kumar, Vijay Univ. of Pennsylvania 16:20-16:40 FrC09.2 Value-Based Control of the Observation-Decision Process pp. 5041-5046 McEneaney, William Univ. of California, San Diego Oran, Ali Univ. of California, San Diego Cavender, Andrew Univ. of California, San Diego 16:40-17:00 FrC09.3 Decentralized Control Based on the Value of Information in Large Vehicle Arrays pp. 5047-5054 Speyer, Jason L Univ. of California at Los Angeles Seok, Ilwoo UCLA Michelin, Andre UCLA 17:00-17:20 FrC09.4 Decentralized Reactive Collision Avoidance for Multiple Unicycle-Type Vehicles pp. 5055-5061 Lalish, Emmett Univ. of Washington Morgansen, Kristi A Univ. of Washington Tsukamaki, Takashi The Boeing Company 17:20-17:40 FrC09.5 On Robust Control Algorithms for Nonlinear Network Consensus Protocols pp. 5062-5067 Hui, Qing Georgia Inst. of Tech Haddad, Wassim M Georgia Inst. of Tech Bhat, Sanjay P Indian Inst. of Tech. - Bombay  FrC10 Cascade I \(A Switched Nonlinear Systems Lecture Session Chair: Cortes, Jorge Univ. of California at San Diego Co-Chair: Najson, Federico Univ. de la Rep˙blica 16:00-16:20 FrC10.1 Robust H-Infinity Control for a Class of Uncertain Switched Nonlinear Systems Using Constructive Approach pp. 5068-5073 


Li, Li-li Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC10.2 Average Dwell-Time Method to L2-Gain Analysis and Control Synthesis for Uncertain Switched Nonlinear Systems pp. 5074-5079 Wang, Min Northeast Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 16:40-17:00 FrC10.3 H_infinity Control for a Class of Non-Minimum-Phase Cascade Switched Nonlinear Systems pp. 5080-5085 Wang, Min Northeast Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC10.4 Applications of a Model Matching Framework in Switched Systems pp. 5086-5091 Jiang, Shengxiang Univ. of California, Santa Barbara Voulgaris, Petros G Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 17:20-17:40 FrC10.5 Fast-Switching Pulse Synchronization of Chaotic Oscillators pp. 5092-5097 Fiorilli, Francesca Pol. Univ Porfiri, Maurizio Pol. Univ  FrC11 Cascade I \(B Modeling and Simulation Lecture Session Chair: Braatz, Richard D Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign Co-Chair: Ou, Yongsheng Lehigh Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC11.1 Stack-Level Validation of a Semi-Analytic Channel-To-Channel Fuel Cell Model for Two-Phase Water Distribution Boundary Value Co ntrol  pp. 5098-5103 McCain, Buz Univ. of Michigan Siegel, Jason Univ. of Michigan Stefanopoulou, Anna G Univ. of Michigan 16:20-16:40 FrC11.2 Modeling and Simulation of PEM Fuel Cell with Bond Graph and 20sim pp. 5104-5108 Peraza, Cesar Inst. Univ. TecnolÛgico Valencia Diaz, Jose Gregorio Univ. de Carabobo Arteaga-Bravo, Francisco J Univ. de Carabobo Villanueva, Carlos Univ. de Carabobo Gonzalez-Longatt, Francisco UNEFA 16:40-17:00 FrC11.3 An Improved Finite Element Model of Incremental Forming Using Conic Programming pp. 5109-5114 Raithatha, Ankor Mahendra Oxford Univ Duncan, Stephen Univ. of Oxford 17:00-17:20 FrC11.4 Study of Three Different Approaches for Development of Power System Aggregated Load Area Models pp. 5115-5120 Wei, Jianlin Univ. of Birmingham Wang, Jihong Univ. of Birmingham Wu, Q. Henry Univ. of Liverpool Jia, Nan Univ. of Liverpool Lu, Nan Univ. of Liverppol 17:20-17:40 FrC11.5 Adaptive Synchronization for a Class of Complex Delayed Dynamical Networks pp. 5121-5126 Zhong, Wei-Song Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ  FrC12 Orcas Nonlinear Control Analysis and Applications II Lecture Session Chair: Sanfelice, Ricardo G Univ. of California Santa Barbara Co-Chair: Reger, Johann Tech. Univ. Berlin 16:00-16:20 FrC12.1 Planning a Finite Time Transition from a Non-Stationary to a Stationary Point without Overshoot pp. 5127-5129 Reger, Johann Tech. Univ. Berlin 


16:20-16:40 FrC12.2 Stabilizing Control of Symmetric Affine Systems by Direct Gradient Descent Control pp. 5130-5135 Tamura, Kenichi Keio Univ Shimizu, Kiyotaka Keio Univ 16:40-17:00 FrC12.3 Transfer Equivalence and Reduction of Nonlinear Delta Differential Equations on Homogeneous Time Scale pp. 5136-5141 Casagrande, Daniele Imperial Coll. London Kotta, ‹lle Inst. of Cybernetics at TUT Wyrwas, Malgorzata Tallinn Univ. of Tech Tonso, Maris Inst. of Cybernetics at Tallinn Univ. of 17:00-17:20 FrC12.4 QFT Control for Vibration Reduction in Structures Equipped with MR Dampers pp. 5142-5144 Zapateiro, Mauricio Univ. of Girona Luo, Ningsu Univ. of Girona Karimi, Hamid Reza Univ. of Girona 17:20-17:40 FrC12.5 A Constructive Lyapunov Function for Controlling the Inverted Pendulum pp. 5145-5149 Aguilar-Ibanez, Carlos Centro De Investigacion En Computacion  FrC14 Adams Robust and Adaptive Control II Lecture Session Chair: Packard, Andrew K Univ. of California at Berkeley Co-Chair: Schofield, Brad Lund Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC14.1 An Initial Study of a Combined Robust and Adaptive Control Approach to Guaranteed Performance Flight Control pp. 5150-5155 Boskovic, Jovan D Scientific Systems Co. Inc Knoebel, Nathan Scientific Systems Company INC Mehra, Raman K Scientific Systems Co. Inc 16:20-16:40 FrC14.2 Adaptive Control Using Reduced-Order Observers pp. 5156-5161 Boskovic, Jovan D Scientific Systems Co. Inc Knoebel, Nathan Scientific Systems Company INC 16:40-17:00 FrC14.3 Adaptive Robust Control of Uncertain Neutral Time-Delay Systems pp. 5162-5167 Moezzi, Kaveh Concordia Univ Aghdam, Amir G Concordia Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC14.4 Practical Robust Adaptive Control: Benchmark Example pp. 5168-5173 Kuipers, Matthew Univ. of Southern California Ioannou, Petros A Univ. of Southern California 17:20-17:40 FrC14.5 Adaptive Hybrid Control for Omnidirectional Mobile Manipulators Using Neural Network pp. 5174-5179 Tan, Xiangmin Key Lab. of Complex SystemsandIntelligentScience,Inst. Auto Zhao, Dongbin Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences Yi, Jianqiang Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences Xu, Dong Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences  FrC15 Blakeley Uncertain Systems II Lecture Session Chair: Hu, Jianghai Purdue Univ Co-Chair: Zak, Stanislaw H Purdue Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC15.1 Control of Uncertain Systems with Guaranteed Performance pp. 5180-5185 Lian, Jianming Purdue Univ Sudhoff, Scott Purdue Univ Zak, Stanislaw H Purdue Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC15.2 Estimation of Model Uncertainties in Closed-Loop Systems pp. 5186-5191 Niemann, Henrik Tech. Univ. of Denmark Poulsen, Niels Kj lstad Tech. Univ. of Denmark 16:40-17:00 FrC15.3 Integral Controllability and Integrity for Uncertain Systems pp. 5192-5197 


H‰ggblom, Kurt E bo Akademi Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC15.4 Optimal Timing of Control Law Updates for Unstable Systems with Continuous Control pp. 5198-5203 Gustafson, Eric Univ. of Michigan Scheeres, Daniel The Univ. of Michigan 17:20-17:40 FrC15.5 Network-Based Robust H_infty Control of Continuous-Time Systems with Uncertainty pp. 5204-5209 Zhu, Xun-Lin Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ  FrC16 Cascade I \(C Spacecraft Control II Lecture Session Chair: Su, Chun-Yi Concordia Univ Co-Chair: Ghose, Debasish Indian Inst. of Science 16:20-16:40 FrC16.2 Time Optimal Attitude Control for a Rigid Body pp. 5210-5215 Lee, Taeyoung Univ. of Michigan Leok, Melvin Purdue Univ McClamroch, N. Harris Univ. of Michigan 16:40-17:00 FrC16.3 A Novel Application of an Extended State Observer for High Performance Control of NASAís HSS Flywheel pp. 5216-5221 Alexander, B.X.S Cleveland State Univ Rarick, Richard Cleveland State Univ Dong, Lili Cleveland State Univ 17:20-17:40 FrC16.5 Perturbed Feedback Linearization of Attitude Dynamics pp. 5222-5229 Bajodah, Abdulrahman H King Abdulaziz Univ  FrC17 Whidbey Observers for Nonlinear Systems Lecture Session Chair: Celikovsky, Sergej Acad. of Science Co-Chair: Subbarao, Kamesh The Univ. of Texas, Arlington 16:00-16:20 FrC17.1 Discrete-Time Mixed H2/H-Infinity Nonlinear Filtering pp. 5230-5235 Aliyu, M. D. S Concordia Univ Boukas, El-Kebir Ec. Pol. de Montreal 16:20-16:40 FrC17.2 A Minimal Dimension Observer for Global Frequency Estimation pp. 5236-5241 Carnevale, Daniele Univ. di Roma Astolfi, Alessandro Imperial Coll. London and Univ. of Rome 16:40-17:00 FrC17.3 Time Scaling of a Multi-Output Observer Form pp. 5242-5247 Wang, Yebin Univ. of Alberta Lynch, Alan Francis Univ. of Alberta 17:00-17:20 FrC17.4 Sliding Mode Adaptive State Observation for Time-Delay Uncertain Nonlinear Systems pp. 5248-5253 Raoufi, Reza Univ. of Alberta Zinober, Alan The Univ. of Sheffield 17:20-17:40 FrC17.5 Observer with Sample-And-Hold Updating for Lipschitz Nonlinear Systems with Nonuniformly Sampled Measurements pp. 5254-5257 Raff, Tobias Univ. of Stuttgart Allgower, Frank Univ. of Stuttgart  FrC18 Vashon I Delay Systems II Lecture Session Chair: Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila Co-Chair: Jankovic, Mrdjan Ford Res. and Advanced Engineering 16:00-16:20 FrC18.1 Semi-Algebraic Problem Approach for Stability Analysis of a Class of Nonlinear Stochastic Delay System pp. 5258-5263 Kashima, Kenji Tokyo Inst. of Tech 


16:20-16:40 FrC18.2 ISS Control Laws for Retarded Stabilizable Systems by Means of the Liapunov-Krasovskii Methodology pp. 5264-5269 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 16:40-17:00 FrC18.3 If a Retarded System Is Linearizable and Stabilizable, Then It Is Input-To-State Stabilizable pp. 5270-5275 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 17:00-17:20 FrC18.4 ISS Control Laws for Retarded Stabilizable Systems by Means of the Liapunov-Razumikhin Methodology pp. 5276-5281 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 17:20-17:40 FrC18.5 On the Zeros of Quasi-Polynomials with Single Delay pp. 5282-5286 Gumussoy, Suat The MathWorks Inc  


