1 Focal Plane Array Receiver for Deep-Space Communication V. Vilnrotter, M. Britcliffe, D. Hoppe Jet Propulsion Laboratory 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA  91109 818 Victor.A.Vilnrotter@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract Typical ground antennas intended for use in space communication require la rge apertures operating at high frequencies. The challenges involved with these applications include achieving the required antenna performance in terms of antenna aperture efficiency and pointing accuracy. The utilization of a focal plane array in place of a standard single mode feed minimizes these 
problems. This paper discusses the key elements required to implement a focal plane array on a large high frequency antenna. It is shown that adaptive “least mean-square LMS\gorithms applied to the output of the array elements obtain the optimum combining weights in realtime, even in the presence of dynamic interference such as nearby spacecraft in array’s fi eld-of-view, or planetary radiation. This adaptive optimization capability maximizes the combined output SNR in real time, ensuring maximum data throughput in the communications link when operating in the presence of receiver noi se and external interference generally present during planetary encounters 
12  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  T HEORETICAL FPA  P ERFORMANCE 1  3  S UMMARY AND C ONCLUSION 9  4  R EFERENCES 
10  1  I NTRODUCTION  This paper examines the concep tual design and the expected performance of a cryogenically cooled focal plane array receiver system designed fo r deep space communications applications. In particular, focal plane array \(FPA receivers are investigated as a solution for recovering lost focal plane energy in large antennas intended for 32 GHz deep space comm Large aperture radio astronomy researchers have also used array feeds to produce multiple beams on the sky in the 26 to 30 GHz band [2 The system described here uses a focal plane array of patch 
antennas that is designed to allow the energy in the focalplane to be more efficiently coupled into the receiver. In addition to the increase in c oupling efficiency, the patch antenna approach allows the low noise amplifiers \(LNA 1  1 1-4244-1488-1/08 25.00 ©2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1391, Version 2, Updated Dec. 14, 2007 be coupled directly to the elements, lowering complexity and cryogenic cooling requirements, and making implementation in a limited space easier Although the array receiver confi 
guration presented here is applicable to virtually any antenna, the modeling and simulation is based on 32 GHz operation on a DSN 70m antenna.  The 70 m antenna was chosen as an example for several reasons. First of all Ka-band operation on a 7 0m antenna is a worse case scenar io. The ratio of the operating wavelength to antenna diameter is challenging and would normally require adaptive mech anical compensation of the main reflector surface, or si milar costly and complicated techniques to achieve the desired performance. Secondly, a 32 GHz array receiver using horn antennas was demonstrated on a 70m ante  and t h e avai l a bl e dat a  allows a direct comparison to 
show the advantage of the patch array antenna configuration. Finally, there is a substantial amount of data available on the actual surface deformation of the 70m antenna for analysis and modeling   2  T HEORETICAL FPA  P ERFORMANCE  In this section we will discuss the electromagnetic modeling of the FPA. We have chosen to use the Deep Space Network \(DSN\eter dual-shaped antenna for this performance investigation. The main reason for choosing this particular antenna is that it suffers from significant gain 
loss as a function of elevation angle. The gain loss is a result of distortion of the primary reflector which changes as the antenna tips in eleva tion, causing a relative change between the orientation of the gravity vector and the primary. This phenomenon exists, but to a lesser extent, on the DSN 34-meter antennas as well. As we shall see the focal plane array is quite eff ective in compensating for this particular gain loss. In addition we wish to illustrate the ability of the focal plane array to reduce blind pointing requirements for large antennas 


2 Qualitative Results  The left panel of Figure 1 shows the primary focal plane distribution when the antenna is receiving at an elevation angle of 45 degrees. In this particular case the X and Y axis scale is in pixel units rather than engineering units. For this elevation angle the distortion is minimum, and a wellformed spot is visible. The energy distribution is wellmatched to a corrugated feed horn and can be efficiently collected. If the energy is not collected but allowed to pass through the re-imaging optics and onto the focal plane array, we may compute the array element excitation as shown in the right panel of Figure 1. For this particular magnification the energy falls primarily on nine pixels and is efficiently collected by the focal plane array The extreme case of an elevation angle of 85 degrees is illustrated in Figure 2. In this case the antenna is severely distorted and the primary focal plane distribution is multilobed. Only a few percent of this energy is available for coupling into a standard corrugated feed horn. Next, the energy passes through the re-imaging optics and on to the focal plane array where it can be collected with relatively high efficiency as shown in the right hand panel of Figure 2 The image flip that occurs between the primary and secondary focal planes is visible in this figure. Although 


3 this image flip is present at all elevations including 45 degrees, the near symmetry of the results makes it difficult to detect in the previous figure.  These results illustrate the advantage of the focal plane a rray relative to a single feed horn for this particular application. Even though the energy is significantly spread out in the focal plane it can be collected efficiently by the array Compensation of Gravity Induced Surface Distortions In this section we address the quantitative performance of the array for gravity compensation as a function of the number of elements in the array and the magnification factor. Clearly, increasing the number of elements, or equivalently the size of the array, will always be beneficial regardless of the magnification. This is true since larger arrays have access to more of the focal plane energy although the benefit can be out-weighed by the cost and complexity of the array which grows in proportion to the number of elements Figure 3 plots the computed antenna efficiency versus elevation angle and number of array elements for a reimaging magnification factor of two. Here antenna efficiency is defined as th e ratio of computed physical optics gain to the theoretical gain of a 70-meter circular aperture with uniform illumi nation. For the undistorted dual-shaped antenna this effici ency approaches 91% when a single matched corrugated horn is used as the feed. In practice many additional losses such as high-order surface errors, panel setting, secondary positioning, etc. will reduce this ‘theoretical’ efficiency fu rther. For the purposes of this study these effects are ignored In this case, we plot results for efficiency ve rsus elevation angle for arrays containing 1,9,25,49, and 81 elements, as well as those for a single matched corrugated horn as a comparison. The horn result is effectively the performance of the antenna as presently configured. For this particular set of distortions we see that the horn feed, the cyan curve achieves only 70% efficiency n ear an elevation angle of 45 degrees, whereas 90% is theoretically available. This is due to the residual distortion of the antenna present at 45 degrees.  This efficiency falls to below 50% for an elevation angle of 15 degrees and below 5% for an extreme elevation angle of 85 degrees. For this particular magnification a 9element array covers approximately the same area as the matched horn and gives similar performance. Larger arrays are increasingly more effectiv e in capturing the focal plane energy at elevation angles removed from 45 degrees. The 81-element array improves the efficiency at 85 degrees elevation from less than 5% to greater than 50%. The array is also effective in recovering the efficiency lost due to the 


4 residual distortion at 45 degrees. Apparently there is still significant energy spilling past the array for elevation angles larger than 70 degrees. The situation can be improved by increasing the magnification of the re-imaging optics Figure 4 illustrates this point by plotting efficiency versus elevation angle for an 81-element array for three magnifications, namely 2, 3, and 4.  All array results are superior to the single horn result. Increasing magnification improves array performance for large elevation angles, but actually degrades performance near 45 degrees. This is because the results for large el evation angles are dominated by the advantage of large magnification values putting more energy on the array, despite the loss in resolution of an individual element. On the other hand, near elevation angles of 45 degrees the spot extent is small and the results are dominated by the decrease in element resolution, and hence increasing the magnification actually hinders the performance of the array The above results illustrate the benefits of the focal plane array over a single horn feed for an antenna with severe elevation-dependent distortion such as the DSN 70-meter antenna. Although this antenna represents the greatest challenge for operation at 32 GHz in the DSN, the 34 meter antennas can benefit from the array as well. For these antennas the elevation distortion is less severe but other distortions occur as well, and these can also be compensated for by the array. For exampl e wind-induced and thermally induced distortions can be comp ensated in exactly the same way as gravity induced distortions assuming that their time scale is consistent with the bandwidth of the signal processing scheme used to combine the signals from the array.  Another significant source of gain loss in DSN antennas operating at 32 GHz is secondary positioning error.  This error is much more benign than 70-meter gravity distortions, and can also easily be compensated for by the focal plane array Optimum Weight Estimation via the LMS Algorithm The array output voltages are downconverted to complex baseband, and sampled at a rate commensurate with the data bandwidth, that is, at the Nyquist rate. The vector of complex samples serve as the input to the signal processing assembly, which estimates the optimum combining weights performs multiplication of the signal samples by the optimum complex weights, and combines the weighted signals to provide a single output with maximum signal-tonoise ratio \(SNR\r, in case there is spatially resolved interference, maximum signalto-interference-noise-ratio SINR 


5 The downconverted complex signal sample at time n in the i th channel can be represented as   n s i and additive noise samples originating in the i th channel amplifier are denoted by   n v i These noise samples are assumed to be independent from sample to sample in each channel, as well as between channels. In addition to amplifier noise, the focal-plane array may collect correlated noise samples originating from unresolved sources within the FPA’s fieldof view, such as from a plan et. Extended planetary sources can be represented as clusters of point sources, as described in   however here we consi d er onl y a si ngl e i n t e rferi ng point source, generating samples   n b i  As shown in Figure 5, the observed signal vector consists of three vector components, namely signal samples, amplifier noise samples, and point-source interference samples         n n n n v b s u     For a vector of complex array signals accompanied by additive noise, a set of optimum weights exist that maximize the SINR of the combined sum. As derived in by di rect  application of the Schwarz inequality specifically for the case of focal-plane array signals observed in the presence of statistically independent additive noise, the optimum weights are proportional to the conjugate of the signal divided by the variance of the additive noise. Therefore, the optimum weight in the i th channel is of the form 2       i i i n s n w   where 2 i  denotes the variance of the additive noise in the i th channel. For the case of correlated noise, generated by a combination of pointsource interference and amplifier noise, the optimum weight vector that maximizes the SINR is known as the Wiener solution, and is of the form p R w 1    where R is the covariance matrix of the observable vector  ik H r n n E       u u R and where the correlation between the desired output signal samples d  n  required in the formulation of the LMS algorithm\ and the observable vector u  n is defined as      n d n E u p  Here the superscript H refers to Hermitian transpose, and asterisk denotes conjugation. For the case of an unmodulated tone the desired signal is the sum of the component signal amplitudes. However, for the case of modulated signals, a more general interpretation can be applied, whereby the desired signal may consist of the array-sum of known frame markers in the data-stream, partially decoded data-symbols obtained from hard decisions, or preliminary symbol estimates from the decoder itself Defining the error signal e  n as the difference between the desired output signal samples d  n here taken to be the data sequence itself\and the output of the array 


6       n n n y H u w   y  n signal can be expressed as       n y n d n e    Next, define the cost function   w J as the mean-squared error, and let    min w J J  where tilde denotes the optimum weight vector. Applying the definition of meansquared error directly, some vector algebra yields                  min 2 2 w w R w w w R w w p p w w          H H H H J n d E n e E J   Given an arbitrary initial weight-vector w 0  how do we converge to w    A well-know approach to minimizing cost in optimization is the method of “steepest descent” which can be described as the following two-step procedure 1  First, generate a sequence of weight vectors  1      1   0   n n w w w w such that the average cost is reduced at each iteration     1   n J n J w w    2  At each step, adjust the wei ght-vector in the direction opposite to the gradient of the cost function   w J   The steepest descent algorithm \(SDA\rmally defined in vector form as        1  2 1 n J n n w w w        It can be shown that p Rw w 2   2       n n J hence the SDA can be rewritten as follows  p w R w w          1  n n n    The parameter  is called the stepsize: it controls both the rate of convergence, and the steady-state SINR achieved by the combined output after convergence. If the theoretical expected values in the grad ient are replaced by their instantaneous values, available at each update in a real implementation, we arrive at the LMS algorithm Substituting instantaneous estimates for the expected values in the update equation, and carrying out the implied operations yields                              1     n n d n y n n d n n n n n n n n H u w u w u u w p w R w w               The RHS of the last equality represents the conventional form of the LMS update algorithm. Note that the expected value of the LMS descent vector is of the form    p w R w u u u                          n n d n n n E n d n y n E H  This demonstrates that the expected value of the LMS descent vector approaches zero as p Rw    n or equivalently when      1 n n w p R w    and hence stops updating the weights when the optimum weight-vector is achieved. This is the well-known Wiener solution that maximizes the SINR of the comb ined output.  When there is no interference, the optimum weight vector is proportional to the signal vector itself s w   When interfering sources are present, the optimum Wi ener solution maximizes the combined SINR, effectively mi nimizing the interference via spatial filtering while transmitting the required signal power to achieve optimum performance  LMS Algorithm Simulation Results Performance of the LMS algorith m has been evaluated by means of simulations. The FPA excitations were computed with the assumption of an undistorted antenna, both for an unmodulated signal source at normal incidence, and an interfering unresolved thermal point-source offset from the signal by approximately one antenna beamwidth First, we consider the eff ect of stepsize on LMS algorithm convergence. Two cases of the time-history of the combined output, when the LMS starts with the all-zeros weight vector, are shown in Figs. 6a and b    


7  


8 Note that with a stepsize of 0.0007, meaning that only this small fraction of the current update is applied to the weightvector, convergence takes place in approximately 1000 samples in Figure 6a \(this is where the combined output reaches its steady-state valu e\hen the stepsize is increased by a factor of 10 to 0.007, the output converges to its final value in approximately 100 samples as shown in Figure 6b, but also becomes somewhat noisier due to less accurate combining weight estimat es \(this is termed “weight misadjustment” noise in the literature 6a and 6b the observed performance degradation is minimal, it can become prohibitive with larger stepsize implying that a “best” value exists even for steady-state problems \(that is, problems where the optimum weights do not change with time\hen ch annel dynamics are present the minimum stepsize is generally determined by the convergence rate required to track the signal \(hence weight dynamics: in this case, there is generally an optimum stepsize, one that best balances the conflicting requirements of rapid response and noi se reduction through longer effective integration When the signal is observed in the presence of an interfering point-source \(such as an unresolved planet\as well as additive noise, the behavior of the LMS algorithm becomes more complex. Typical behavior is illustrated in Figure 7, which clearly shows an “interference cancellation region, in addition to the monotonic convergence to a steady-state value consider ed previously. When the interference power is much gr eater than the power of the additive noise, it tends to dominate the SINR until its direction of arrival is adequately determined by the LMS algorithm, and an effective nu ll of the focal plane array pattern is generated at the imaged location of the interference. The degree to wh ich this can be accomplished depends on the number of degrees of freedom in the FPA roughly the number of array elements\the separation of the interference from the signal source: if the interference is much closer to the signal source than the angular resolution of the antenna, little improvement is possible because nulling the interference al so results in nulling of the signal source. However, when the source-to-interference separation is a significant fraction of a beamwidth or greater, then distorting the beam can often result in greater interference suppression with minimal signal attenuation resulting in improved SINR. In general, the stronger the interference the faster the algor ithm estimates its direction and the faster it can adjust th e combining weights in order to suppress it. The example of Figure 7 shows that even with a relatively large stepsize of 0.001, convergence to steady-state SINR seems to occur after about 3000 samples which is about 3 times longer than required with additive noise alone \(at a comparable stepsize of 0.0007\This additional time to convergence must be taken into account 


9 when attempting to adaptively cancel an interference with time-varying relative geometry, such as would occur with a spacecraft orbiting a distant planet Compensation of Antenna Pointing Errors Pointing error is also a significant source of gain loss for the large antennas of the DSN at 32 GHz. Presently a complex monopulse pointing system is used to aid in pointing the DSN 34-meter antennas at 32 GHz. The blind pointing requirement on the antennas is driven by the pull-in range of this monopulse system requiring elaborate pointing models and calibration.  Use of a focal plane array eliminates the need for a monopulse system entirely, and greatly reduces the requireme nts on blind pointing accuracy and associated calibration effort Figure 8 shows the gain of the 70-meter antenna for signals appearing off bore-site when a single corrugated horn is used as the feed, and for th e case of an 81-element array used with a re-imaging magnification factor of three. The response for the single horn feed effectively is that of a uniform aperture, resulting in a 3-dB beamwidth of approximately 7.5 mdeg. Theref ore in practice the antenna must be pointed, without feedback, to approximately this accuracy before an active pointi ng control system such as a monopulse system or CONSCAN can be employed to actively point to the beam peak.  On the other hand, the response of the focal plane array to off-axis signals is quite forgiving, as illustrated by the black curve on the figure. In this case the response is not limited by the inherent beamwidth of the antenna, but rather by the field of view of the array. For this particular magnification and array size pointing errors of greater than +/- 20 mdeg can be accommodated  by the array with essentially no gain loss These pointing requirements are consistent with typical 8 GHz \(X-Band\ues, allowing operation of the 70-meter antenna at 32 GHz with no requirement for an additional active pointing system or improvements to the present blind pointing performance of the antenna. While illustrated here for the 70-meter antenna, exactly the same advantages exist for application of the FPA on a smaller, 34-meter DSN antenna. Relaxation of antenna pointing requirements is considered a major advantage of the focal plane array over a single horn feed 3  S UMMARY AND C ONCLUSION  The operational advantages of a focal-plane array receiver for use on large antennas of the Deep Space Network have been discussed. Examples of gravity compensation of the 70-m antenna during 32-GHz operation has been used to illustrate these advantages. In addition, an adaptive 


10 algorithm for optimal combining of focal-plane array signals in a noisy environment, including interference, has been described and evaluated via simulation. Finally mitigation of antenna pointing errors via focal-plane array processing is illustrated, providing additional benefits over the use of a single receiving horn A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES    V Vi l n rot t e r and Fort Dem onst r at i on and Eval uat i on of the Ka-Band Array Feed Compensation System on the 70-Meter Antenna at DSS 14," TMO PR 42-139, JulySeptember 1999, pp. 1-17, November 15, 1999    V Khai ki n, E. M a jorova, Yu. Pari jski j, M  Parnes, R   Shifman, V. Dobrov, V. Volkov, and S. Uman, “7x8 Element MMIC Array at 26-30 GHz for Radio Astronomy Applications,” in Proceedings of International Conference Perspective on Radio Astronomy: "Technologies for Large Antenna Arrays", The Netherlands, April 1999, pp.171182V  3 er, P. W In itial Stu d i es o f Array Feed s fo r th e 70-Meter Antenna at 32 GHz," TDA PR 42-104, OctoberDecember 1990, pp. 50-67, February 15, 1991  4 b r iale, W  A., M. J. Britcliffe, an d M. Bren n e r Gravity Deformation Measurements of NASA's Deep Space Network 70-Meter Reflector Antennas," IPN PR 42147, July-September 2001, pp. 1-15, November 15, 2001    L. Stutzm an and G.A Thiele  Antenna Theory and Design John Wiley and Sons Inc., New York, pp 210-218   V. Khai ki n, V. Dobrov, M  Parnes, V Vol kov A Golovkov, Yu. Rybakov, “Mu lti-channel array receiver modules for a radio telescope at 26-30 GHz,” in Proceedings of URSI/IEEE XXVII Convention on Radio Science, pp.176-178, Espoo, Finland, Oct.2002  7 ro tter, an d M. Srin iv asan Larg e Array Ch an n e l Capacity in the _Presence of Interference,” IPN PR 42-164 Jet Propulsion Laboratory, February 15, 2006  8 ro tter, V. A., Ro d e m i ch E. R., Dolinar, S. J., “Realtime combining of residual carrier array signals using ML weight estimates,” IEEE Tran sactions on Communications Volume 40, Issue 3, March 1992, pp. 604-615 B IOGRAPHY  Victor Vilnrotter  M'79, SM’02 received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering and communications theory from the University of Southern California in 1978.  He joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif., in 1979, where he is a Principal Engineer in the Communications Systems Research section. His research interests include el ectronic compensation of large antennas with focal-plane arrays, adaptive combining algorithms for large antenna arrays, optical communications through atmospheric turbulence, and the application of quantum communications to deep-space optical links. He has published extensively in conferences and refereed journals, and has received numerous NASA awards for technical innovations   Michael Britcliffe earned the Bachelors of Science degree in Applied Physics from California State University Northridge in 1988. He has worked at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1989 He is currently Technical Group Supervisor of the Antenna Microwave and Low Noise Amplifier group in the Ground Communications section   Daniel Hoppe received the BS and MS degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Wisconsin Madison in 1982 and 1983, and the Ph.D. from UCLA in 1994. In 1984 he joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena CA where he is currently a Principal Engineer. At JPL he has developed software for the solution of electromagnetic scattering problems, designed microwave components for the large antennas of the Deep Space Network, and antennas for spacecraft applications Recently he worked on diffraction modeling of large spacebased telescopes. Dr. Hoppe is a part time lecturer teaching courses in electromagnetics and antennas at UCLA 


 11 R EFERENCES     Reddy, M.K. and S.M. Reddy 223Detecting FET Stuck-Open Faults in CMOS Latc hes and Flip-Flops,\224 IEEE Design and Test of Computers Vol. 3 , No. 5 , pp. 17-26, October 1986   2 R Mad g e , M. Vilg is, a nd V. Bhide, "Achieving Ultra High Quality and Reliability in Deep Sub-Micron Technologies using Metal Layer Configurable Platform ASICs", MAPLD 2005    Kewal Sal u ja, \223Di g i t a l Sy st em Fundam e nt al s, Lect ure 11\224, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin Madison    Yu W e i  Papos ng  M oo Ki t Lee Peng W e ng Ng C h i n  Hu Ong, \223IDDQ Test Challenges in Nanotechnologies: A Manufacturing Test Strategy\224, Asian Test Symposium 2007. ATS apos;07. 16 th Volume , Issue , 8-11 Oct. 2007 Page\(s\211 \226 211  NASA GSFC Advi sory NA-GSFC 2004-06   Dan El ft m a nn, Sol o m on W o l d ay and M i nal  Sawant  New Burn In \(BI\ethodology for Testing of Blank and Programmed Actel 0.15 \265m RTAX-S FPGAs MAPLD 2005   M i nal Sawant Dan El ft m a nn,  W e rner van den Abeel an John McCollum, Solomon Wolday and Jonathan Alexander 223Post Programming Burn-in of Actel O.25um FPGA\222s\224 MAPLD 2002  B IOGRAPHY   John worked 2 years at Faichild R&D on bipolar switching performance specifically platinum dopedlife time control and the development of Ion Implantation.  He worked 15 years at Intel developing Intel's first bipolar PROM, Ion Implantation, the world's first 16K DRAM, as well as 64K and 256K DRAMs.  Mr. McCollum developed Intel's first dual layer metal CMOS technology for the 386 microprocessor.  He co-founded Actel and worked the last 20 years on process, antifuse and flash cell development and FPGA Architecture at Actel.  He holds over 50 patents   covering Process Technology, Antifuse and NVM technology, FPGA Architecture, Analog Processing and Radiation Hardening.  He has presented numerous papers at IEDM, MAPLD, CSME, SPWG, and the FPGA Symposium. He is currently a Fellow in the Technology Development Department 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


