 1 Evolution of the Lunar Network Jonathan Gal-Edd NASA/Goddard Space Fli ght Center/ Code 581 Greenbelt, MD 20771 301-286-2378 Jonathan.S.Gal-Edd@nasa.gov Curtis C. Fatig SAIC /NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center/ Code 443 Greenbelt, MD 20771 301-286-0693 curtis.fatig@gsfc.nasa.gov Ron Miller NASA/Goddard Space Fli ght Center/Code 458 Greenbelt, MD 20771 301-286-6331 Ron.a.miller@nasa.gov    Abstract NASA is planning to upgrade its network infrastructure to support missions for the 21 
st century.  The first step is to increase the data rate provided to science missions to at least the 100 Mbps range.  This is under way using Ka-band 26 GHz, erecting an 18-meter antenna for the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, and the planned upgrade of the Deep Space Network \(DSN\eter network to support the James Webb Space Telescope \(JWST 12  The next step is the support of manned missions to the Moon and beyond.  Establishing an outpost with several activities such as rovers, colonization, and observatories, is better achieved by using a network configuration rather than the current method of point-to-point.  Another challenge associated with the Moon is communication coverage with 
the Earth.  The Moon’s South Pole, targeted for human habitat and exploration, is obscured from Earth view for half of the 28-day lunar cycle and requires the use of lunar relay satellites to provide coverage for the times when there is no direct view of the Earth The future NASA and Constellation network architecture is described in the Space Communications Architecture Working Group \(SCAWG Communications and Navigation \(SCAN\Constellation Integration Project \(SCIP\s responsible for coordinating Constellation requirements and has assigned the responsibility for implementing these requirements to the existing NASA communication providers: DSN, Space Network \(SN\work \(GN\he NASA 
Integrated Services Network \(NISN The SCAWG Report provides a future architecture but does not provide implementation details.  The architecture calls for a Netcentric system, using hundreds of 12-meter antennas, a ground antenna array, and a relay network 1  1 1-4244-1488-1/08/$25 00 ©2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1020, Version 5 Updated November 13, 2007 around the Moon.  The report did not use cost as a variable in determining the feasibility of this approach.  As part of the SCIP Mission Concept Review and the second iteration of the Lunar Architecture Team \(LAT\is on cost as well as communication c 
overage using operational scenarios.  This approach ma ximizes use of existing assets and adds capability in small increments This paper addresses architect ure decisions such as the Radio Frequency \(RF\gnal and network \(Netcentric decisions that need to be made and the difficulty of implementing them into th e existing Space Network and DSN.  It discusses the evolution of the lunar system and describes its components: TDRSS, Earth-based ground stations, Lunar Relay, and surface systems T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION  1 
 2  CEV TO ISS-TDRSS  3  3  E ARTH B ASED G ROUND S TATIONS  4  4  S URFACE N ETWORK   L UNAR C OMMUNICATION T OWER LCT  5 
 5  S URFACE N ETWORK   M OBILE U SERS  6  6  L UNAR R ELAY S ATELLITES  8  7  N ETWORK D ISCUSSION  10  8  S UMMARY 
 11 R EFERENCES  12  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  11 B IOGRAPHIES  12 1  I NTRODUCTION  To support the Lunar mission, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration \(NASA is addressing its aging communication architecture.  NASA’s network communication is provided by the SN, DSN and GN.  Missions select their provider based primarily on the distance from Earth 


 2 Lagrange points seem to be the dividing point between Deep Space and Near-Earth missions The Exploration program will be initially implemented on the Moon and then on Mars.  To implement these missions NASA networks are required to provide a seamless and integrated view to the users This is a major change from the current situation where each network provider has different interfaces, navigation approaches, and services For example, the SN provides bent pipe” bit service that does not process users’ data, whereas the DSN provides clean packet” services where each packet is examined and processed to remove errors.  The networks use a different navigation scheme; the SN uses a pseudo noise \(PN and DSN uses Tone ranging The Constellation program defi nes its interface requirement on the Internet Protocol \(IP\er.  A summary of IP interface is described below a nd depicted in Figure 1   IP provides interoperability across the entire network both Constellation elements and infrastructure are appropriate for lunar networking   Large number of heterogeneous assets in terms of communications capability and mobility   Dynamic network topology and traffic loading opportunistic generation of a mixture of real-time and delay tolerant data   Automation of data routing and prioritization enables seamless functioning of the network through different mission phases: International short stay\and Lunar outpost   Above the IP layer, the transport, framework, and application should largely remain the same.  The higher layers should be independent of the physical, operating environments Above the IP layer, the protocol stack will remain homogeneous across most lunar network elements              Figure 1 – IP Integration The Constellation C3I \(Command, Control Communications, and Information\fication specifies the use of the Space Network navigation signal, based on Pseudo Noise, in support of the Crew Exploration Vehicle CEV ively SN.  This effectively will be the Navigation \(NAV\used throughout the lunar program In order to provide support for the lunar missions, the following architecture elem ents were identified   Tracking and Data Relay  Satellite System \(TDRSS\r ISS and Low-Earth Orbit \(LEO   Earth-based ground stations at existing NASA sites   Two Lunar Relay Satellites   Lunar surface network based on industry 802.xx and a Lunar Communication  Tower \(LCT Figure 2 depicts the lunar system elements and components The paper also describes the evolution of the architecture for each of the lunar communica tion elements with the goal of providing a complete end-to-end integrated system The topics include   IP Networking   Use of the same radio frequencies and protocols providing forward compatibility to the future Orion vehicle   Surface network 802.xx   S-band vs. Ka-band for mobility users   Coverage and availability requirements   Requires use of Q-band \(37/40 Ka-band\o new spectrum restrictions on Ku-band  


 3             Figure 2 – Lunar Communication and Navigation Architecture  2  CEV TO ISS-TDRSS The first phase of Exploration focuses on building a new Crew Launch Vehicle \(CLV\called Ares and Crew Exploration Vehicle \(CEV\called Orion to replace the Space Shuttle.  Orion’s first mission will be to the ISS and it will communicate using the existing TDRSS \(an artist’s concept of a Tracking and Data Relay Satellite \(TDRS\is shown in Figure 3\SS provides excellent coverage of low-Earth orbiti ng spacecraft and is currently used by the Shuttle and ISS.  TDRSS supports S-band in Multiple Access \(MA\mode, S-band in Single Access \(SA mode, Ku-band, and Ka-band \(23 to 26 Giga-Hertz   TDRSS uses the Ku-band for trunk line transmissions to the White Sands and Guam tracking stations.  For ranging TDRSS uses a PN spread spect rum signal.  The TDRSS PN signal used for tracking is different than the tracking system used by the DSN and GN, which use a tone-based tracking system. The TDRSS communication signal established by CEV at this phase will be that used by CEV throughout the Exploration Program.  For lunar missions, TDRSS will support the building of the Lunar Stack, composed of the CEV and Lunar Surface Access Module \(LSAM\in low earth orbit \(LEO To support the ISS phase of the Exploration Program TDRSS is planning two future satellites, “K” and “L”, to be in place in time to support these missions  Figure 3 – TDRS The IP support is a new paradigm for TDRSS as it requires a shift from bit to packet services. Currently TDRSS is a bent pipe”, which provides a physical extension of the network without reformatting the user data.  This is also referred to as “Bit services In the packet service the network provider processes packets of data at a time Packet services require the network provider to de-modulate users’ data based on coding sc heme, modulation, and packet structure.  Higher level data framing is still under discussion as to the need and type of framing The Constellation C3I specification defines a 10e-8 Bit Error Rate \(BER\of Low Density Parity Check Code \(LDPC block/packet \(frame The implementation of LDPC will require modifications to see Figure 4  Mission Control Mission Control TDRSS/LRS Network TDRSS//LRSS Mission Ops Center LMOC Monitor and Coordination Scheduling LRS2 Terminals \(LGT DTE/CEV LRS2 CEV LSAM LCT Habitat ROVER DTE/CEV LCT Q-band 100/250 Mbps Ka 23/26 25/100 Mbps S-band 72/192 Ka 23/26 25/150 Mbps S-band 72/192 CEV TDRSS Key Tan: LRS, TDRSS DTE Green: LRS Trunk RED LCT-SURFACE Blue TDRSS Trunk Ku NAV EVA 802.xx NAV  CEV-ISS 


 4 UDP Legacy Users & 4880BB To MDM TCP Users TO PTP POP Local Interface  Figure 4  TDRSS SGLT   The most cost-effective choice is to use the existing DSN and White Sands Complex \(WSC\tes.  The DSN has already begun upgrading existing 34-meter Beam Wave Guide \(BWG\ennas with 26-Ghz Ka-band.  In addition the White Sands facility is currently constructing an 18meter antenna for the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter \(LRO called WS-1.  To support lunar missions, DSN-34 and WS1 will need to be upgraded w ith S-band TDRSS-compatible signals and IP.  Two additional 18-meter antennas at the DSN sites at Canberra, Australia and Madrid, Spain will be built if needed to offload the 34-meter BWGs The cost and implementation scheduled for TDRSS SGLT are under study to be completed by November 2007 to define the implementation approach to support the Constellation C3I specification 3  E ARTH B ASED G ROUND S TATIONS  The second element supporting the Lunar Mission is Earthbased ground stations that support the CEV stack once it leaves GEO, beyond the coverage of TDRSS satellites CEV will use the same S-band and Ka-band radio used for the ISS to communicate to the ground stations The proposed approach has two issues   Ka-band performance is affect ed by rain attenuation Ka requires more power \(dB\pared to S, X and Ku bands to provide the same reliability.  The LAT team accepted the above issues.  The Ka performance will be mitigated by using the 34-meter antenna, rather than 18-meter, to close the link   DSN/White Sands sites provide 98% coverage of the Moon, as shown in Figure 5.  The red  triangle near Africa is the gap in coverage Once the DSN and WS-1 become “lunar compatible”, all three networks – SN, GN and DSN – will provide a similar interface 


 5  4 stations located at WSC, Goldstone, Madrid, and Canber ra provide 98.5% coverage of the center of the Moon above 10 degrees elevation \(or local terrain whichever is higher\ Multistation coverage available 43.9% of the time averaged over calendar 2024 WS1, Goldstone, Madrid, Canberra Lunar Coverage Goldstone WS1 Madrid Canberra 0 4 2 1 3 Stations in View 0 4 2 1 3 Stations in View 0 4 2 1 3 0 4 2 1 3 Stations in View   Figure 5 – DSN/White Sands Coverage  4  S URFACE N ETWORK   L UNAR C OMMUNICATION T OWER LCT The final phase of lunar exploration is the manned outpost on the lunar surface.  Several different analysis studies concluded that the lunar outpost should be supported with a combination of relay satellites and lunar surface communication assets.  The Lunar Communication Tower LCT\e users within a proximity of 6 kilometers Beyond 6 kilometers, the Lunar Relay Satellite \(LRS provides coverage, as depicted in Figure 8 The surface network will be provided by using IP applications over a commercial 802.16 network.  The LCT serves as a network hub and will be attached by fiber optics to the Habitat network \(Hab\T provides wireless services over 802.11 to users such as Rovers and ExtraVehicular Activity \(EVA\ety of internal networks and creates 100 megabits per second Mbps\ch are sent via LCT primarily to Earth via the LRS.  The internal Hab network is based mainly on 802.11 see Figure 6\ure study is required to consolidate the Hab 802.11 with the surface 802.16 network and reduce the number of interfaces The proposed LCT has a mass of over 400 kg and uses 400 watts.  Much of the power demand is attributed to supporting a wireless network hub of 80 Mbps.  We expect a major push back on the LCT power and mass requirements 


 6  Figure 6 – Hab Network Data Flow  5  S URFACE N ETWORK   M OBILE U SERS  The roving users, including the Rovers and astronauts, have more challenging navigation and communication demands than stationary users, who are connected to the Hab and LCT network.  Once beyond a 6-km range from the LCT roving users depend on their own radios and antennas to communicate with the Relay Satellite.  In addition to the surface-to-surface network, mobile users require in-situ  voice and navigation capabilities \(see Figure 7\.  Lunar users will not have the benefit of the Earth’s Global Positioning System \(GPS\e LRS will provide in-situ  navigation and communication services to roving elements Navigation will be provided using TDRSS format PN code over S-band.  The Relay satellite will produce a two-way signal to calculate the roving element’s location and transmit it to the Rover.  The Rovers will use Ka-band to transmit video and voice to a LRS for forwarding to the Hab and Earth.  The Rovers’ data rate will be approximately 10 Mbps Providing communications to Rovers will be challenging The Rovers produce pictures and data at about 10 Mbps which typically requires Ka band.  The Ka-band beam is about 10 times narrower than S-band and requires more accurate pointing.  \(Figure 8 shows LRS coverage between S-band and Ka-band\S S-band beam covers 250 km while Ka covers about 30 km   LRS Use r  IMU Landmark Tracking LRS LN 1 & 2-Way S-Band Doppler  range LN 1-Way S-Band Doppler  range 


 7 Figure 7 In-Situ Navigation using Relay 


 8              Figure 8 – Relay S/Ka Coverage  The team designing the roving elements has expressed concern over using a gimbaled antenna due to lunar dust and would prefer an omni-type approach.  A future study will determine if Rovers can use S-band at rates higher than 150 Kbps \(3 Mbps\ adding S-band Frequency Division Multiple Access \(FDMA The other challenge is supporting emergency EVA.  For nominal operations, EVA will use the Rover as a gateway for emergency EVA, direct communication with the relay is required.  The EVA suit has limited RF power \(less than 1 watt\ and an omni antenna, resulting in a communication link to the relay limited to 2.4 Kbps, which is not enough to provide Voice Over IP \(VOIP\ultiple users sharing the same receiver the S-band system uses the TDRSS design based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA\ CDMA works well when users have similar transmit power \(for example cell phone users have similar devices with same power\ The EVA transmit power is significantly lower than the rover and may get overwhelmed by RF noise created by rovers stronger signal \(aka noise floor level\itting simultane ously to same receiver The EVA group has also expressed a need for HighFrequency \(HF\radio which may remove the need for contacting the Rover via S-band  6  L UNAR R ELAY S ATELLITES  The LAT recognized the need for relay satellites and has manifested two relays in support of manned outposts \(LRS2 and LRS-3\.  The relay satellites provide in-situ  navigation to orbiting and roving assets.  The Relays also provide in-situ communication to roving assets back to the Hab zone, eliminating a 3-second propagation delay associated with the time to send a signal to Earth The Relays will also play a major role in supporting an outpost that will be located at the Lunar South Pole.  The South Pole is blocked from Earth view for 14 days out of the 28-day cycle.  The orbit of the Relay Satellite, optimized for South Pole coverage [2}, is shown in Figure 9   S \(Backup 40/37 Ka HABITAT R1 LSAM LSAM 1 S  23/26Ka S band  LCT LCT Service Area 6 km radius High Data Rate Service Area Ka-Band, 30 km radius around SP Low Data Rate Service Area S-Band, 250 km radius around SP  Users with LOS to LCT communicate through LCT  Traffic may be routed to other LOS users in service area or LRS  Users without LOS to LCT automatically route traffic through LRS  Use back-up S-band link with max data rate of 150 kbps  Relay high rate Ka-band Li nk 3 simultaneous links  2 links for Hab & LCT; 1 link for high rate rover or science  Relay low rate S-band link 5 simultaneous links  5 links available for NAV, blocked users in LCT service area, or users beyond LCT Service Area LRS  Routes incoming data to Earth or to Lunar Surface  Distributes commands from earth to lunar surface Rover transmitting high rate data to Earth or habitat Rover transmitting low rate data to Earth or habitat No LOS to LCT 802.16 R2 R3 Frequency Plan S \(Backup 40/37 Ka HABITAT R1 LSAM LSAM 1 S  23/26Ka S band  LCT LCT Service Area 6 km radius High Data Rate Service Area Ka-Band, 30 km radius around SP Low Data Rate Service Area S-Band, 250 km radius around SP  Users with LOS to LCT communicate through LCT  Traffic may be routed to other LOS users in service area or LRS  Users without LOS to LCT automatically route traffic through LRS  Use back-up S-band link with max data rate of 150 kbps  Relay high rate Ka-band Li nk 3 simultaneous links  2 links for Hab & LCT; 1 link for high rate rover or science  Relay low rate S-band link 5 simultaneous links  5 links available for NAV, blocked users in LCT service area, or users beyond LCT Service Area LRS  Routes incoming data to Earth or to Lunar Surface  Distributes commands from earth to lunar surface Rover transmitting high rate data to Earth or habitat Rover transmitting low rate data to Earth or habitat No LOS to LCT 802.16 R2 R3 Frequency Plan 40/37 Ka HABITAT R1 R1 LSAM LSAM 1 S  23/26Ka S band  LCT LCT LCT Service Area 6 km radius High Data Rate Service Area Ka-Band, 30 km radius around SP Low Data Rate Service Area S-Band, 250 km radius around SP  Users with LOS to LCT communicate through LCT  Traffic may be routed to other LOS users in service area or LRS  Users without LOS to LCT automatically route traffic through LRS  Use back-up S-band link with max data rate of 150 kbps  Relay high rate Ka-band Li nk 3 simultaneous links  2 links for Hab & LCT; 1 link for high rate rover or science  Relay low rate S-band link 5 simultaneous links  5 links available for NAV, blocked users in LCT service area, or users beyond LCT Service Area LRS  Routes incoming data to Earth or to Lunar Surface  Distributes commands from earth to lunar surface Rover transmitting high rate data to Earth or habitat Rover transmitting low rate data to Earth or habitat No LOS to LCT 802.16 R2 R3 Frequency Plan 


 9 yp Relay Constellation  SMA= 6124.4 km Eccentricity=0.59999 Inclination=57.7 Perilune Argument=90 12-Hour Orbits 180 Phased  Figure 9 – Relay Orbit Relay Satellites use dedicated ground antennas and spectra to prevent interference from a nother user’s spectrum.  The spectrum assigned by the SCAWG to the lunar relay does not allow the use of TDRSS Ku-band and calls for using Ka-band \(40 / 37 GHz\gn uses four 18meter, dedicated LRS ground stations at DSN and White Sands; three for user support and one for housekeeping The LAT design provides a minimal configuration for operations and does not addre ss rain diversity and backup between ground stations.  A possible future consideration is building an additional station in South Africa Hartebeesthoek\estern Australia \(Dongara The Relay Satellites are key to integrating constellation elements.  In order for relays to provide navigation capability to orbiting elements, they need to be compatible with the CEV network stack.  For in-situ communications they connect the Hab, Rovers, a nd the Earth.  They are also the primary connection between the LCT and Earth.  To provide all these capabilities, the Relay provides routing capabilities described below and shown in Figure 10     Figure 10 – Relay Router   LRS receives IP packets from   Earth: LRS Mission Operations Center \(MOC inter-leaves user and LRS Telemetry and Command \(T&C\ and forwards to Relay using Q-band 40 Ghz   Surface: data from LCT and Rovers   CEV   LRS demodulates IP stream   Reads IP header and determines network path   Keep on LRS \(C&T   Forward to CEV   Forward to surface via LCT or Rover   Forward to Earth   Establishes physical connection \(Q-band, Ka , Sband\o appropriate node The LRS router is required to process at a rate of 250 Mbps.  This rate is considered rather high for space applications and there is some concern about the amount of software needed Three configurations of relays were studied   Robotics S-band only   Human support – single  antenna \(LAT baseline   Lunar Communication and Navigation \(LCNS user antenna with cross links between relays 


 10 Future work is required to address the following LRS items   Need for a second antenna fo r orbiting user navigation and supporting a second Ka zone for roving users beyond 30 km from the Hab   Additional S-band FDMA receiver for Rovers   Reduce router rate from 250 Mbps   Trade to increase size of LR S antenna to reduce surface user burden   Consideration of routing and handovers between LRS satellites and between ground st ations are not discussed at this time and will be part of a detailed relay architecture 7  N ETWORK D ISCUSSION  The concept of using IP as an integration layer is the current standard of systems used on terrestrial networks.  VOIP Hyper Text Markup Language \(HTML\ensible Markup XML\and MPEG are some of the applications, languages and formats using IP.  Below the IP layer the system needs to address protocols and physical layers The physical backbone of terrestrial networks is based on fiber optics, which provides high data rates with low error rate \(10e-14\art routers.  This physical backbone is the basis for successful IP implementation.  Wireless terrestrial networks are limited in distance and connected to a gateway hub with fiber optics for accessing the Internet The Lunar network has several challenges which need to be addressed Space long-haul RF links perform the function of terrestrial networks fiber optics.  Longhaul space links provide 10e-5 BER and require coding schemes to reduce BER.  Coding increases the amount of data transmitted and requires computers to detect errors and correct them.  Convolutional Encoding, Reed Solomon, Low Density Parity Check LDPC\ are commonly used codes.  High data rates and fast computing capabilities require AC power which is a scarce resource in space applications.  \(As discussed earlier, the LCT requires 400 kg and 400 watts The Constellation C3I specification which defines the protocol stack \(described in Figure 11\o communicate with the CEV, specifies using LDPC.  The TDRS SGLTs currently support Convolutional Encoding and Reed Solomon.  Supporting LDPC will require changing out existing TDRS Integrated Receivers \(IR bits”.  The ability to change out over ninety receivers in time to support the first CEV mission is questionable To communicate to the LRS, the LCT or Rovers will be used as gateways to route the IP data using the C3I stack established during the ISS phase \(see Figure 11\ The LAT design has one central LCT and one or two hubs on Rovers The above approach requires a ssets at additional locations beyond the Habitat zone to deploy their own gateway Another item to be considered is the number of available LRS links.  The LRS has a limited number of channels available.  In order for the Lunar architecture to be independent from predetermined Earth scheduling, the LRS requires a mechanism which allows demand access.  A Demand Asigned Multiple Access \(DAMA\over Sband is being considered The lunar surface has some a dvantages that NASA should consider.  The lunar surface has fewer sources of interference than Earth; i.e., no buildings, power lines weather, or other radio sources.  A more detailed future analysis of lunar surface should be performed and the performance of 802.16 to Lunar surface adjusted accordingly based on LRO re sults provided in 2009 Another advantage around the Moon is less spectrum restriction.  Being the only us ers, the Surface-to-Relay can use the assigned spectrum in a more liberal fashion than users on Earth.  For example, S-band users can be allocated bands wider than 5 Megahert z \(MHz\or use more efficient modulation schemes \( 8 PSK instead of QPSK\ to around 10 Mbps over S-band NASA is not the only agency trying to move to an IP in space Netcentric architecture.  The Department of Defense DoD\obile ground troops with voice, data, and images over IP.  For example the DoD Transformational Communications Satellite TSAT\roject will address some of these issues early enough so they can be incorporated in the lunar design  


 11                Figure 11 – Networks Stacks  8  S UMMARY  The development of the Lunar Network Architecture to address the needs of Orbiters, Rovers, and EVA, requiring in-situ navigation, video, and voice capabilities, is an ongoing, complicated task The first step in building the ar chitecture begins today.  The TDRSS 25-year-old ground in frastructure will require extensive modifications to support IP and LDPC.  The introduction of IP will move TDRSS from “bit” service to frame service and put in place similar capabilities to those of the DSN The Earth-based ground stations provided by DSN will be compatible with the TDRSS system provided for the ISS and effectively provide NASA with a seamless network The Surface and Relay network will be based on industry standard IP router and 802.xx protocols.  More work is needed in making IP work in a lunar environment.  The success of IP on terrestrial networks is attributed, to a large degree, to a fiber optics-based backbone and sophisticated routers.  IP applications require high data rates with low errors, which is very challe nging in space.  The long-haul space links – Surface-to-Relay a nd Relay-to-Earth – will be required to provide enough RF power to close the link to support high data rates with over 100 percent overhead associated with coding.  Another challenge is the development of a space-qualified high-rate IP router The use of multiple 802 prot ocols, including 802.11 and 802.16, adds a burden on the architecture that needs to be addressed Rovers and astronauts’ requirements are challenging.  In addition to limited power, there is a need to develop the lunar equivalent of a GPS Although the network architecture required for lunar support is challenging, the LAT concluded that it is achievable and provided details of configurations and costs needed to build the system.  A combination of push-back on user requirements and levera ging DoD work will go a long way to making the architecture possible  Voice prime LCT LRS Ka-band 40/37 GHz 802.16 PHY 802.16 MAC 802.16 Stack IP Mission Control S/ Ka 23/26 GHz EVA DTE Rover Hab  S/Ka 23/26 GHz 2.4-9 GHz  IP Ethernet HDLC Ethernet stack Low Rate SN \(s-band TBD 802.11 PHY 802.11 MAC 802 .11 Stack IP C3I Ka Stack EVA IP LDPC AOS HDLC Ka-band IP LDPC AOS HDLC CEV   SN \(Ka-band S/Ka 23/26 GHz C3I stack EVA IP LDPC AOS HDLC SN \( S/Ka-band C3I stack DAMA Stack 802.16 Stack Voice prime LCT LRS Ka-band 40/37 GHz 802.16 PHY 802.16 MAC 802.16 Stack IP Mission Control Mission Control S/ Ka 23/26 GHz EVA DTE Rover Hab  S/Ka 23/26 GHz 2.4-9 GHz  IP Ethernet HDLC Ethernet stack Low Rate SN \(s-band TBD 802.11 PHY 802.11 MAC 802 .11 Stack IP C3I Ka Stack EVA IP LDPC AOS HDLC Ka-band IP LDPC AOS HDLC CEV   SN \(Ka-band S/Ka 23/26 GHz C3I stack EVA IP LDPC AOS HDLC SN \( S/Ka-band C3I stack DAMA Stack 802.16 Stack 


 12 R EFERENCES   The Space Com m unications Architecture W o rking Group \(SCAWG Communications and Navigation Architecture Recommendations for 2005-2030, October 2006   Lunar Archi t ect ure C o m m uni cat i on and Navi gat i on Study, August 2007   A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This paper uses the Lunar Architecture Communication and Navigation Study as reference m a t e ri al W e woul d l i k e to acknowledge the contribution of the following LAT team members: Jim Schier, Mark Fl anegan, Pat Fink, Biren Shah Joseph Warner, Lynn Anderson, Loren Clare, Avydas Vaisnys, and Todd Ely  B IOGRAPHIES  Jonathan Gal-Edd has been working at NASA since 1994 He is currently the TDRS Ground System Manager for TDRS-K,L.  He also serves as the Mission Engineering Manager for the James Webb Space Telescope \(JWST Jonathan was the Lunar Architecture Ground Segment Manager.  Prior to moving to Goddard Space Flight Center GSFC\ from Johnson Space Center \(JSC\, Jonathan served as the Software Development and Integration Lab \(SDIL Manager for the International Space Station \(ISS\ program He received NASA’s Space flight Awareness Award, a Master in Engineering Science from Loyola College \(2002 and a Master in Business Administration from Tel-Aviv University \(1982 Curtis Fatig is currently the System Engineer for the James Webb Space Telescope Ground System.  Previously, he was the Hubble Space Telescope \(HST\ Servicing Mission Test and Integration Manager.  His team of engineers set up remote Payload Operations Centers, tested the entire ground/space software and communication links used for each HST servicing mission and tested NASA institutional upgrades affecting HST.  He also supports long-term development of new mission ground systems.  He has received NASA’s Spaceflight Awareness Award, Public Service Medal, and many Achievement Awards for these efforts from GSFC, Kennedy Space Center \(KSC\, and JSC He received a B.S. from Salisbury State College in 1978 and a M.Ed. from Rollins College in 1982 Ron Miller is the SCAN Constellation Integration Project SCIP\ Program Manager under NASA’s Space Communication and Navigation Program.  Previous positions include: Lunar Communications and Navigation System Project Manger, TDRS Space Network Deputy Project Manager, Landsat Observatory Manager, Rapid Spacecraft Development Office \(R SDO\ Mission Integration Manager, TDRS 7/HIJ Launch Manager and Formulation Manager for several missions  


REFERENCES 1 Steinberg A 2000 Data Fusion System Engineering International Society of Information Fusion 2]Klein L 1999 Sensor and Data Fusion Concepts and Applications 2nd ed SPIE Optical Engineering Press Bellingham WA 3]Gruber T 1993 A Translation Approach to Portable Ontologies Knowledge Acquisition 5\(2 199-220 4]Boury-Brisset A 2003 Ontology-based Approach for Information Fusion International Society of Information Fusion 5 Martins J and Pinto H 2004 Ontologies How can they be built Knowledge and Information Systems Springer-Verlag London 14 de Weck 0 and Simchi-Levi D 2006 HaughtonMars Project Expedition 2005 Interplanetary Supply Chain Management and Logistics Architectures MITINASA Exploration Systems Mission Directorate and Research  Technology Program NASA/TP-2006214196 15 Kobayashi K Munekata F and Watanabe K 1994 Accurate navigation via differential GPS and vehicle local sensors in Proc IEEE Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 9-16 16 Mirabadi A Mort N and Schmid F 1996 Application of sensor fusion to railway systems in Proc IEEE/SICE/RSJ Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 185-192 17 Luo R Chih-Chen Y and Su K 2002 Multi-sensor Fusion and Integration Approaches and Future Research Directions IEEE Sensors Journal Vol 2 No 2 pp 102119 6 Van Heist G Schreiber A and Wielinga B 1997 Using explicit ontologies in KBS development Int J Hum Computer Stud 46\(2/3 pp 183-292 7 Guarino N 1998 Formal ontology and information systems In Guarino N ed Formal ontology in information systems IOS Press Amsterdam pp.3-15 8 Wald L 1999 Some Terms of Reference in Data Fusion IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing Vol 37 No 3 9 Waltz E and Llinas J 1990 Multi sensor Data Fusion Artech House Norwood MIA 10 Bowman C 2004 The Dual Node Network DNN Data Fusion  Resource Management DF&RM Architecture AIAA Intelligent Systems Conference Chicago 11 Hall D and Llinas J 1997 An Introduction to Multisensor Data Fusion IEEE Proceedings Vol 85 No 1 12 Russell S and P Norvig 2003 Artificial Intelligence A Modern Approach 2nd ed Pearson Education Inc New Jersey 13 Lin G et al 2005 Transforming the military through sense and respond IBM Business Consulting Services White Paper IBM Global Services Somers NY BIOGRAPHY Atif Mirza is a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton He specializes in corporate strategy and operations advisory for clients in the Global Aerospace and Defense Practice Prior to joining Booz Allen Mr Mirza was a graduate student at MIT where he was a System Design and Management Fellow in the Engineering Systems Division He holds a joint SM degree in Engineering and Management from MIT/Sloan and a BEng with Honors in Mechanical Engineering from The University of Edinburgh Scotland 13 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


