987-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE Dual-Use System Architectu re for a Space Situational Awareness System in Japan Yasuo Otani Keio University Graduate School of System Design and Management 2-1-1 Hiyoshi Kohoku-ku Yokohama, Japan otani@a5.keio.jp Naohiko Kohtake Keio University Graduate School of System Design and Management 2-1-1 Hiyoshi Kohoku-ku Yokohama, Japan kohtake@sdm.keio.ac.jp Yoshiaki Ohkami Keio University Graduate School of System Design and Management 2-1-1 Hiyoshi Kohoku-ku Yokohama, Japan ohkami@sdm.keio.ac.jp   Abstract 
227The use of outer space plays a vital role in both defense and civil fields. Since the separation of space activities between civil and defense applications is extremely inefficient the Dual-Use concept has been considered fundamental for promoting the effective use of space. To the best of the authors\222 knowledge, most previous studies on Dual-Use focused on the technological aspects, and very few on a system engineering approach to Dual-Use. This left some important issues untouched such as the operational aspects of a system of systems, which need to be understood in a more generic context This paper presents the results of a conceptual study, system design and management analysis of Dual-Use system architecture. First, an outline of the Dual-Use concept will be 
described and a definition of Dual-Use given. The effectiveness of applying the Dual-Use system concept to Space Situational Awareness \(SSA\oth defense and civil users as a system of systems will then be discussed and investigated with a stakeholders analysis, context diagram and design structure matrix method. It has demonstrated that there is a need for a Dual-Use SSA Data Center which works as a binder between defense and civil systems as well as a data policy for constructing a Dual-Use SSA system T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  C ONCEPT OF 
D UAL U SE S YSTEM 2  3  S TAKEHOLDERS A NALYSIS 3  4  C ONTEXT D IAGRAM AND E NTITY R EQUIREMENTS 4  5  S IMULATION BY D ATA C ATEGORIZING 5  6  D ESIGN S TRUCTURE M ATRIX DSM FOR A D UAL U SE M 
ODEL 6  7  S UMMARY AND F UTURE W ORK 7  A CKNOWLEDGMENT 7  R EFERENCES 7   1  I NTRODUCTION  Background of Defense Space Use in Japan Worldwide the use of space for national security purposes has evolved in recent times. The use of satellites covers many diverse fields, such as command and control, reconnaissance meteorological observation and navigation, because space has the characteristics of simultaneity and is widespread. In recent years, space has become a link for strengthening the 
Command, Control, Communications, Computers Identification, Surveillance and Reconnaissance \(C4ISR function. The United States and European countries have actively developed defense using outer space. In contrast, the Japanese use of space for defense is different from other countries. It has been limited to general usage such as commercial communication, meteorological and global positioning satellites, and information gathering. In the political environment, the limitation on military use of space has continued for decades. Consequently, the civil field has driven Japanese space development and us In 2008 the Basic Space Law was enacted, and in the next year the Basic Plan for Space Policy was established by the strategic headquarters for space policy in Japan [2 h is law aims to work strongly in a comprehensive and systematic 
manner on the use of space in the area of national security while maintaining an exclusively defense-oriented policy in accordance with the principle of pacifism enshrined in the Constitution of Japan. It is expected to activate defense use especially in the field of military C4ISR. At the same time the future model for defense use has some challenges and should be organized for both defense and civil purposes as a totally optimized system because the construction of separate systems inevitably leads to partial optimization. To use the national budget and human resources more efficiently and effectively, it is necessary for space systems to shift to a totally optimized system with an overarching perspective Therefore, it is important for the Japanese use of space to develop a different type of utilization model from the defense oriented utilization model adopted by the US or European 
countries. This paper introduces the defense and civil \223DualUse\224 concept as an important tool for the total optimized use of space SSA for Debris Monitoring and C4ISR System Originally, the Space Situational Awareness \(SSA\ystem was developed as part of a ballistic missile defense system that was dedicated to military activity. The Ballistic Missile Defense \(BMD\ system is a system of systems that includes systems for radar, optical sensors, intercontinental ballistic missile detection, and command and control. Some of these spin-out technologies and systems have been applied to SSA and their activities have been to observe satellites or space debris, correct data and create a database. In Japan, the Japan 


 2 Aerospace Exploration Agency \(JAXA\ has mainly been concerned with SSA activities  T o dev elop an optim al SSA system in the future, it would be highly desirable to consider the integration of the defense system with the civil system In a 2007 paper, Shar et al. proposed a SSA system that characterized the interaction between international stakeholders by modeling the technical and social elements  T h eir s t u d y als o iden ti f i e d a SSA s y s t e m a s a s y s t e m  of  systems through the use of game-theoretical cooperation archetypes and system dynamics modeling. However, in past studies, there was little interest in constructing a SSA system that combined both defense and civil requirements or in the aspects that are appropriate for operating such a Dual-Use system. SSA activities have not been considered in a DualUse system from an operational viewpoint  2  C ONCEPT OF D UAL U SE S YSTEM  Key Aspects of a Dual-Use System The purpose of this paper is to develop a totally optimized Dual-Use SSA system based on system architecture. First, the concept of Dual-Use is defined in terms of the national and international SSA situation. The stakeholders are defined using a context diagram and the relationship between them is clarified. For the purpose of carrying out a system design with system engineering methods, the simplified Dual-Use SSA model is evaluated using the design structure matrix method. Finally, it is demonstrated that the SSA Data Center is the binder between defense and civil applications. The data policy as an entity requirement for a Dual-Use SSA system is also discussed In general, Dual-Use means that the device or the system has been designed for or is to be used by more than two interested parties. In this study, Dual-Use implies that the device or the system has been designed for or is to be used by defense and civil users To construct a Dual-Use system, it is necessary to harmonize both defense and civil requirements and demands. The most characteristic aspect of civil systems is the necessity to disclose the data belonging to a customer. In particular, it is vital to operate the commercial system economically, which sometimes implies that performance must be sacrificed for economy. In contrast, the characteristics of a defense system are high performance, high data accessibility, assured service availability, data security certification and the level of vulnerability in an emergency situation. These are usually considered more important than profits. The integration of these contradictory characteristics in a Dual-Use system is critical. In constructing a Dual-Use system, the key issue is assuring both users of its purposefulness Dual-Use System for Outer Space Conventional use of space for civil fields usually involves design as a partially optimized system. Conversely, Dual-Use systems consist of many defense and civil components, so to construct a totally optimized system, it is necessary to assess designs in terms of quality, cost and delivery \(QCD\f some of the civil application\222s objectives, functions and physical capabilities are the same as for defense, it is possible to reduce the costs by sharing or integrating their common functions. These cases typically initiate the total optimization for the defense and civil sectors. Further, it should be possible to construct the system in a shorter period because of the effective allocation of their combined but limited human resources However, the defense applications often involve higher specifications for their operational needs which are more performance- than price-oriented. There is also a requirement for strict control of information related to national security Therefore it is important to design and manage the Dual-Use space systems with military-specific considerations in terms of information leakage prevention. A data policy is considered to be an effe ctive means of information management. The details of such a data policy will be discussed later Dual-Use System for Space Situational Awareness The use of space involves various types of functions in both defense and civil fields. Table 1 shows the comparison of defense and civil use and relevant applications  Table 1 - Comparison of defense and civil uses  For example, the early warning satellite system for missile detection and tracking has in frared technology. This technology shares its usefulness with weather observation technology, but the satellite itself is used for defense purposes only. Thus the early warning system is not used as a DualUse system. Another example is a communication satellite system. This is often used by both defense and civil users The Japan Self Defense Force has leased one of the communication satellite transponders to be operated by a private company. The Global Positioning System \(GPS\was used only by the US military in the early stage of its operations. However, since the US government decided to open the GPS signal to the public, users are spread all over 


 3 the world. This case shows that the civil area would be able to use the military applications. In the Dual-Use SSA system however, each defense and civil area uses the other\222s applications ensuring interoperability between defense and civil The status of the present SSA system The experiment on the destruction of a ballistic missile by a Chinese satellite in January 2007 and the collision of the orbiting satellites of the United States and Russia in February 2009 caused a large amount of space debris. The volume of debris is expected to increase further from chain collisions of debris in the future. In these circumstances, it is particularly important to increase the operational or technological level of debris monitoring for the preservation of the space environment. This requires observation of the space objects to understand the population of the debris, and make efforts to limit its generation The main objective of SSA is to understand the location of objects such as space debris or satellites in orbit. SSA activities include detection, identification, tracking cataloging of debris and space assets, a database, analyzing collision prediction, risk avoidance reporting, and data sharing. Among these, obtaining data on orbital debris and satellites is of prime importance for providing information on collision avoidance or to protect space assets from antisatellite attack. To understand the debris population, Japan conducts observation of debris using space observation facilities that are currently retained by JAXA and other organizations. These data are required for both defense and civil purposes. The United States continues to observe debris and satellites in orbit, and has created a database of SSA information. The SSA data, called two line elements \(TLE have been delivered throughout the world via the internet More recently, the US government has conducted a trial service for satellite operators which identifies the risk of collisions. Information sharing worldwide and the architecture of SSA systems that are integrated or coordinated by many countries is an urgent issue for all countries concerned with space Defense SSA system in Japan As previously mentioned, Japan\222s defense space activity has been inadequate in the past, so we need to assess what can be done with present defense assets. In the context of acquiring an offensive capability as represented by the Chinese ASAT demonstration experiments, the concept of space control has become widespread in the defense world. To protect the satellite responsible for defense missions in the future, it is necessary not only to detect and identify debris and satellites but also to monitor the presence of hostile missiles and satellites. At present, the Japan Self Defense Forces have not defined any mission related to SSA, so they do not have dedicated applications for SSA. The Japan Air Self Defense Force \(JASDF\as the main mission of air defense and is equipped with the C4ISR system called the Japan Aerospace Defense Ground System \(JADGE\his system enables the central command and control of air defense information. One of the latest Japanese air defense radars is called the J/FPS-5 which is used for air and ballistic missile defense. Figure 1 shows the appearance of J/FPS-5 radar. The size is about 30 m \327 30 m \327 25 m \(Height \327 Width \327 Depth  Figure 1 - J/FPS-5 radar This radar facility operates in the L-band frequency range. A total of four J/FPS-5s are located in Japan. This radar had originally been developed to detect air threats, but has the added capability of detecting, identifying and tracking ballistic missiles that come from outer space. Thus, J/FPS-5 is useful as a Dual-Use SSA system. In constructing the SSA system, it is beneficial to share military and civil functions  3  S TAKEHOLDERS A NALYSIS  It is necessary to consider th e stakeholders involved in the Dual-Use SSA system. This section clarifies the scope for defense and civil users. Figure 2 shows the classification of the users in the Dual-Use system. Defense users consist of the defense authorities \(e.g. the Ministry of Defense and Japan Self Defense Forces \(JSDF\is management agencies and intelligence community. They have similar requirements for security certification or information classification. Civil users are subdivided into three different types, namely public academic and commercial users. Public users are represented by the Ministries, public agencies, including the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency \(JAXA\, and other institutions. Academic users imply the Ministry of Education Culture, Sports and Science \(MEXT\, and universities Commercial users imply private companies. The stakeholders of the Dual-Use system include all of these   Figure 2 - Classification of Users in the Dual-Use system 


 4  Table 2 is adapted from Shah\222s study. It provides an overview of Dual-Use SSA stakeholders and their relevant issues. The stakeholders in this table are organized according to the functions of the SSA system. Information required for service providers is based on the system. This table shows how accumulating and supplying the SSA information from each sensor are key issues. For this, it is necessary to have a stakeholder who has the responsibility for managing the database. Generally, the key criteria in building the system include monetary, information, Public Benefits and service or goods. As for the SSA system, obtaining the information itself would be the most important aspect. To obtain the information, radar and optical sensors, data analysis techniques and the services providing data are important elements. By considering these factors, a detailed interdependency model can be created using the context diagram as follows  Table 2 - Stakeholders of a Dual-Use SSA system   4  C ONTEXT D IAGRAM AND E NTITY R EQUIREMENTS  Data Center as the information binder An important consideration, when constructing a Dual-Use SSA system, is how the information should be shared and connected between the defense and civil users in the system A suitable solution is to establish a type of data management center, namely the Dual-Use SSA Data Center. The functions of this center include a database containing the SSA raw data analyzed debris and satellite orbits, collision avoidance data and even an advisory role on avoidance. The stakeholder handling these data functions would be located at the center of the Dual-Use SSA system. Figure 3 shows the context diagram of the relationship between defense and civil stakeholders. In this figure, the dashed lines show the \223not yet\224 existing elements, and the dotted lines show the classified information flows This figure shows how the Dual-Use SSA Data Center plays the binding role for defense and civil stakeholders. If the data covers only unclassified data, even the civil sector, such as private enterprises, can be established users in the Dual-Use SSA model. However if the Data Center needs to handle classified data or information with limited access within the government, the Data Center should be retained within the defense or at least the government\222s jurisdiction. It would be the considered approach to providing the service on the gathered information. Retaining the Data Center in this environment would be a significant issue. A detailed study for this type of service retention is not contained in this paper When private sectors have to handle classified data, an appropriate filter would be needed during the connection between the JADGE system and the Data Center. Providing and enforcing the information management rules are key aspects of the Dual-Use system Entity Requirements and Data Policy For a Dual-Use SSA system, the entity requirements are obviously divided between defense and civil requirements The defense requirements for a SSA system would include ensuring satellite and debris surveillance capability for responding to anti-satellite \(ASAT\ weapons, and the protection of space assets which belong to both the defense and civil areas. Conversely, the civil requirements for a SSA system would include service continuity for the service provider and receiving the service safely and securely for the service users To achieve these requirements, along with the data managed in the data center, the entity is required to inform the service provider of the analysis for predicting satellite collision avoidance. However it is possible for the Data Center itself to hold these requirements. As for other stakeholders, SSA related capabilities exist and previous studies have identified their requirements. For example, the Japanese SSA sensors located near 135\260 east longitude are suitable for contributing to the SSA data. It is desirable to share the SSA data between countries, and to obtain more accurate information of the debris orbits from the Japanese sensors There is a constraint on the Dual-Use SSA system when different mission requirements arise simultaneously from both the defense and civil users. For example, suppose that a private company needed detailed observations for avoiding a collision with their satellite that was predicted and had been provided with an avoidance warning. At the same time the international situation became tense and the dedicated radar system had to be focused on defense missions such as air defense or ballistic missile defense. This case illustrates a conflict for SSA system operation. In such a situation prioritization in advance about the operation of the function is required. Furthermore, it is also necessary to clarify the operational manner for the observation-request on the sensor This type of problem is treated as a data policy issue. Data 


 5 policy is usually complex because it affects the interests of all the organizations. For the Dual-Use SSA system, data policy and management are essential because it is possible data will be directly connected to national security. The data policy is one critical prerequisite for efficient Dual-Use system operation. According to Rathgeber\222s paper, data policy comprises the rules and procedures for handling and distributing information gained by sensors \(raw data\ or manipulated/refined by subsequent system stages \(processed data\ well as the mechanisms to control and enforce compliance with these rules and procedures e n s e or  intelligence satellites usually require the ability to deal with classified data. To ensure this requirement, both space assets and ground control/communication systems must be equipped with the classification system. This would also apply to the Dual-Use system. Accordingly, the data policy should contain several functions such as prioritization and data classification  5  S IMULATION BY D ATA C ATEGORIZING  The SSA data, which are obtained from optical or radar sensors, include data to be protected for the national security reasons. Providing a hierarchy acco rding to the security levels and defining the management of the users simplifies the data treatment. To simulate the feasibility of the system, it is necessary to verify the data flow in each level of hierarchy in the SSA system context diagram. First, three levels of the hierarchy are defined for data treatment. These are described as Class 1: Non-classified data that can be treated by anybody Class 2: Classified data such as trade secrets that can be treated by any organizations with the government\222s or specified companies\222 authentication Class 3: Classified data that can be treated only by the organizations concerned with national security The input of raw SSA data can come from the civil and defense sensors, and the US space fence through JSpOC However, it is difficult for the sensor itself to manage the data and to distinguish between non-classified raw data and classified data. The management and discrimination of the mixed data would be carried out by the data receiving facility For example, the data from a civil sensor could be classified by the data integrators or data center, and the data obtained from defense applications by the JADGE system operators. It is efficient for all classified and unclassified data acquired outside Japan to be obtained through one Japanese point of contact. In this case, it is desirable for the data center or JADGE system to have these functions. Therefore for defense users, all the defense stakeholders are able to handle Class 3 data. For civil users, the data integrators and data center are able to handle this type of data. The data center would gather and analyze the SSA raw data. After providing the SSA information service, only Class1 and 2 data would be needed for the civil services. Therefore clarifying this segment is needed to avoid confusion in data distribution or data sharing    Figure 3 - Context Diagram of a Dual-Use SSA System 


 6 6  D ESIGN S TRUCTURE M ATRIX DSM FOR A D UAL U SE M ODEL  Design Structure Matrix for a Simple Model When constructing a Dual-Use system it is important to establish the interdependency between the defense and civil elements. Figure 4 shows a simple dependency model between defense and civil use. Defense use and civil use maintain a mutually dependent relationship by using complementary human and physical resources for achieving their objectives. This relationship is defined as an interdependent type. A design structure matrix chart is one of the ways of simplifying complex engineering tasks to make them more efficient. According to Epping h e  DSM is a network modeling tool used to represent the elements comprising a system and their interactions, thereby highlighting the system\222s architecture or designed structure DSM is particularly well suitable to applications in the development of complex engineering systems and has to date primarily been used in the area of engineering management   Figure 4 - Dependency of the Elements  Table 3 shows the interdependency using a DSM, in which each off-diagonal element that is non-zero can cause a risk of rework compared with the case for constructing the system separately  Table 3 - Design Structure Matrix \(Mutually Independent Model   Design Structure Matrix for Independent Model and DualUse Model Table 4 shows that the DSM is block diagonal and that the civil use \(upper-left block\nd the defense use \(lower-right block\ are separated each other       Table 4 - Design Structure Matrix for Independent Model  Table 5 shows, on the other hand, that the DSM includes offdiagonal block indicating mutual interactions. Viewing from the defense side, the upper right off-diagonal block means profits in the sense that civil organizations provide information to the defense side. However, the lower-left offdiagonal block indicates a sort of risks in that information may be used by unidentifiable organizations through the civil sectors In the Table 4 and 5, the abbreviations stand for as follows  RLP  Rocket Launch Providers DASP Debris Avoidance Service Providers SOs Satellite Operators JAXA Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency \(Data Integration BSGC Bisei Space Guard Center \(Optical Telescope System KSGC Kamisaibara Space Guard Center \(Radar System SSUs  Satellite Service Users SSPs  Satellite Service Providers DUSD Dual-Use SSA Data Center JADGE Japan Aerospace Defense Ground System JFPS5 J/FPS-5 radar system USAF US Air Force ANs Allied Nations  All of these abbreviations are expressed by the context diagram of a Dual-Use SSA system in Figure 3, and their activities are also provided in this figure   


 7  Table 5 - Design Structure Ma trix for a Dual-Use Model    Profits and Risks of Dual-Use SSA System architecture Compared with single system architecture, the benefits and risks of Dual-Use SSA system architecture from the defense viewpoint are described below Benefits  1  Cost \226 it is possible to reduce the cost in accordance with system development and operation. Moreover there is less investment in the defense area through the use of civil human resources 2  Shortening of the development period \226 by using the existing facilities and/or equipment, the development period will be shortened 3  Activation of the aerospace industry and enhancing the potential for space use 4  Rapid and easy exchange of SSA information with other countries because of the clarification of the counterpart facilities and classification of information protection Risks  1  Classified data exposure \226 there could be data loss or cyber-attacks when providing data externally using systems that handle the confidential data 2  Limiting a purpose to achieve other purposes \226 the purpose could possibly be inhibited or there could be a conflict of interest  7  S UMMARY AND F UTURE W ORK  This paper proposes a SSA system which introduces the concept of Dual-Use space utilization. The results show that sharing information is an important factor in a Dual-Use SSA system. It is suggested that there is a need for establishing the data center as a binder between defense and civil users. It is necessary to clarify the data policy to achieve their respective objectives and the interdependent relationship between the defense and civil users. It is also shown that classifying the data in a hierarchical manner would be beneficial In the future, since a SSA system will be needed to share information between many allied countries, it will be necessary to construct further complex systems for data sharing between multiple nations. In which case it will be beneficial to study using the parametric and graphical representation method together with the system modeling language \(SysML\ which is a useful system design method  A CKNOWLEDGMENT  A part of this research was carried out with the support of the MEXT Global COE Program \223Center for Education and Research of Symbiotic, Safe and Secure System Design\224  R EFERENCES   S A o k i  223Mil itar y U s e o f O u t er Space  L a w a n d P o lic y  i n  Japan,\224 21st International Symposium on Space and Technology and Science ISTS 2004-r-32, June 2004  St rat e g i c H eadqu ar t e rs  f o r S p a ce Pol i c y  2009, June 2 Basic Plan for Space Policy Onlin v a i l a bl e   http://www8.cao.go.jp/space/pdf/basic_plan.pdf   Hi ros e  Y. T a ro m a ru  M. Ka m e y a m a S   A o ki a n d S   Isobe, \223Overview of JAXA Space Debris Surveillance Operations,\224 in Space Operations: Mission Management Technologies, and Current Applications AIAA, Inc Virginia, 2007, pp. 293-303 4  S h ar, M G. R i c h a r d s D A  B r o n ia to w s k i J  R   Laracy, P. N. Springmann and D. E. Hastings, \223System of Systems Architecture: The Case of Space Situational Awareness,\224 AIAA Space 2007 Conf Sep. 2007  R a thg e ber 223 K e y  As pect s of a E u ropean  Spac e Situational Awareness,\224 25th International Symposium on Space and Technology and Science ISTS 2008-r-3-04, June 2008   S  D  Eppi ng er a n d T  R   Bro w n i ng  Design Structure Matrix Methods and Applications MIT Press, Cambridge MA, 2012 


 8 Biographies  Colonel Yasuo Otani received a master\222s degree in Aerospace Engineering from the National Defense Academy in Japan. He has been a Japan Air Self Defense Force engineering officer for more than 20 years. He currently holds the position of Head, Aeronautics and Avionics Section Development Department, Air Staff Office \(ASO Ministry of Defense. Prior to the ASO, he was an instructor in the National Security Strategy Course in the Air Staff College. He has experience in formulating the Space Policy at the Secretariat of Strategic Headquarters for Space Policy, Cabinet Secretariat. He has worked on a variety of military aircraft development programs and projects, including the XF-2 fighter aircraft flight test program at Gifu AB, the Advanced Technical Demonstration Aircraft \(ATD-X\ research project in the Technical Research and Development Institute and Uninhabited Air Vehicle program. He is also currently in the doctoral course at Keio University Graduate School of System Design and Management. His interests include system design and management for space systems, system of systems analysis, space policy and Dual-Use strategy on military activities Dr. Naohiko Kohtake is an Associate Professor, Keio University. He was engaged in research and development on avionics systems for H-IIA rocket at Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, and ubiquitous computing systems at Keio University. He was also involved in research for on-board software at European Space Agency and user interface at Sony Computer Science Laboratories as a visiting researcher After working on software independent verification and validation for satellites and the international space station as an associated senior engineer at Digital Innovation Center in Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, he is in charge of space system engineering and intelligent system as a director of Smart Systems Laboratory, Keio University Dr. Yoshiaki Ohkami obtained Dr Engineering in Control Engineering from Tokyo Institute of Technology and worked for National Aerospace Laboratory as a research engineer on spacecraft attitude control and large space systems \(1968-1992 During this period, he worked as a visiting researcher at UCLA under NASA/MSFC Contract and Deputy Director for Space Station Program of Japan. He became a professor at Tokyo Institute of Technology \(1992-1999 and at Keio University \(1999-2005\ while serving as Research Inspector at JAXA Space Center. Now he serves as Executive Advisor after finishing the Dean of Graduate School of Systems Design and Management, Keio University. Major fields of his research include the Strategic Systems Engineering, Dynamics and Control of Mechanical Systems, and Field Robotics. He is a fellow of Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers and the INCOSE and life members of IEEE and Japan Society for Aeronautical and Space Sciences. He is awarded Academic Prizes from JSME, SICE, and others  


boards of several journals including IEEE Transactions on Service Computing and the Journal of Performance Evaluation   Zhen has given keynotes and distinguished lectures in various conferences and universities. He was an adjunct professor at University of Science and Technology of China and Beijing University of Post and Telecommunications While he was in France Zhen was  also an adjunct professor of the University of Paris VI \(University of Pierre & Marie Curie\and the University of Nice  Sophia Antipolis, France   His areas of expertise include mobile computing, mobile services, cloud computing, stream processing re al time analytics performance modeling stochastic optimization service oriented architecture and semantic Web      
lxxxi 


en-US Keynote VI I I  en-US GreenCom iThings CPSCom 2013   Towards Carrier Cloud   Dr. Tarik Taleb  Senior Researcher and 3GPP Standards Expert  NEC Europe Ltd, Heidelberg, Germany  Email tarik.taleb@nw.neclab.eu    Abstract   Mobile operators are in need of means to cope with the ever increasing mobile data traffic, introducing minimal additional capital expenditures on existing infrastructures, principally due to the modest Average Revenues per User ARPU Network virtualizat ion and cloud computing techniques along with the principles of the latter in terms of service elasticity on demand and pay per use could be important enablers for various mobile network enhancements and cost reduction This talk discusses the recent tr ends the mobile telecommunications market is experiencing showcasing some of the emerging consumer products and services that are facilitating such trends. The talk also discusses the challenges these trends are representing to mobile network operators. T he talk also demonstrates the possibility of extending cloud computing beyond data centers towards the mobile end user providing end to end mobile connectivity as a cloud service. The talk introduces a set of technologies and methods for the on demand pro vision of a decentralized and elastic mobile network as a cloud service over a distributed network of cloud computing data centers; federated cloud. The concept of Follow Me Cloud whereby not only data but also mobile services are intelligently following t heir respective users is also introduced. The novel business opportunities behind the envisioned carrier cloud architecture and service are also discussed, considering various multi stakeholder scenarios   Bio   Tarik Taleb is currently working as Senior Researcher and 3GPP Standards Expert at NEC Europe Ltd Heidelberg, Germany. Prior to his current position and till Mar. 2009, he worked as assistant professor at the Graduate School of Information Sciences, Tohoku University, Japan, in a lab fully funded by KDDI, the second largest network operator in Japan From Oct 2005 till Mar 2006 he was working as research fellow with the Intelligent Cosmos Research Institute Se ndai Japan He received his B E   degree in Information Engineering with distinction M.Sc and Ph.D degrees in Information Sciences from GSIS Tohoku Univ., in 2001, 2003, and 2005, respectively   Dr Taleb  s research interests lie in the field of architectural enhancements to mobile core networks particularly 3GPP  s mobile cloud net working mobile multimedia streaming congestion control protocols handoff and mobility management inter vehicular communications and social media networking Dr Taleb has been also directly engaged in the development and standardization of the Evolved  Packet System as a member of 3GPP  s System Architecture working group. Dr. Taleb is a board member of the  IEEE Communications Society Standardization Program Development Board  As an attempt to bridge the gap between academia and industry Dr Taleb has f ounded and has been the     Dr Taleb  is/was on the editorial board of the IEEE Wireless Communications Magazine IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, and a number of Wiley journals. He is serving as vice chair of the Wireless Communications Tech nical Committee, the largest in IEEE ComSoC He also served as Secretary and then as Vice Chair of the Satellite and Space Communications Technical Committee of IEEE ComSoc 2006  2010 He has been on the technical   
lxxxii 


program committee  of different IEEE c onferences including Globecom, ICC and WCNC and chaired some of their symposia   Dr Taleb is the recipient of the 2009 IEEE ComSoc Asia Pacific Best Young Researcher award Jun 2009 the 2008 TELECOM System Technology Award from the Telecommunicati ons Advancement Foundation Mar 2008 the 2007 Funai Foundation Science Promotion Award Apr 2007 the 2006 IEEE Computer Society Japan Chapter Young Author Award Dec 2006 the NiwaYasujirou Memorial Award Feb 2005 and the Young Researcher's Enc ouragement Award from the Japan chapter of the IEEE Vehicular Technology Society \(VTS\\(Oct. 2003\ Some of Dr. Taleb  s research work has been also awarded best paper awards at prestigious conferences. Dr. Taleb is a senior IEEE member      
lxxxiii 


en-US Keynote I X  en-US GreenCom iThings CPSCom 2013   How Densely Should the Data Base Stations  B e Deployed in Hyper Cellular Networks   Professor Zhisheng Niu  Tsinghua National Lab for Information Science and Technology  Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China  E mail niuzhs@tsinghua.edu.cn    Abstract   One of the key approaches to make the mobile communication networks more GREEN Globally Resource optimized and Energy Efficient Networks\is to have the cellular architecture and radio resource allocation more adaptive to the environment and traffic varia tions including making some lightly loaded base stations \(BSs\go to sleep. This is the concept of so called TANGO \(Traffic Aware Network planning and Green Operation and CHORUS Collaborative and Harmonized Open Radio Ubiquitous Systems published by th e author earlier. To realize this, a new cellular framework, named hyper cellular networks HCN has been proposed in which the coverage of control signals is decoupled from the coverage of data signals so that the data coverage can be more elastic in ac cordance with the dynamics of traffic characteristics and QoS requirements. Specifically, the data base stations \(DBSs\in HCN can be densely deployed during peak traffic time in order to satisfy the capacity requirement, while a portion of DBSs can be swi tched off or go to sleep mode if the traffic load is lower than a threshold in order to save energy. A fundamental question then arises how densely should the DBSs be deployed in order to balance the QoS requirements and the energy consumption in hyper ce llular networks     In this talk, we characterize the optimal DBS density for both homogeneous and heterogeneous hyper cellular networks to minimize network cost with stochastic geometry theory For homogeneous cases both upper and lower bounds of the optimal DBS density are derived For heterogeneous cases our analysis reveals the best type of DBSs to be deployed for capacity extension or to be switched off for energy saving. Specifically, if the ratio between the micro DBS cost and the macro DBS cost  is lower than a threshold which is a function of path loss and their transmit power then the optimal strategy is to deploy micro DBSs for capacity extension or to switch off macro DBSs \(if possible\for energy saving with higher priority Otherwise the  optimal strategy is the opposite Based on the parameters from EARTH numerical results show that in the dense urban scenario compared to the traditional macro only homogeneous cellular network with no DBS sleeping deploying micro DBSs can reduce about 40 of the total energy cost, and further reduce about 20% with DBS sleeping capability   Bio   Zhisheng Niu graduated from Northern Jiaotong University currently Beijing Jiaotong University Beijing China in 1985 and got his M.E and D.E degrees fr om Toyohashi University of Technology Toyohashi, Japan, in 1989 and 1992, respectively. After spending two years at Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd Kawasaki, Japan, he joined with Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in 1994, where he is now a professor at the  Department of Electronic Engineering and the deputy dean of the School of Information Science and Technology. His major research interests include queueing theory, traffic engineering, mobile Internet radio resource management of wireless networks, and g reen communication and networks   Dr Niu has been an active volunteer for various academic societies including council member of Chinese Institute of Electronics 2006 10 vice chair of the Information and Communication Network Committee of Chinese In stitute of Communications 2008 12 Councilor of IEICE Japan 2009 11 and membership development coordinator of IEEE Region 10 \(2009 10\ In particular, in IEEE Communication 
lxxxiv 


Society, he has been serving as an editor of IEEE Wireless Communication Magaz ine \(2009 12\ director of Asia Pacific Region \(2008 09\ director for Conference Publications \(2010 11\ chair of Beijing Chapter 2001 08 and members of Award Committee 2011 13 Emerging Technologies Committee 2010 12 On line Content Committee 20 10 12 and Strategy Planning Committee He has also been serving as general co   co    chairs o f    Prof. Niu is a co recipient of the Best Paper Awards from the 13th and 15th Asia Pacific Conference on Communication APCC in 2007 and 2009 respectively and received Outstanding Young Researcher Award from Natural Science Foundati on of China in 2009 He is now the Chief Scientist of the National  Energy and Resource Optimized Hyper Cellular Mobile Communication System 2012 2016 which is the first national project green communications in China He is the fellow of IEEE and IEICE and a distinguished lecturer of IEEE Communication Society \(2012 2013  
lxxxv 


