978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE  1 Tracking  Desert Dust Devils with In-Situ Pressure Sensors and Imaging R alph Lorenz JHU Applied Physics Laboratory 11100 Johns Hopkins Road Laurel, MD 20723 443-778-2903 Ralph.Lorenz@jhuapl.edu  Abstract Desert dust devil phenomena on Earth and Mars are reviewed, and progress in studying them with novel unattended field sensors, and with timelapse imaging, is described. These new datasets present data analysis challenges which are familiar in other tracking/target identification applications T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1 2  O UTSTANDING P ROBLEMS 2 3  I N SITU D ATA A CQUISITION 2 4  T IMELAPSE I MAGING 3 5  T HE T RACKING P ROBLEM 4 6  F ORWARD M ODELING 5 7  S UMMARY 6 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS 6 R EFERENCES 6  1  I NTRODUCTION  Dust devils \(e.g. [1  are dr y convective vorti ces that loft dust into the air, usually as a result of strong surface heating They are a familiar feature of terrestrial arid region meteorology, and play an important role in lofting dust into the atmosphere, with implications for air quality and sediment balance. Dust devils can be a nuisance for outdoor activities and can occasionally cau se structural damage or fire. A review of air accident  d i cates some  100 damaging - and in some cases fatal – incidents to aircraft that are attributable to dust devils. Dust devils are also the most prominent d ynamic phenomena observed on the surface of Mars. They are major agents of surface change, forming tracks which not only are individually visible, but may lead to accumulated albedo changes over large regions. Additionally, in the thin Martian atmosphere they are a principal mechanism of dust-raising, with a resultant influence on the en tire Martian climate.  The operations of solar-powered vehicles on the Martian surface can be significantly affected both by the dust lofted planetwide, and by local dust removal events. Thus it is important that the  frequency and behavior of dust devils be understood  Figure 1.  Dust devil on Mars viewed from above by the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter HiRISE camera \(image ESP_013545_1110\. The devil appears as a bright cloud with a dark trail to lower right, and shadow towards upper left   Figure 2.  Dust devil in Arizona during a Mars field analog campaign.  Note the high dust loading in the wall, and the wide basal skirt   


  2 2  O UTSTANDING P ROBLEMS  An interesting puzzle is whether the dust devil population is best described by a power law function [3 or a n  exponential, e.g [4,5 Mars dust devil measurements seem best described by a power law t r u n c a t e d at t h e sm al l  size end, although low detection efficiencies for small devils may be partly responsible A traditional approach to acquiring meteorological measurements inside a dust devil is to mount instrumentation on a vehicle.  This ‘stormchasing’ approach e.g i s fu n and exci t i n g t o im pl em ent  and y i el ds an efficient harvest of data in terms of encounters per day However, it is restricted to ce rtain trafficable areas and can lead to contamination of data by vehicle vibration [8 and  the vehicle itself may act as a flow obstruction which may influence the wind and the evolution of the devil. More importantly for population surveys, it leads to severe sampling bias, since \(much as with wildlife\he largest slowest, most opaque devils are sampled preferentially In addition to understanding dust devils as a phenomenon on Earth and Mars, there are practical applications. The frequency of dust devil encounters at Mars may be of interest in that dust devils may scour landers or rovers clear of accumulated dust \(of particular importance for solarpowered vehicles\though encounters could also cause electrostatic discharge effects or sandblasting effects.  Dust devils may also introduce spurious signals in sensitive seismic measurements such as those to be conducted by the InSight mission   Similarly, in-situ sensors and motion-triggered imaging find application in perimeter security and surveillance operations on Earth. Dust devils may be a source of false alarms to such systems, although at presen t no statistics are available  3  I N SITU D ATA A CQUISITION  New technology makes it possible to acquire statistics of insitu variables such as pressure by miniaturized data acquisition systems. In particul ar, precision pressure sensors coupled to dataloggers using flash memory now enable the high cadence \(~1/s or better\ measurements to be made for weeks with a system the size of a marker pen e.g. [1   Figure 3.   Internals of a Gulf Coast Data Concepts B11001 pressure logger. A USB connector is at the right end of the circuit board, which has clips for a AA battery  \(wires retrofitted by the author are to larger batteries for extended operation [10     These systems have been deployed for trials at El Dorado Playa \(south of Boulder City, Nevada, about 20km from Las Vegas\have already yielded over a hundred pressure profile signatures, an increas e of almost an order of magnitude over the best terrestrial survey \(19 devils documented by chart recorder in 1964! [1  d bri ngi ng  the terrestrial dataset to a level comparable with the 82 vortex passages recorded by Mars Pathfinder and the ~450 recorded by the Phoenix lander, see [1    Figure 4.   Pressure drop recorded by a logger as above Large devils, at least, can be detected by automatic methods e.g. [13    Th i s p r o file d evi a t es from t h e cl assic Loren t zi a n  curveshape, presumably due to the devil having an arcuate track - see figure 5 


  3  Figure 5.   Dust devil tracks observed in this HiRISE image ESP_014426_2070\, show arcuate - and in some cases trochoidal or cycloidal paths. These can give a nonmonotonic pressure profile  Figure 6.  Another pressure recording, this time showing a distinct double-dip. This suggests either a dual-core vortex or is a result of two close encounters of the same devil e.g 1     Figure 7.  Some early statistics from a summer 2012 survey using the pressure logger described in section 2. These are raw statistics, without any attempt to id entify multiple encounters of single devils etc    4  T IMELAPSE I MAGING  Equipment Following the recognition [6 o f th e statistical ch allen g e s of surveying robust numbers of dust devils, experiments 15 w e r e condu cted n e ar El D o r a d o p l aya [4 sou t h east o f  Las Vegas with various automatic timelapse cameras : the principal results here are from a modified Brinno Gardenwatchcam’ unit, with a custom housing and power supply \(using alkaline D-cells instead of the AA capability with which they are manufactu red\he camera records a sequence of ~2 megapixel colo r digital images acquired at set intervals \(usually 1 or 5 minutes\ .avi file on a 2GB USB memory stick  A significant advantage over a previously-used camera 16 is th at a ti m e sta m p is au to m a tical ly ap p lied to each  image \(since the cameras are left for many days, and no images are recorded in darkness, the image frame number is not a completely deterministic indicator of acquisition time since varying cloud may alter light levels and thus the time and image number at which acquisition ceases and starts on a given day  Data Reduction  An excellent visual impression of patterns of dust devil activity is obtained simply by watching the movie However, timelapse imagery offers its most significant advantages for quantitative analysis Of course, large datasets of this type lend themselves to automated analysis \(e.g  f u t u re expe ri m e nt s are  planned in this direction. At present a semi-automatic tool has been coded in IDL to perform the following steps illustrated in figures 8-10 1. a running average image is subtracted from each frame, to highlight features th at change between frames Dust devils tend to be the most prominent features left although vehicles and cloud motion also appear, as do crepuscular rays at sunset 2. if no features are observed, a mouse click on a GUI allows rapid progression to th e next frame; if instead the operator identifies a dust devil, the cursor is set on that and a mouse click initiates step 3 3. the feature is defined by recursively dilating a region initially the point clicked\ANDing with the thresholded image, dilating again etc. until the region ceases to grow 4. the key parameters are written to a file. These include the image #, \(x,y\positions of the base of the dust devil, its width, height and crude shape metrics, the total area in 


  4 pixels and the total ‘brightness’ \(integral of the pixel values as a proxy for dust loading The output file facilitates automatic re-analysis \(e.g using different thresholds. While not as rapid as a purely automated detection algorithm, the semiautomated approach is nonetheless efficient - one early test allowed 600 frames to be processed in only 20 minutes   Figure 8. Example raw image in grayscale, dust devil at left.   Average pixel value is ~170 DN   Figure 9. Differenced image \(stretched\.  Peak intensity is ~15DN   Figure 10.   Dust devil feature identified by dilation/ANDing algorithm  A second approach that may be fruitful is to construct a waterfall chart’ : this has pr oven effective in condensing timelapse sequences of aeolian ripple movement [1 i n t o a compact form from which ripple wavelengths and propagation speeds are readily extracted The method is as follows : a horizontal subframe of each image is extracted and is collapsed into a single line of pixels with contrast stretching and/or thresholding. This line of pixels then encapsulates the presence and location of dust devils at a given instant.  The line of pixels is rotated to become a column of a new waterfall image.  Then, the next image in the sequence is processed in the same way, and the new line of pixels introduced just to the right of the last, and so on. The result is a composite wherein the horizontal axis defines time and the vertical defines position.  \(NB the rotation step is not strictly necessary, it is just a matter of convenient presentation. Since the time axis is usually much longer than the spatial axis, long strips are better shown on a page as a stack of horizontal strips    5  T HE T RACKING P ROBLEM  Some interesting challenges arise in the interpretation of data from these measurement approaches. Dust devils may fade if they traverse an area with less available dust, hence a sequence of images may not det ect a devil in every image How should one then interpret a sequence of detections that has a gap - is it one devil with missing detections, or is it two different devils ?     Tracking by human observers acquiring synchronized stereo im ages has been reported although track points are too widely-spaced to identify the arcuate paths that would be responsible for the pressure drops seen in figures 4 and 6     Figure 11.  A sequence of images \(one minute apart\ - a bright devil moves at a steady speed - it is easy to identify this as one persistent feature translating across the scene     


  5    Figure 12. A more challenging sequence - a fainter devil at left has a lower detection efficiency, and moves faster than the bright devil near center and thus is difficult to track especially when close to the bright devil A related consideration applies to the pressure sensor network. Given a detection at location A at time t1, and at B at time t2, should these be interpreted as a single devil moving from A to B, or as two independent detections A complication arises when simply using overall occurrence rates \(such as ~1 detection/day of 0.5 mbar pressure drops since the phenomenon appears to be ‘bursty’ - groups of devils may occur together, with devil-free intervals between It has been suggested that activity may be pseudoperiodic Also, once one accepts that the de tection efficien cy of devils may not be unity, one must accept the likelihood that it is dependent on the size of the devil, its contrast, and its position relative to the camera.  The interpretation of measured size-frequency st atistics therefore requires caution These problems are familiar in a range of fields : military applications such as air defense or submarine tracking are obvious examples. Another is wildlife monitoring.  In these situations, one is obliged to estimate the detection efficiency of a given sensor as well as the population of sensed objects Bayesian methods \(e.g. [20\ have seen wide application in such settings  6  F ORWARD M ODELING  Because we are dealing with rather disparate datasets the approach we plan to pursue is termed VEMOOSE \(Vortex Evolution Model with Observation Operations Simulated Explicitly’\erein a computational arena is defined and virtual dust devils are introduced with specified characteristics.  These dust devil entities \(which can be specified to follow a power law in size, or any other function\ will traverse the arena, possibly growing in intensity, possibly disappearing abruptly, and so on.  The observation process can be simulated to develop synthetic datasets  \(e.g. an image from a groundbased platform would define a triangular wedge in the arena where dust devils are detected with some size/distance probability function\.  This allows the distinction to be drawn between dust devils that decay while in the field of view, and those that merely translate out of sight.  Simila rly, in-situ measurements of pressure at a single location can be interpreted as a central pressure drop that is constant with time and is moving - the maximum pressure drop will relate both to the intrinsic intensity of the devil, and the miss distance. Nonmonotonic paths or time-varying pressure drops can be resolved by multiple measurements. Again, a model of a devil can reconstruct the observations and account for nondetections  Figure 13. The durations of dust devils in four size categories recorded by Pathare et al. [4  at El Dor a do by conventional field observation.  Clearly small devils tend to have a shorter observed duration  Figure 14. A simple model \(see text\all characteristics of the observations, and can thus be used to generate a population with which to simulate observations  


  6 As an example, the crudelybinned aggregate observations of size vs longevity by Pathare et al. [4 b e f a i r ly w e llmodeled \(see figure 14\  by assuming that for a given diameter d \(m\he longevity t \(s\s given by  t=kdy,  where k=6.0 s/m, and y is an exponentially-distributed random variable \(approximated here by y=1/x, with x a uniformlydistributed variable between 0 and 1 Among the datasets that a population/evolution model can be compared against are  Statistics of the number of dust devils in Mars orbital images. This informs the ‘burstiness’ of dust devil activity  Pressure logger profiles, from multiple stations may help resolve pressure-drop/miss-distance ambiguities, translation speeds, and burstiness/periodicity of activity  Timelapse imaging  Statistics of the length and width of dust devil trails in Mars orbital images. This informs the longevity of devils as a function of diameter subject to assumptions about wind   7  S UMMARY  New methods in field studies of terrestrial dust devils have been described, and the challenges of interpretation noted 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This work was funded by NASA through the Mars Fundamental Research Program grant number NNX12AI04G.  Brian Jackson, Pete Lanagan and Jani Radebaugh are thanked for assistance in the field  R EFERENCES    B a lm e, M   and R  Greel ey Dust Devi l s  on Eart h and  Mars, Reviews of Geophysics, 44, RG3003 doi:10.1029/2005RG000188, 2006  ers, Dust Devil Hazard to Aviation: A Review of US Air Accident Reports, Journal of Meteorology, 30 \(No.298\78-184, 2005   Lorenz, R. D Power Law of Dust Devil Diameters on Earth and Mars, Icarus, 203, 683-684, 2009 4 P a t h a r e  A   V   M  R  B a l m e  S  M  M e t z g e r  A  S p i g a  M   C. Towner, N. O. Renno and F. Saca, Assessing the power law hypothesis for th e size-frequency distribution of terrestrial and Martian dust devils,  Icarus, 209, 851852, 2010    Kurgansky   M  St at isti cal di st ri buti on of atm o spheric dust devils, Icarus 219, 556–560, 2012 6 ren z R. D., On th e Sta tis t i ca l Dis t ri b u tio n o f  Du st  Devil Diameters, Icarus, 215, 381-390, 2011  Si ncl a i r P. C The Lower St ruct ure of Dust Devi ls Journal of the Atmospheric Sciences, 30, 1599-1619 1973 8   T r a t t  D  M    M  H  H e c h t   D  C  C a t l i n g  E  C  S a m u l o n   and P. H. Smith. In situ measurement of dust devil dynamics: Toward a strategy for Mars. Journal of Geophysical Research \(Planets\116 , 2003  Banerdt   B  et al InSi ght  An Int e grat ed Expl orati on of  the Interior of Mars, Abstract #2838, 44 th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference, Lunar and Planetary Institute, Houston, TX, 2012  Lorenz R  D. Observing Desert Dust Devils with a Pressure Logger, Geoscientific Instrumentation, Methods and Data Systems 1, 209–220, 2012  Lam b et h, R  L., On t h e m e asurem ent of dust devil parameters. Bulletin of the American, Meteorological Society 47, 522–526, 1966  Lorenz, R  D., Pressure Drops i n Dust Devi l s   Eart h an d Mars, Planetary and Space Science, 60, 370-375, 2012  W a gst a ff K.. R e al tim e det e cti on of dust devi l s fro m pressure readings. NASA Tech Brief NPO-44724, NASA Tech Briefs, 6, 2009  Lorenz, R. D., Irregular Dust Devil Pr essure Drops o n  Earth and Mars:  Effect of Cycloidal Tracks, submitted to Planetary and Space Science 


  7  Lorenz, R  D., Experi m e n t s i n Timel a pse C a m e r a  Observations of Dust Devil Activity at El Dorado Playa Nevada, Abstract #1573, 42nd Lunar and Planetary Science Conference, Lunar and Planetary Institute Houston, TX, 2011  Lorenz R  D., B  Jackson and J. B a rnes, Inexpensi v e Timelapse Digital Cameras for Studying Transient Meteorological Phenomena : Dust Devils and Playa Flooding, Journal of At mospheric and Oceanic Technology, 27, 246-256, 2010  C a st ano, A., A. F ukanag a J. B i esadecki, L. Neakrase, P Whelley, R. Greeley, M. Lemmon, R. Castano, S. Chien Automatic detection of dust devils and clouds on Mars Machine Vision and Applications, 19, 467-482, 2008  Lorenz R  D. and A Val d ez, Var i abl e W i nd R i p p l e  Migration at Great Sand Dunes National Park, Observed by Timelapse Imagery, Geomorphology, 133, 1-10, 2011 19 B a l m e  M. R A  Pa th a r e, S.M Me tzg e r  M C. To w n er  S.R. Lewis, A. Spiga, L.K. Fenton, N.O. Renno, H.M Elliott, F.A. Saca, T.I. Michae ls, P. Russell, J. Verdasca Field measurements of horizontal forward motion velocities of terrestrial dust devils: Towards a proxy for ambient winds on Mars and Earth, Icarus, 221, 632–645 2012  Koch, W  On B a y e si an Tracki ng and Dat a Fusi on  A Tutorial Introduction with Examples, IEEE Aerospace and Electronics Systems, 25, 29-51, 2010  Biographies Ralph Lorenz is a planetary scientist at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, with interests in atmospheres surfaces and their interactions, especially on Titan and Mars.  He worked for the European Space Agency on Phase B of the development of the Huygens probe to Titan, and subsequently built part of the instrumentation of the probe’s Surface Science Package SSP\. Prior to joining APL in 2006, he spent 12 years in various positions at the Lunar and Planetary Laboratory at the University of Arizona, where he led observation planning for the Cassini RADAR investigation, and served on the science team of the New Millennium DS-2 mission to Mars. He is th e author of several books including ‘Spinning Flight’, ‘Titan Unveiled’, and ‘Space Systems Failures. He has a B.Eng in Aerospace Systems Engineering from the University of Southampton \(UK and a Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Kent at Canterbury \(UK\. He is the recipient of 5 NASA Group Achievement Awards   


  8  


Virtual Social Networks Analysis in Computational Social Network Analysis  ser Computer Communications and Networks A Abraham A.-E Hassanien and V Sn  ael Eds London Springer London 2010 ch 1 pp 3…25  J K orner  Fredman-k olmo s bounds and information theory   SIAM J Algebraic Discrete Methods  vol 7 no 4 pp 560…570 Oct 1986  T  Leighton and S Rao Multicommodity max-”o w min-cut theorems and their use in designing approximation algorithms J ACM  vol 46 no 6 pp 787…832 Nov 1999  M Bastian S He ymann and M Jacomy  Gephi An open source software for exploring and manipulating networks 2009  A.-L Barabasi and R Albert Emer gence of scaling in random networks Science  vol 286 no 5439 pp 509…512 1999 


application or middleware platform to collect request ows Thus it is much easier to deploy FChain in large-scale IaaS clouds Blacksheep correl a t e s t he change poi nt of s y s t em-l e v el metrics e.g cpu usage with the change in count of Hadoop application states i.e events extracted from logs of DataNodes and TaskTrackers to detect and diagnose the anomalies in a Hadoop cluster Kahuna-BB correl a t e s b l ack-box dat a system-level metrics and white-box data Hadoop console logs across different nodes of a MapReduce cluster to identify faulty nodes In comparison FChain is a black-box fault localization system which is application-agnostic without requiring any knowledge about the application internals We believe that FChain is more practical and attractive for IaaS cloud systems than previous white-box or gray-box techniques V C ONCLUSION In this paper we have presented FChain a robust blackbox online fault localization system for IaaS cloud computing infrastructures FChain can quickly pinpoint faulty components immediately after the performance anomaly is detected FChain provides a novel predictability-based abnormal change point selection scheme that can accurately identify the onset time of the abnormal behaviors at different components processing dynamic workloads FChain combines both the abnormal change propagation knowledge and the inter-component dependency information to achieve robust fault localization FChain can further remove false alarms by performing online validation We have implemented FChain on top of the Xen platform and conducted extensive experimental evaluation using IBM System S data stream processing system Hadoop and RUBiS online auction benchmark Our experimental results show that FC hain can achieve much higher accuracy i.e up to 90 higher precision and up to 20 higher recall than existing schemes FChain is light-weight and non-intrusive which makes it practical for large-scale IaaS cloud computing infrastructures A CKNOWLEDGMENT This work was sponsored in part by NSF CNS0915567 grant NSF CNS0915861 grant NSF CAREER Award CNS1149445 U.S Army Research Of“ce ARO under grant W911NF-10-1-0273 IBM Faculty Awards and Google Research Awards Any opinions expressed in this paper are those of the authors and do not necessarily re”ect the views of NSF ARO or U.S Government The authors would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their insightful comments R EFERENCES   A m azon E las tic Com pute Cloud  h ttp://a w s  a m azon com ec2   V i rtual c om puting lab  http://vcl ncs u  e du  P  Barham  A  D onnelly  R I s aacs  a nd R M o rtier   U s ing m agpie f or request extraction and workload modelling in 
 2004  M  Y  Chen A  A ccardi E  K icim an J  L lo yd D  P atters on A  F ox and E Brewer Path-based failure and evolution management in  2004  R F ons eca G  P o rter  R H  K atz S  S h enk e r  and I  S toica X T race A pervasive network tracing framework in  2007  I  Cohen M  G o lds z m i dt T  K elly  J  S ym ons  a nd J  S  Chas e Correlating Instrumentation Data to System States A Building Block for Automated Diagnosis and Control in  2004  I  C ohen S  Z h ang M  G o lds z m i dt J  S ym ons  T  K elly  a nd A  F ox Capturing indexing clustering and retrieving system history in  2005  S  D uan S  Bab u  a nd K  M unagala F a A s ys tem for a utom ating failure diagnosis in  2009  S  K andula R Mahajan P  V erkaik S  A garw al J  P a dhye a nd V  Bahl Detailed diagnosis in computer networks in  2009  A  J  O liner  A  V  K ulkarni and A  A ik en  U s ing c orrelated s u rpris e to infer shared in”uence in  2010  P  Bahl R Chandra A  G r eenber g  S  K andula D  A  M altz and M Zhang Towards highly reliable enterprise network services via inference of multi-level dependencies in  2007  Z  G ong X  G u  a nd J  W ilk es   P RE S S  P Redicti v e E las tic ReS ource Scaling for Cloud Systems in  2010  H  N guyen Y  T a n and X  G u P A L  P ropagation-a w are a nom aly localization for cloud hosted distributed applications in  2011  B Gedik H Andrade K L  W u P  S  Y u and M  D oo SP ADE  t he system s declarative stream processing engine in  2008  A pache H adoop S y s tem   http://hadoop apache  or g/co re   Rice uni v e rs ity bidding s y s tem   http://rubis  objectw eb  o r g   M Ben-Y e huda D  B reitgand M F actor  H  K o lodner  V  K r a v ts o v  and D Pelleg NAP a building blo ck for remediating performance bottlenecks via black box network analysis in  2009  Y  T a n X  G u  a nd H  W a ng  A dapti v e s ys tem anom aly prediction f or large-scale hosting infrastructures in  2010  D  L  M ills   A b rief his t ory o f N T P tim e m e m o irs o f a n i nternet timekeeper  2003  Y  T a n H  N guyen Z  S h en X  G u C V e nkatram ani and D  R ajan PREPARE Predictive Performance Anomaly Prevention for Virtualized Cloud Systems in  2012  M  Bas s e ville and I  V  N ikiforo v   Prentice-Hall Inc 1993  L  Cherkaso v a  K  O zonat N Mi J  S ym ons a nd E  Sm irni  Anom aly application change or workload change towards automated detection of application performance anomaly and change in  2008  P  Barham and e t al   X e n a nd the a rt of virtualization  i n  2003  T he ircache p roject  h ttp://www.ircache.net  H ttperf  h ttp://code google com  p htt p er f  S  K u llback  T h e ku llback-leibler distance  1987  X  Chen M  Z hang Z  M  M a o and P  B ahl  A utom ating n etw ork application dependency discovery experiences limitations and new solutions in  2008  M Y u  A  G reenber g  D  M altz J  Re xford L  Y u an S  K andula and C Kim Pro“ling network performance for multi-tier data center applications in  2011  M K  A guilera J  Mogul J  W iener  P  R e ynolds  a nd A  Muthitacharoen Performance debugging for distributed systems of black boxes in  2003  S  A g arw ala F  A l e g re K  S chw a n and J  M ehalingham  E 2E P r of A utomated end-to-end performance management for enterprise systems in  2007  P  Re ynolds  J  L  W iener  J  C M ogul M  K  A guilera and A  V ahdat  WAP5 black-box performance debugging for wide-area systems in  2006  R Apte L  Hu K  S chw a n and A  G hosh L ook W ho s T alking Discovering dependencies between virtual machines using cpu utilization in  2010  G Khanna I  L aguna F  A rshad an d S Bagchi Distr ibuted diagnosis of failures in a three tier e-commerce system in  2007  R R S a m b as i v an A  X  Z heng M  D e Ros a  E  K re v at S  W h itm an M Stroucken W Wang L Xu and G R Ganger Diagnosing performance changes by com paring request ows in  2011  J  T a n a nd P  N a ras i m h an  RA M S and B lackS h eep I nferring w h ite-box application behavior using black-box techniques CMU Tech Rep 2008  J  T a n X  P a n E  Marinelli S  K a vulya R  G andhi a nd P  N a ras i m h an Kahuna Problem diagnosis for mapreduce-based cloud computing environments in  2010 
OSDI NSDI NSDI OSDI SOSP ICDE SIGCOMM DSN SIGCOMM CNSM SLAML SIGMOD ICAC PODC Computer Communication Review ICDCS Detection of abrupt changes theory and application DSN SOSP The American Statistician OSDI NSDI SOSP DSN WWW HotCloud SRDS NSDI NOMS 
207 
30 
30 


A Global Solution COVERAGE North and South America EMEA and Asia White lines are flights in the masFlight platform from February 8, 2013 Yellow pins are weather stations feeding hour ly data to our platform Maps from Google Earth / masFlight masFlight tracks flights, airports and weather around the world  Global daily flight information capture  82,000 flights  350 airlines  1700 airports  Integrated weather data for 6,000 stations  Match weather to delays  Validate block forecasts at granular level  Add weather analytics to IRROPS review and scenario planning 


Example 1: Proposed FAA Tower Closures masFlight used big-data to link airport operations across three large data sets  Current and historical airline schedules  Raw Aircraft Situation Display to Industry \(ASDI\AA  Enhanced Traffic Management System Counts \(ETMS\Airport operations counts by type \(commercial, freight, etc TOWER CLOSINGS Dots indicate closures; Red dots have scheduled service Based on scheduled service March 1 7, 20 13; scheduled service includes scheduled charter flights, cargo flig hts, and passenger flights Dots  indicate  closures  Red  dots  have  scheduled  service Bas ed  o n sc h edu l ed  se rvi ce  M a r c h 1  7, 2013; scheduled se rvi ce includ es scheduled c harter fli g hts car g o fli g hts a nd passen g er fli g hts Findings: Proposed Tower Closings  From schedules database: 55 airports with scheduled passenger airline service  14 EAS Airports  From ASDI & ETMS: 10,600 weekly flights on a flight plan \(ex. VFR and local traffic  6,500 Part 91/125 weekly flights  4,100 Part 135/121 weekly flights  


Example 1: Big-Data Analytics Applied to ASDI and ETMS To Analyze Operations TOWER CLOSINGS  26 44 24 23 11 10 6 2 1 2 Up to 5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20-25 25-30 30-35 35-40 40-45 45 Count of Airports Average Number of Daily Operations with a Flight Plan Filed Distribution of Airports By Average Number of “Daily” Impacted Flights Airports Affected by Tower Closures Source: ASDI radar data – Part 91 151 flying and Part 135/121 flying March 1-7, 2013; masFlight analysis Note: Average “daily“ operations based on 5-day week 


Example 2: Aviation Safety Causal Factor For example, consider the following ASRS report \(ACN 1031837 Departing IAH in a 737-800 at about 17,000 FT, 11 m iles behind a 737-900 on the Junction departure over CUZZZ Intersection. Smooth air with wind on the nose bearing 275 degrees at 18 KTS We were suddenly in moderate chop which lasted 4 or 5 seconds then stopped and then resumed for another 4 or 5 seconds with a significant amount of ri ght rolling… I selected a max rate climb mode in the FMC in order to climb above the wake and flight path of the leading -900 We asked ATC for the type ahead of us and reported the wake encounter. The 900 was about 3,300 FT higher than we were  Synopsis  B737-800 First Officer reported wake encounter from preceding B737-900 with resultant roll and moderate chop What causal factors can be identified from this narrative that could be applied to future predictive applications CAUSAL FACTORS Data-mining algorithms can mine the text of safety reports to obtain specific data that can be used to analyze causal factors  


Example 2: Identifying Causal Factors CAUSAL FACTORS  Indicators – Data Element Methods – Identifying Context and Causes  Time of day  Date range \(month day  Aircraft type  Fix or coordinates  Originating airport  Destination airport  Weather notes We pinpoint the sequencing of flights on the IAH Junction Seven departure \(at CUZZZ\the specified wind conditions to find cases wher e a B737-900 at 20,000 feet precedes by 11 miles a B737-800 at 17,000 feet  Search related data sets including ASDI flight tracks, local traffic and congestion  Weather conditions for alter native causes \(winds aloft shear and convecti ve activity  Airline specific informati on \(repeated occurrence of event in aircraft type Big data gives us visibility into contextual factors even if specific data points are missing such as a specific date or route Big-data analytics gives us insight into unreported factors as well 


Example 3: Correlating Utilization and Delays  60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 7 9 11 13 ONTIME DEPARTURE PERFORMANCE HOURS OF DAILY UTILIZATION 60.0 70.0 80.0 90.0 100.0 7.0 9.0 11.0 13.0 Narrowbodies By Day of Week 60.0 70.0 80.0 90.0 100.0 7.0 9.0 11.0 13.0 Widebodies by Day of Week Daily Utilization vs. On-time Departures January 2013 System Operations Correlation Coefficient -0.53 Includes AA, AC, AS B6 F9, FL, NK, UA, US VX and WN SOURCE masFlight \(masflight.com COMPARING OTP AND UTILIZATION 


 6.2 6.0 5.8 5.8 5.2 4.9 LGB JFK BOS MCO DCA FLL JetBlue Focus Average Daily Deps per Gate Used UTILIZATION BY HUB Example 4: Daily Utilization of Gates, by Hub Big-data analysis of different carriers daily departures per gate used SOURCE masFlight \(masflight.com June 1 through August 31, 2012 Gates with minimum 1x daily use 7.7 7.4 7.2 6.2 6.1 5.8 3.8 3.6 ORD LAX SFO EWR DEN IAH IAD CLE United Airlines Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 7.8 6.4 5.5 5.4 5.3 4.4 4.3 4.0 SEA SAN PDX ANC SFO GEG LAX SJC Alaska Airlines Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 7.2 6.9 6.8 6.4 5.0 2.7 ORD DFW LAX LGA MIA JFK American Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 7.2 6.9 6.6 4.9 4.2 CLT DCA PHL PHX BOS US Airways Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used 6.6 5.9 5.5 4.7 MCO BWI ATL MKE AirTran Hubs Average Daily Deps per Gate Used ne pe 


Conclusions for Big Data in Aviation  Big-data transforms operational and commercial problems that were practically unsolvable using discrete data and on-premises hardware  Big data offers new insight into existing data by centralizing data acquisition and consolidation in the cloud and mining data sets efficiently  There is a rich portfolio of information that can feed aviation data analytics  Flight position, schedules, airport/gate, weather and government data sets offer incredible insight into the underlying causes of aviation inefficiency  Excessive size of each set forces analysts to consider cloud based architectures to store, link and mine the underlying information  When structured, validated and linked these data sources become significantly more compelling for applied research than they are individually  Today’s cloud based technologies offer a solution CONCLUSIONS 


Conclusions:  Our Approach  masFlight’s data warehouse and analysis methods provide a valuable example for others attempting to solve cloud based analytics of aviation data sets  masFlight’s hybrid architecture, consolidating secure data feeds in on-premises server installations and feeding structured data into the cloud for distribution, addresses the unique format, security and scale requirements of the industry  masFlight’s method is well suited for airline performance review competitive benchmarking, airport operations and schedule design and has demonstrated value in addressing real-world problems in airline and airport operations as well as government applications CONCLUSIONS 





