978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE  1 Sensor and Computing Resource Management for a Small Satellite Abhilasha Bhatia, Kyle Goehner, John Sand, Jeremy Straub Atif Mohammad, Christoffer Korvald Department of Computer Science University of North Dakota 3950 Campus Road, Stop 9015 Grand Forks, ND 58202-9015 1-701-777-4107 abhilasha.bhatia@my.und.edu kyle.goehner.2@my.und.edu jonathan.sand@my.und.edu, jeremy.straub@my.und.edu atif.mohammad@my.und.edu, ch ristoffer.korvald@my.und.edu Anders Kose Nervold Department of Entrepreneurship University of North Dakota 293 Centennial Drive, Stop 8098 
Grand Forks, ND 58202-8098 1-701-777-2135 anders.nervold@my.und.edu   Abstract 227 A small satellite in a low-Earth orbit \(e.g approximately a 300 to 400 km altitude\ has an orbital velocity in the range of 8.5 km/s and completes an orbit approximately every 90 minutes. For a satellite with minimal attitude control this presents a significant challenge in obtaining multiple images of a target region. Presuming an inclination in the range of 50 to 65 degrees, a limited number of opportunities to 
image a given target or communicate with a given ground station are available, over the course of a 24-hour period. For imaging needs \(where solar illumination is required\he number of opportunities is further reduced. Given these short windows of opportunity for imaging, data transfer, and sending commands, scheduling must be optimized. In addition to the high-level scheduling performed for spacecraft operations, payload-level scheduling is also required. The mission requires that images be post-processed to maximize 
spatial resolution and minimize data transfer \(through removing overlapping regions\. The payload unit includes GPS and inertial measurement unit \(IMU\ hardware to aid in image alignment for the aforementioned. The payload scheduler must, thus, split its energy and computing-cycle budgets between determining an imaging sequence \(required to capture the highly-overlapping data required for super-resolution and adjacent areas required for mosaicking\, processing the 
imagery \(to perform the super-resolution and mosaicking\nd preparing the data for transmission \(compressing it, etc.\is paper presents an approach for satellite control, scheduling and operations that allows the cameras, GPS and IMU to be used in conjunction to acquire higher-resolution imagery of a target region  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1 2  B ACKGROUND 
3 3  T ECHNICAL A PPROACH 4 4  E VALUATION OF T ECHNICAL A PPROACH 6 5  F UTURE W ORK AND C ONCLUSIONS 6 R EFERENCES 7  1  I NTRODUCTION  Description of Payload The payload software onboard a small satellite is in charge of requesting image captures from the operating software The operating software then returns a series of images to the 
payload system. Once received the images will either be mosaicked or analyzed for super-resolution depending on the job request. This process of mosaicking h e i m a g es together to create a larger stitched image will require analyzing each image individually using feature recognition algorithms [2 d th e satellit e IMU to alig n t h e i m ag e s an d  combine them to form one large image that spans the requested area. If the job request was to create a superresolution image the images will still need to be processed for their similar features but then the overlapping regions will have to be combined to form a higher resolution image 3 f th e sa m e re g i o n In t h is  w a y th e satellite ca n i n crease  the quality of very specific regions for better analysis at the 
ground station Since the communication window with the ground station is very limited \(in the range of 1200 baud\he images will require some type of compression before being sent to the ground station. Depending on the time allotted to the payload software for power consumption a simple compression algorithm may be used to save storage space and especially transfer time from the satellite to the ground station. With efficient compression the satellite can be much more efficient when transferring data Components of Payload 


978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE  2 As demonstrated in Figure 1, there are four main components to the payload software: image registration image mosaicking [1  sup e r r e so lutio n p r o c e ssi ng a n d image compression. Each of these components plays a crucial role in the processing of images collected by the operating software and in the completion of the requested satellite job  Figure 1. The four main components of the payload software are image mosaicking, super resolution processing image compression, and image registration An important component to the payload software [4 w ill b e  the image registration. Image registration is the process of mapping out similar features in a set of images and then doing affine transformations on those images to place them in the same orientation and allowing the images to be easily processed relative to each other. Since both image mosaicking d s u per res o l u t i o n proces s i ng requ i re  images to be accurately placed relative to one another the image registration plays an important role in the overall functionality of the payload software Second is the image compression component. Image compression is the process of reducing the overall number of bits used to store the images. Once the images have been processed and are ready to be sent to the ground station the compression component will run a standard lossless image compression algorithm \(such as JPEG or fractal compression\ to make the image files smaller and more manageable when being sent over a slow network to the ground station Next is the mosaicking component. Image mosaicking is the process of stitching multiple images together to create a larger image and reduce the overlapping components of a series of images. This process will be used to reduce the overall size and number of images that need to be sent from the satellite to the ground station Finally the super-resolution processing component will be used to enhance specific regions of the satellite imagery when necessary or requested. Super-resolution processing is the processing of artificially increasing the resolution of a picture. This processing can be requested by the ground station to extrapolate extra data from the images Together these four components allow the payload software to complete a given task sent from the ground station. The payload\222s main purpose and functions will be processed through these components, optimized, and passed back to the main system where they can be queued up and sent down to the ground station Functionality of Payload The main functionality of the payload software is to send a request for execution of a \223take picture\224 command to the operating software. The operating software will then record the picture at the desired time, and pass the image frames to the payload software. The image frames will then be processed by the image registration component, then either processed through mosaicking or super-resolution, before being compressed by the compression component. The processed image frames are then sent back to the operating software for storage and potential transmission to the ground station Image mosaicking solves two main issues of image processing: correcting geometric deformations, and stitching images together to reduce overlapping areas of multiple images. This process will be done by aligning images with their GPS and IMU data and then using image registration to find feature of the images that can be used to map the similar areas in the images to one another. Then the process can stitch the images together by removing the overlapping areas and creating a wide view image Super-resolution is the process of artificially increasing the resolution of a picture. Multiple solutions exist for doing this, but the proposed satellite will focus on using four images to increase the resolution. It will do this by taking numerous images and using the GPS/IMU to determine the ordering of the pictures. The ordering will be the first image taken from the top will be one, the second on the top will be two, the first on the bottom will be three, and the second on the bottom four. From these images, image registration will find features to accurately determine the overlap on any two or more pictures. The satellite will then break down these images pixel by pixel and take a pixel from one and put in the top left of the new group of pixels that is the superresolution image. The second pixel will take the same pixel as the first and put it half a pixel to the right of the first pixel The third pixel will be the same pixel as the first and second    Figure 2\226 Multi-Image Super-resolution uses four images taken of the same region/area. The pixels are matched up and then inserted next to each other in an image with four times the number of pixels of the original photos. This type of super-resolution can increase the original image quality by 1.0x to 2.0x   


978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE  3 and place it half a pixel under the first pixel in the new image, and the last pixel will be taken from the fourth image and placed half a pixel to the right and half a pixel down effectively creating a rectangle of pixels. This new superresolution image will be twice the size as the original overlapped section effectively doubling the resolution Figure 1 shows the process of four 2x2 pixel images being made into one higher resolution image through superresolution. The resulting super-resolution image may not always provide more detail, as the new picture is based off of the four original pictures, those pictures must differ in some perspective in order for the super-resolution image to show much change. The new image will also only be up to a maximum of twice the resolution of the original pictures The purpose of image compression is to reduce the size of the image data in order to more efficiently store and transmit the image. The satellite image compression software will be using JPEG compression to reduce the size of the image while attempting to preserve the overall quality. To further compress the images, Huffman encoding a lossless compression\ will be applied to the JPEG files Finally, Model Based Data Transmission will be utilized to effectively compress the transmission data being passed to the ground station, achieving significant improvements over standard transmission protocols h e co m p res s i o n  component of the payload software is the most used component but also one of the easier components to implement 2  B ACKGROUND  Prior work on Mosaicking There has been a lot of research done on image mosaicking and the processes involved in creating seamless transitions between the stitched images. Much of this research is covered and re-analyzed in Bowne and Lowe\222s paper [5  This includes Automatic Panorama Straightening, MultiBand Blending, Gain Compensation, and Bundle Adjustment. Automatic Panorama Straightening is a process in which the final image mosaic is straightened out to correct for the changes in camera angle that can cause a curved mosaic in the end Multi-band blending is a technique to help reduce the edges between mosaicked images by correcting for vignetting and parallax effects due to camera motion and lens effects. Gain compensation is a method to create a constant gain across all of the images. This is easy for multiple images, even if the images are taken at the exact same location, and there are differences in gain and brightness. Gain compensation evaluates the overall gain of the images and evens it out as much as possible as to reduce inconsistencies. Bowne and Lowe [5 h a v e set u p a s i m p le list to co m b i n e al l o f t h e above techniques and create crisp consistent mosaics Input n unordered images 1  Extract SIFT features from all n images 2  Find k nearest-neighbors for each feature using a k-d tree 3  For each image a  Select m candidate matching images that have the most feature matches to this image b  Find geometrically consistent feature matches using RANSAC to solve for the homography between pairs of images c  Verify image matches using a probabilistic model 4  Find connected components of image matches 5  For each connected component a  Perform bundle adjustment to solve for the rotation 1 2 3 and focal length f of all cameras b  Render panorama using multi-band blending Output Panoramic image\(s Prior work on Super-resolution When a camera captures an image, the light is funneled through the lens, and accumulated by the CCD sensor, the charge is shifted and recorded by an analog to digital converter where color values are extracted based off of interpolation of Beyer mask filter data. When light first passes through the camera, the image gets distorted, aliased blurred, and noise is introduced [10  T h is is w h at led to th e  introduction of super-resolution. Super-resolution takes multiple images and artificially increases the resolution of a picture The goal when doing super-resolution is to get an image that provides more detail than the original individual images contained. There are several methods available to do superresolution: neighbor interpolation, bilinear interpolation, and bicubic interpolation to name but a few. Nearest neighbor interpolation takes the nearest pixel to the interpolated point and makes it the same color, effectively enlarging the size of each pixel. Bilinear interpolation doubles the resolution of the image by assigning all the new pixels average color of the four closest pixels \(see Figure 1\icubic interpolation is similar to bilinear interpolation, except it uses the nearest 16 pixels and averages them out, while giving the nearest pixels more weight to change the color. Bicubic interpolation produces the sharpest image out of the three methods discusse  The discussed forms of interpolation can help with multiframe super-resolution. Multi-frame super-resolution takes images, identifies a common landmark, and combines the four images to make a new image with up to twice the resolution of the original. Interpolation can  aid in this by smoothing out pixels that are irregular, or pixels that do not 


978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE  4 match the other surrounding pixels. This adds a more constant color for groups of pixels within the superresolution image Prior work on Inertial Measurement Units Traditional image registration has been done strictly with feature matching between the images, but there has also been research into using Global Positioning System \(GPS and Inertial Measurement Unit \(IMU\rom UAVs to more easily match up images to one another. This can be achieved by having the changes in location and orientation of the camera recorded when the camera captures the images Most such projects have focused on using very high quality IMU and GPS systems that return very accurate results. In a paper by Mitch Bryson et al. the topic of using small UAVs with lower quality GPS and IMU systems is discussed along with the benefits these systems can provide for the image processing They used the IMU and GPS to gather the position and altitude of the UAV and its trajectory. From the image data point features are found and matched across the group of images. The position altitude map is then used with the feature-mapped images to form a more accurate mosaic in which the orientation of the UAV has been taken into account. This process of using GPS and an IMU to ease the processing of images onboard the CubeSat will help to reduce the time it takes to create the mosaics The Purpose of Payloads on Satellites The payload of a satellite is the equipment in the satellite dedicated to execute the satellite's primary mission. These systems may include a variety of sensors, such as radio infrared, visible, ultraviolet, x-ray, gamma ray, particle or field sensors h es e s e nsors col l ect t h e dat a  f o r di rect  transmittal to the ground station or for further processing by the payload software before transmittal Typically, the higher the quality data that is required for the purpose of the satellite, the larger the sensor will be. In the case of CubeSats on the other hand, payload space is extremely limited. Creative techniques such as significant post-processing of the data are thus utilized to maximize the quality of the data being delivered by the limited-in-size payload. As discussed in the introduction of this paper, the Open Orbiter payload system will utilize techniques such as image mosaicking and super-resolution to increase the overall quality of the data acquired, and reduce the amount of data needed to be transmitted to the ground station. These creative techniques can also be utilized in larger satellites to increase quality of the data without requiring hardware and/or size upgrades 3  T ECHNICAL A PPROACH  The payload software onboard the small satellite will be used to complete the more computationally expensive tasks of the satellite 200  Create a list of times when the satellite should collect image data to complete a certain task 200  Create a mosaicked image from a set of images 200  Create a super-resolution image from a set of images 200  Use lossless compression to reduce the amount of data that needs to be transferred Each of these tasks is required for the small satellite to efficiently collect and transfer high-resolution imagery or mosaicks to the ground station Implications of Using Onboard IMU and GPS Data A satellite in low-Earth orbit is vulnerable to changes in perturbations that may have negative effects on the stability of the satellite. This in turn affects the input data to the satellite through external sources. In the case of CubeSats the small size of these satellites renders them more prone to such changes/perturbations. The perturbations in satellite orbits can be created by a number of factors; some of which being the atmospheric drag, Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem \(ADCS\ generated movement, solar emission pressure and others. Solar emissions and ADCSgenerated movement will fluctuate throughout the orbit \226 particularly when ADCS control is utilized \(from the control reaction wheels\. Atmospheric drag varies somewhat over time; however, it will change \(additionally\ during the lifetime of the satellite as its altitude decreases A satellite that takes input as images from a camera attached to it and intends to build a cl ear imagery of the scenario requires being robust to the rotational and angular variations occurring. To compensate for these variations after the fact it is proposed to use an IMU and a GPS to keep track of the orientation and position of the small satellite. Chon el al states, \223the position and orientation of the camera can be derived from GPS and IMU data with sufficient accuracy to allow direct georeferencing without the need for Ground Control Points\224 [1 Determining the Image Capture Time The satellite will receive two GPS coordinates from the ground station as a task. The two coordinates represent the upper left and the lower right corners of a boxed region from which to collect image data. This task will be for a single image request, a mosaicked image request, a superresolved image request, or both a mosaicked and superresolved image request. Each request from the ground station will be analyzed by the satellite operating software and then passed to the payload software to be broken into small jobs for the operating software. Each job will consist of a specific time the satellite should capture an image. The image data can then be stored for later processing by the payload software 


978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE  5 The process of determining when the satellite needs to capture images to complete the specified task is a mission critical software process and can be computationally expensive. The satellite needs to determine if the current region has been photographed recently, and if not, what is the earliest time it can being photographing that region. The current location \(GPS\d velocity \(IMU/GPS\ of the satellite can be used to calculate when the satellite will be over the region of interest and at what interval images need to be captured in order to create a sufficient overlap for mosaicking or super-resolution. Since energy consumption is an important factor for a small satellite the payload software must determine optimal times for image capture When creating mosaics, image overlap is necessary to find enough features to properly match regions of each image but less overlap means fewer images are required to cover the entire area requested by the ground station. A proper distance between each image capture is necessary to save energy consumption of the satellite while still allowing enough overlap for accurate feature recognition Mosaicking with IMU Data Imaging depends on the factors whether an image, or sequence of images, is being captured from earth\222s lower orbits or further away. The problem of distortion caused by this can be solved through an approach of mosaicking and utilizing IMUs. A question that still needs to be answered is whether an IMU can aid the system in determining the appropriate orientation and angular displacement of the camera onboard. This in turn could aid in determining the displacement, direction, and the positions of the consecutive images taken, with respect to one another. This in turn would aid in the construction of correct mosaics of the sequence of images. For instance: Let translational displacement between two overlapping images be S, angular displacement as and the rotational displacement be another angle If the IMU aids in determining values of these parameters, then theses values could be simultaneously decided for each consecutive image. The rotational displacement would determine the depth of the image, contributing to its 3-D measure After determining the value of each parameter for each image, they are brought to gether according to their displacements and stitched by using various available algorithms, into the mosaic As discussed above, it is critical for a satellite to be stabilized. In situations when its motion is not very stabilized, it must be efficient enough to render its geolocation information. By doing so, it would aid in identifying the correct location of the source of the images of the satellite. The correct angles of the images, and even the depth of the objects can become difficult to determine At this point, the role of an IMU can become invaluable in determining the attitude and direction of the satellite. An IMU is being used on the small satellite to increase the accuracy and efficiency of mosaicking and super-resolution algorithms The IMU aids in the process of aligning images by providing information about how the satellite has changed attitude and direction between image captures. This would allow a mosaicking algorithm to more quickly match features in images with large rotation differences. For example if an image was taken and for some reason the satellite was rotationally displaced 90\272 between the next image capture the onboard IMU would be able to relay this information and the mosaicking or super resolution algorithm would be able to compensate for this change prior to using a more computationally expensive method The addition of the IMU can potentially save a large amount of processing time for the limited onboard hardware resources. The small satellite will have very limited computation capabilities and battery life, this means if even a small amount of computational resources can been saved by collecting IMU data it could mean a monumental increase in overall satellite productivity Image Sequencing and Feature Recognition Once the satellite collects the images, the payload software must determine the proper order of images to create the requested mosaick or super-resolved image. This is not a difficult process since GPS data, IMU data, and current time are collected along with the capture of each image. This data can quickly be used to determine the how the images align and overlap. The known overlapping regions of each image can be used to reduce the computations required for the feature recognition algorithm since it only needs to find features in overlapping regions. This process can help reduce the processing time and overall energy consumption of the satellite to boost satellite efficiency Mosaicking Approach Mosaicking is the concept of stitching images sharing common regions, or, bringing together the overlapping regions of more than one image. The mosaicking done on the satellite is done to reduce the overall amount of data needing to be transferred by removing any overlapping regions in the images of the photographed area. In this way images can be mosaicked and a single image of the photographed area can be sent to the ground station The mosaicking process involves feature correlation to be done between the overlapping regions of two or more images. With the IMU allowing for faster feature correlation a large number of images can be mosaicked using a feature recognition tool such as SIFT \(Scale-Invariant Feature Transform Super-resolution Approach Super-resolution is the concept of combining the a group of low resolution images of the same object to create a higher resolution image in the hopes of adding to the overall image 


978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE  6 quality. The purpose of the on the satellite is to allow for higher quality images from the small satellites onboard camera The satellites super resolution will be similar to the mosaicking process in that it required a set of images to be matched by correlating unique features across the images Once this is done we can super-resolve the images to create a new, higher quality image. By doing this onboard the satellite it reduces amount of data that needs to be transmitted to the ground station and thus increases satellite performance Super-resolution and Mosaicking Approach The implementation of mosaicking with super-resolution is done with a goal of producing a final image with higher resolution. The super-resolution approach is used to accomplish this. A question that has yet to be answered is whether super-resolution would enhance the data quality of the overlapping regions in the image mosaics. According to Zomet, Peleg [8 h e su p e r reso lu tio n al g o rith m s  m a k e u s e  of the image displacements on the overlapping regions. This in turn provides for a dense sampling, which restores high frequencies and improves resolution Compression of Onboard Data The payload software will also be responsible for image compression on the satellite. This compression will take place after any large processing task such as mosaicking or super-resolution. Since the image will be transmitted from the satellite to the ground station using very slow data transfer rates \(approximately 1200 baud\d transfer will only be available for very short periods of time, it is very important to consider the amount of data being transferred It is important to preserve the image quality since the images collected at the ground station will most likely require careful analysis or will be further processed in some way. Because of this, the image compression used must be lossless. Methods such as fractal compression can be used to greatly compress the satellite images however the algorithm is highly anti-symmetric and can be very computationally expensive when compressing the images. This method would be very effective for transmitting the images however we must also consider the computational expense of fractal compression. Due to the limited satellite resources we must also consider the use of other lossless compression algorithms  4  E VALUATION OF T ECHNICAL A PPROACH  This paper has presented an approach for satellite control scheduling and operations that allows the cameras, GPS and IMU to be used in conjunction to acquire higher-resolution imagery of a target region. It reviewed the techniques that are best suited for this task in light of power budget, transfer time, image quality and computing time considerations Strategies for balancing onboard preprocessing and transfer time have been reviewed and a selection methodology has been discussed. The value of the IMU and the GPS sensors in decreasing processing requirements was also discussed Beyond the work presented, several key areas of consideration remain.  This includes consideration of the tradeoffs between image quality, quantity and timeliness.  A framework that can be used to determine a highly optimized approach for determining when to capture imagery, when and what to transmit, and techniques for conserving power and computing cycles is also required. Significant groundbased processing must be incorporated to prepare the imagery and associated data for transmission to data users Repackaging and region-slicing considerations and techniques to optimize the data for public and secondary research purposes must be incorporated 5  F UTURE W ORK AND C ONCLUSIONS  Further work will look into the algorithm that will be utilized for aligning the panorama into various panoramic images and then applying super-resolution on each of the panoramic aligned strip.  There are various other superresolution techniques that could be utilized. Starting with the color image super-resolution, with the help of coloring pixels in the overlapping regions, similar features could be distinguished. The use of fast-Fourier transforms \(which are computationally economical\ld determine the behavior of various frames of the scene or in a mosaic, based on the frequency matching criteria. As discussed before, the use of scale invariant feature extractio n \(SIFT\would be one of the prominent approaches to look at. Figure 3 illustrates a mosaic image comprised of 6 separate frames Figure 3\226SIFT Feature Matching  The above has presented a framework that can be used to determine a highly optimized approach for determining when to capture imagery, when and what to transmit and techniques for conserving power and computing cycles Also discussed is the ground-based processing that is required to prepare the imagery and associated data for transmission to data users. Repackaging and region-slicing considerations are discussed as are techniques to optimize the data for public and secondary research purposes  The lesson of the OpenOrbiter spacecraft mission resource management is of main importance for the operational robustness of entire mission, both for students and researchers. The approach laid forth in this paper can acquiesce functional and edifying outcomes in two ways 


978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE  7 From an edification position, the project participants gain 223real-world\224 understanding of responding to the needs of future employers. From a programmatic position, the lack of payload utilization introduces lack of mission relevance R EFERENCES   1  J  C h o n  H  K i m   C  S  L i n  S e a m l i n e  determination for image mosaicing: A technique minimizing the maximum local mismatch and the global cost. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Volume 65, Issue 1, January 2010, Pages 86-92  2 G  E r us N i c o l a s Lo m\351 ni e  H o w t o i nvo l ve  structural modeling for cartographic object recognition tasks in high-resolution satellite images? Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 31 Issue 10, 15 July 2010, Pages 1109-1119  3  Y  L i n g  M  E h l e r s  E  L  U s e r y  M  M a d d e n  F F T enhanced IHS transform method for fusing highresolution satellite images. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Volume 61 Issue 6, February 2007, Pages 381-392  4 A  Ad d a i m   A K h e r r a s  E  B  Za n t o u  D S P  implementation of integrated store-and-forward APRS payload and OBDH subsystems for low-cost small satellite. Aerospace Science and Technology Volume 12, Issue 4, June 2008, Pages 308-317 5  Matth e w B r o w n a n d Da v i d  G. L o w e Au to m at i c Panoramic Image Stitching using Invariant Features.  International Journal of Computer Vision. Volume 74, Number 1 \(2007\59-73    D. T u rn er A Lu cieer C  W a ts on 20 12 A n  Automated Technique for Generating Georectified Mosaics from Ultra-High Resolution Unmanned Aerial Vehicle \(UAV\magery, Based on Structure from Motion \(SfM\oint Clouds Remote Sensing  4 5\2-1410  7 L Q i n g yua n L W e n y a n g Z Le i  W  J i nl i ng a n d  L. You. "A New Approach To Fast Mosaic UAV Images International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences Vol. XXXCIII-1/C22     A   Z o m e t    S  Pel e g  1998, O c t ober A ppl y i ng  super-resolution to panoramic mosaics. In Applications of Computer Vision, 1998. WACV'98 Proceedings., Fourth IEEE Workshop on pp. 286287    J. S t ra u b  223 M odel Ba s e d Da t a  T ran sm i s s i o n   Analysis of Link Budget Requirement Reduction\224 Communications and Network 2012   S  C  Par k M.K  Par k   M. G  K a ng 2003 Super-resolution image reconstruction: a technical overview Signal processing Magazine, IEEE, 20 3 21-36 1  C a m b ri d g ei n c ol o u r  co m   N  d  Digital Image Interpolation Onlin A v a ila ble http://www.cambridgeincolour.com/tutorials/imageinterpolation.htm   M. Br y s o n  A R e id F Ra m o s    S. S u l l arie h  2010\Airborne vision-based mapping and classification of large farmland environments Journal Of Field Robotics 27\(5\655     O rbi t a l   223S ci ence, E n vi ronm e n t a l a n d T e c h n o l ogy  Satellites \226 Reliable Spacecraft Enabling Affordable Missions\224 \(2012 Corporate brochure  Biographies Abhilasha Bhatia  is a graduate student in the Department of Computer Science at the University of North Dakota. She is a committee member of Student Association of India and also actively involved with Women in Science group at UND. She holds a Bachelor of Technology degree in Computer Science from Gautam Buddh Technical University, India   Kyle Goehner  is an undergraduate student pursuing a BS in Computer Science with a minor in Mathematics at the University of North Dakota  While at UND, Kyle has received numerous honors including the competitive Odegard Scholarship \(2011\, the Microsoft Scholarship 2011\, the Fetter Scholarship \(2010\ and the UND Community of Learners Scholarship \(2009-2013\.  Kyle\222s team placed in the top 10 at the Midwest Instruction and Computing Symposium Programming Competition.  He is active in the Association for Computing Machinery \(ACM serving as the chapter president from 2011 to 2013   John Sand  is an undergraduate student in the Department of Computer Science at the University of North Dakota   Jeremy Straub is a PhD student in the Department of Computer Science at the University of North Dakota.  He currently serves as the Student Program Director for the North Dakota Space Robotics Program.  His research is presently focused on artificial intelligence for space applications.  Before returning to pursue doctoral studies Mr. Straub held progressively responsible positions in industry.  He has over 10 years professional experience in developing and managing the development of cutting-edge commercial systems, including North America\222s first commercial traffic-adaptive nav igation system.  Jeremy holds a BS in Information Technology, a BS in Business, a graduate certificate in Space Studi es, an MBA and an MS in Computer Systems and Software Design.  He is a member of the AIAA, IEEE, SPIE and SSPI 


978-1-4673-1813-6/13/$31.00 \2512013 IEEE  8 Atif Farid Mohammad is an MIT certified Systems Architect and currently a PhD student in the Computer Science department at the University of North Dakota working on Cloud Computing Security. Atif has more than sixteen years of experience in software engineering professional business systems analysis, design, application development and staff management for diversified business and educational organizations. He is a member of IEEE ACM and AST Christoffer Korvald is a MS student in the Department of Computer Science at the University of North Dakota Christoffer is the President of the local chapter of the Upsilon Pi Epsilon Honor Society. He is currently the president of the Association of Norwegian Students Abroad USA, which has over 1500 members. Christoffer holds a BA in Computer Science with a Software Engineering specialization from the University of North Dakota. He is also the Associate Director of Software for the Open Orbiter Satellite Initiative  Anders Kose Nervold is an undergraduate student at the University of North Dakota pursuing a BA in Entrepreneurship with a minor in Space Studies. Anders is currently serving as the Associate Director for Communications, Outreach and Policy for the Open Orbiter Satellite Initiative. While at UND, Anders worked as a console operator for the International Space Station Agricultural Camera \(ISSAC\.  In 2012, Anders and his business partner claimed the 1 st prize in the GIANTS international business plan competition for their planned service venture in the aerospace industry.  Anders is currently serving as the treasurer for the nationwide student organization, the Association of Norwegian Students Abroad \226 USA, which has over 1300 members.  He has also served as the local president for the Association of Norwegian Students Abroad and as the treasurer for the Interfraternity Council.  He was awarded the competitive Mueller Scholarship in 2012 and the Lillian Elsinga Outstanding Student Leader Award in 2011.  Anders is also a member of the Dakota Space Society and mentors other international students at UND    


Jorda Polo, David Carrera, Yolanda Becerra, Malgorzata Steinder  and Ian Whalley. Performance-driven task co-scheduling for  mapreduce environments. In Network Operations and Management  Symposium \(NOMS\2010 IEEE, pages 373 Ö380, 19-23 2010 12 K. Kc and K. Anyanwu, çScheduling hadoop jobs to meet deadlines  in 2nd IEEE International Conference on Cloud Computing  Technology and Science \(CloudCom\, 2010, pp. 388 Ö392 13 Xicheng Dong, Ying Wang, Huaming Liao çScheduling Mixed Real time and Non-real-time Applications in MapReduce Environment  In the proceeding of 17th International Conference on Parallel and  Distributed Systems. 2011, pp. 9 Ö 16 14 Xuan Lin, Ying Lu, J. Deogun, and S. Goddard. Real-time divisible  load scheduling for cluster computing. In Real Time and Embedded  Technology and Applications Symposium, 2007. RTAS ê07. 13th  IEEE pages 303 Ö314, 3-6 2007 15 HDFS  http://hadoop.apache.org/common/docs/current/hdfsdesign.html  16 Chen He, Ying Lu, David Swanson. çMatchmaking : A New  MapReduce Scheduling Techniqueé. In the proceeding of 2011  CloudCom, Athens, Greece, 2011, pp. 40 Ö 47 17 Matei Zaharia, Dhruba Borthakur, Joydeep Sen Sarma and Khaled  Elmeleegy, Scott Shenker, and Ion Stoica, çDelay scheduling: a  simple technique for achieving locality and fairness in cluster  schedulingé. In the proceedings of the 5th European conference on  Computer systems, 2010.  pp 265-278 18 Zhuo Tang, Junqing Zhou, Kenli Li, and Ruixuan Li "A MapReduce  task scheduling algorithm for deadline constraints.", Cluster  Computing, Vol. 15,  2012 19 Eunji Hwang, and Kyong Hoon Kim. "Minimizing Cost of Virtual  Machines for Deadline-Constrained MapReduce Applications in the  Cloud." Grid Computing \(GRID\, 2012 ACM/IEEE 13th  International Conference on. IEEE, 2012 20 Micheal Mattess, Rodrigo N. Calheiros, and Rajkumar Buyya  Scaling MapReduce Applications across Hybrid Clouds to Meet Soft  Deadlines." Technical Report CLOUDS-TR-2012-5, Cloud  Computing and Distributed Systems Laboratory, the University of  Melbourne, August 15, 2012 21 
 
11 
                
Chen He, Ying Lu, David Swanson. çReal-Time Application Scheduling in Heterogeneous MapReduce Environments Technical Report TR-UNL-CSE2012-0004, University  of Nebraska-Lincoln, 2012 Available: http://cse apps.unl.edu/facdb/publications/TR-UNL-CSE20120004.pdf 22 T. Condie, N. Conway, P. Alvaro, J. M. Hellerstein, K  Elmleegy, and R. Sears. çMapreduce Onlineé. In NSDI 2010 23 A. D. Ferguson, P. BodÌk, S. Kandula, E. Boutin, and R  Fonseca. çJockey: Guaranteed Job Latency in Data Parallel Clusters. In EuroSys, 2012 24 G. Wang, A. R. Butt, P. Pandey, and K. Gupta. çA Simulation Approach to Evaluating Design Decisions in MapReduce Setupsé. In MASCOTS 2009 25 H. Herodotou and S. Babu. Profiling, çWhat-if Analysis and Cost-based Optimization of MapReduce Programs In VLDB 2011 26 H. Herodotou, F. Dong, and S. Babu. çNo One \(Cluster Size Fits All: Automatic Cluster Sizing for Dataintensive Analyticsé. In SoCC 2011  
1544 
1544 


Figure 15  3D model of the patio test site Figure 16  Model of the patio test site combining 2D map data with 3D model data a Largest explored area b Smallest explored area Figure 14  Maps built by a pair of 2D mapping robots Yellow indicates area seen by both robots Magenta indicates area seen by one robot and Cyan represents area seen by the other a 3D point cloud built of the patio environment Figure 16 shows a model built combining 2D map data with 3D model data A four-robot mission scenario experiment was conducted at the mock-cave test site This included two 2D mapping robots a 3D modeling robot and a science sampling robot There was no time limit on the run Figure 17 shows a 3D model of the tunnel at the mock cave Figure 18 shows a model built combining 2D map data with 3D model data 7 C ONCLUSIONS  F UTURE W ORK The multi-robot coordination framework presented in this paper has been demonstrated to work for planetary cave mission scenarios where robots must explore model and take science samples Toward that end two coordination strategies have been implemented centralized and distributed Further a core communication framework has been outlined to enable a distributed heterogenous team of robots to actively communicate with each other and the base station and provide an online map of the explored region An operator interface has been designed to give the scientist enhanced situational awareness collating and merging information from all the different robots Finally techniques have been developed for post processing data to build 2  3-D models of the world that give a more accurate description of the explored space Fifteen 2D mapping runs with 2 robots were conducted The average coverage over all runs was 67 of total explorable area Maps from multiple robots have been merged and combined with 3D models for two test sites Despite these encouraging results several aspects have been identi\002ed that can be enhanced Given the short mission durations and small team of robots in the experiments conducted a simple path-to-goal costing metric was suf\002cient To use this system for more complex exploration and sampling missions there is a need for learning-based costing metrics Additional costing parameters have already been identi\002ed and analyzed for future implementation over the course of this study One of the allocation mechanisms in this study was a distributed system however task generation remained centralized through the operator interface In an ideal system robots would have the capability to generate and auction tasks based on interesting features they encounter Lastly the N P complete scheduling problem was approximated during task generation However better results could potentially 10 


Figure 17  3D model of the tunnel in the mock cave test site Figure 18  Model of the mock cave test site combining 2D map data with 3D model data be obtained by releasing this responsibility to the individual robots A CKNOWLEDGMENTS The authors thank the NASA STTR program for funding this project They would also like to thank Paul Scerri and the rCommerceLab at Carnegie Mellon University for lending hardware and robots for this research R EFERENCES  J C W erk er  S M W elch S L Thompson B Sprungman V Hildreth-Werker and R D Frederick 223Extraterrestrial caves Science habitat and resources a niac phase i study\\224 NASA Innovative Advanced Concepts NIAC Tech Rep 2003  G Cushing T  T itus and E Maclennan 223Orbital obser vations of Martian cave-entrance candidates,\224 in First Intl Planetary Caves Workshop  Carlsbad NM 2011  J W  Ashle y  M S Robinson B R Ha wk e A K Boyd R V Wagner E J Speyerer H Hiesinger and C H van der Bogert 223Lunar caves in mare deposits imaged by the LROC narrow angle camera,\224 in First Intl Planetary Caves Workshop  Carlsbad NM 2011  J W  Ashle y  A K Bo yd H Hiesinger  M S Robinson T Tran C H van der Bogert and LROC Science Team 223Lunar pits Sublunarean voids and the nature of mare emplacement,\224 in LPSC  The Woodlands,TX 2011  S Dubo wsk y  K Iagnemma and P  J Boston 223Microbots for large-scale planetary surface and subsurface exploration niac phase i.\224 NASA Innovative Advanced Concepts NIAC Tech Rep 2006  S Dubo wsk y  J Plante and P  Boston 223Lo w cost micro exploration robots for search and rescue in rough terrain,\224 in IEEE International Workshop on Safety Security and Rescue Robotics Gaithersburg MD  2006  S B K esner  223Mobility feasibility study of fuel cell powered hopping robots for space exploration,\224 Master's thesis Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2007  M T ambe D Pynadath and N Chauv at 223Building dynamic agent organizations in cyberspace,\224 IEEE Internet Computing  vol 4 no 2 pp 65\22673 March 2000  W  Sheng Q Y ang J T an and N Xi 223Distrib uted multi-robot coordination in area exploration,\224 Robot Auton Syst  vol 54 no 12 pp 945\226955 Dec 2006  A v ailable http://dx.doi.or g/10.1016/j.robot 2006.06.003  B Bro wning J Bruce M Bo wling and M M V eloso 223Stp Skills tactics and plays for multi-robot control in adversarial environments,\224 IEEE Journal of Control and Systems Engineering  2004  B P  Gerk e y and M J Mataric 223 A formal analysis and taxonomy of task allocation in multi-robot systems,\224 The International Journal of Robotics Research  vol 23 no 9 pp 939\226954 September 2004  M K oes I Nourbakhsh and K Sycara 223Heterogeneous multirobot coordination with spatial and temporal constraints,\224 in Proceedings of the Twentieth National Conference on Arti\002cial Intelligence AAAI  AAAI Press June 2005 pp 1292\2261297  M K oes K Sycara and I Nourbakhsh 223 A constraint optimization framework for fractured robot teams,\224 in AAMAS 06 Proceedings of the 002fth international joint conference on Autonomous agents and multiagent sys11 


tems  New York NY USA ACM 2006 pp 491\226493  M B Dias B Ghanem and A Stentz 223Impro ving cost estimation in market-based coordination of a distributed sensing task.\224 in IROS  IEEE 2005 pp 3972\2263977  M B Dias B Bro wning M M V eloso and A Stentz 223Dynamic heterogeneous robot teams engaged in adversarial tasks,\224 Tech Rep CMU-RI-TR-05-14 2005 technical report CMU-RI-05-14  S Thrun W  Bur g ard and D F ox Probabilistic Robotics Intelligent Robotics and Autonomous Agents  The MIT Press 2005 ch 9 pp 222\226236  H Mora v ec and A E Elfes 223High resolution maps from wide angle sonar,\224 in Proceedings of the 1985 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation  March 1985  M Yguel O A ycard and C Laugier  223Update polic y of dense maps Ef\002cient algorithms and sparse representation,\224 in Intl Conf on Field and Service Robotics  2007  J.-P  Laumond 223T rajectories for mobile robots with kinematic and environment constraints.\224 in Proceedings International Conference on Intelligent Autonomous Systems  1986 pp 346\226354  T  Kanungo D Mount N Netan yahu C Piatk o R Silverman and A Wu 223An ef\002cient k-means clustering algorithm analysis and implementation,\224 IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence  vol 24 2002  D J Rosenkrantz R E Stearns and P  M Le wis 223 An analysis of several heuristics for the traveling salesman problem,\224 SIAM Journal on Computing  Sept 1977  P  Scerri A F arinelli S Okamoto and M T ambe 223T oken approach for role allocation in extreme teams analysis and experimental evaluation,\224 in Enabling Technologies Infrastructure for Collaborative Enterprises  2004  M B Dias D Goldber g and A T  Stentz 223Mark etbased multirobot coordination for complex space applications,\224 in The 7th International Symposium on Arti\002cial Intelligence Robotics and Automation in Space  May 2003  G Grisetti C Stachniss and W  Bur g ard 223Impro ving grid-based slam with rao-blackwellized particle 002lters by adaptive proposals and selective resampling,\224 in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation  2005  227\227 223Impro v ed techniques for grid mapping with raoblackwellized particle 002lters,\224 IEEE Transactions on Robotics  2006  A Geiger  P  Lenz and R Urtasun 223 Are we ready for autonomous driving the kitti vision benchmark suite,\224 in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition CVPR  Providence USA June 2012  A N 250 uchter H Surmann K Lingemann J Hertzberg and S Thrun 2236d slam with an application to autonomous mine mapping,\224 in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation  2004 pp 1998\2262003  D Simon M Hebert and T  Kanade 223Real-time 3-d pose estimation using a high-speed range sensor,\224 in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation  1994 pp 2235\2262241 B IOGRAPHY  Ammar Husain received his B.S in Mechanical Engineering Robotics from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign He is pursuing an M.S in Robotic Systems Development at Carnegie Mellon University He has previously worked on the guidance and control of autonomous aerial vehicles His research interests lie in the 002eld of perception-based planning Heather Jones received her B.S in Engineering and B.A in Computer Science from Swarthmore College in 2006 She analyzed operations for the Canadian robotic arm on the International Space Station while working at the NASA Johnson Space Center She is pursuing a PhD in Robotics at Carnegie Mellon University where she researches reconnaissance exploration and modeling of planetary caves Balajee Kannan received a B.E in Computer Science from the University of Madras and a B.E in Computer Engineering from the Sathyabama Institute of Science and technology He earned his PhD from the University of TennesseeKnoxville He served as a Project Scientist at Carnegie Mellon University and is currently working at GE as a Senior Cyber Physical Systems Architect Uland Wong received a B.S and M.S in Electrical and Computer Engineering and an M.S and PhD in Robotics all from Carnegie Mellon University He currently works at Carnegie Mellon as a Project Scientist His research lies at the intersection of physics-based vision and 002eld robotics Tiago Pimentel Tiago Pimentel is pursuing a B.E in Mechatronics at Universidade de Braslia Brazil As a summer scholar at Carnegie Mellon Universitys Robotics Institute he researched on multi-robots exploration His research interests lie in decision making and mobile robots Sarah Tang is currently a senior pursuing a B.S degree in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Princeton University As a summer scholar at Carnegie Mellon University's Robotics Institute she researched multi-robot coordination Her research interests are in control and coordination for robot teams 12 


Shreyansh Daftry is pursuing a B.E in Electronics and Communication from Manipal Institute of Technology India As a summer scholar at Robotics Institute Carnegie Mellon University he researched on sensor fusion and 3D modeling of sub-surface planetary caves His research interests lie at the intersection of Field Robotics and Computer Vision Steven Huber received a B.S in Mechanical Engineering and an M.S in Robotics from Carnegie Mellon University He is curently Director of Structures and Mechanisms and Director of Business Development at Astrobotic Technology where he leads several NASA contracts William 223Red\224 L Whittaker received his B.S from Princeton University and his M.S and PhD from Carnegie Mellon University He is a University Professor and Director of the Field Robotics Center at Carnegie Mellon Red is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and a Fellow of the American Association for Arti\002cial Intelligence 13 


