Kanthaka: Big Data Caller Detail Record \(CDR Telecom Promotions 
  Pushpalanka Jayawardhana 
Department of Computer Science and Engineering Department of Computer Science and Engineering 
University of Moratuwa, UOM Moratuwa, Sri Lanka e-mail pushpalankajaya@gmail.com  Dhanika Perera University of Moratuwa, UOM Moratuwa, Sri Lanka e-mail dhanikaperera@gmail.com 
  Ananda Kumara 
Department of Computer Science and Engineering Department of Computer Science and Engineering 
University of Moratuwa, UOM Moratuwa, Sri Lanka e-mail makuma87@gmail.com  Amila Paranawithana University of Moratuwa, UOM Moratuwa, Sri Lanka e-mail amila1204@gmail.com  
 
Abstract 
With the competitiveness th at is growing in the telecom industry, the operators seek for ways to attract and keep the subscribers in their ne twork. Giving away attractive promotions to their subscribers is a powerful and commonly used approach in that context. With the technical limitations and the scales of the rising subscriber base, these promotions have been limited to a very narrow pattern. In order to gain a competitive advantage, the operators need new technologies and methodologies to support more attractive newer patterns of promotions, despite the challenges involved in complex analyzing procedures. In this research study, we have come up with a system to select eligible users for a particular pre 
defined promotion, analyzing the Caller Detail Records, while being scalable for a rapidly escalating subscriber base 
 Keywords-CDR; NoSQL; Big Data 
 
 I 
INTRODUCTION In the present telecom industry, value added services and promotions play a great role in the tightening competition among the service providers in escalating the subscriber base. The promotions such as 4 th minute is free after a 3minutes of an IDD call represent a common pattern in currently available promotions. These are handled by the subscribersê central office telecom switch. A switch is responsible for all basic features in placing a call, such as dial tone, signaling other te 
lecommunication equipments about the call, and maintaining a record of the call, SMS or any other event type Consider a promotion pattern example defined as; give a promotion notification from ABC snack bar, for all the subscribers who have called the ABC snack bar delivery number more than 5 times with in a month. This involves counting the number of calls made by a subscriber to a particular number. The capabilities of telecom switch is not enough to execute this, but executing this can create a big competitive advantage for a telecom operator attracting subscriber with useful and interesting promotions while increasing the income received from commercial parties such as snack bars. The time taken to give away the promotion is a critical factor th 
at a particular promotion may be effective only in a special season and should be made available on the correct time When consider the general pattern of this new promotions a technology should developed to identify who will be interested in receiving the notif ication of the promotion or who is eligible to receive the promotion. The CDRs generated by the telecom switch can be used to retrieve the relevant details and do the analysis. Also the dynamic definition and removal of the promotion should be available so that it can serve the need of the market This research study is focused on developing a system to fulfill this need, answering the challenges of scale and speed More specifically èKanthakaê is capable of analyzing 30 million records per day as for the requirement of telecom 
operatorsê subscriber base, in near real time \(Maximum 30s delay\ccording to the current settings of telecom operators these records will be fed to èKanthakaê in 10 minute intervals as they are generated. This paper presents the considered technologies in developing the system, a brief comparison of them, selected technologies, the implementation details of the system and final performance readings II. TECHNOLOGY SELECTION Considering the scale and speed requirements of the system, a literature survey was conducted on possible technologies to use. The technol ogies used in current social network sites and search engines were analyzed to identify feasible technologies that are used 
for near real time analysis  echnologies are a category emerged with the high volume data anal ysis needs raised with the hike of generation of information with the social network sites etc. So the major focus was on the technologies that fall into the category of èBig Dataê as the basic requirements of Kanthakaê express similaritie s with them.  Following is a brief discussion of the findings in the aspects of èKanthaka 
A.  Complex Event Processing \(CEP 
CEP is capable of giving a response in real time, after identifying meaningful patterns and relationships among apparently unrelated events. These engines accept queries 
2013 4th International Conference on Intelligent Systems, Modelling and Simulation 2166-0662/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ISMS.2013.40 534 


B.   Apache Hadoop Ö Map Reduce C.   Rules Engines D.   Relational Database Management Systems \(RDBMS E.   NewSQL F.  NoSQL Databases 
 provided by the user and match those queries against continuous event streams. Then it can trigger an event or an execution when the conditions specified in the queries are satisfied. The available CEP engines have proven to be up to   CEP engines analyze events that arrive within a limited amount of time \(wi ndow storage of analyzed data. So if a telecom promotion is defined to be given for one month and some failure occurs in the system, there is no way to recover the state. This cannot be tolerated in the context. Therefore CEP is not a good candidate for èKanthaka 
002 
Map-reduce is widely used in distributed computing in large clusters where the application is divided into many small fragments of work, each of which may be executed or  source map-reduce implementation which has proven performance at Amozon, Facebook and eBay for search optimizations in PetaByte scales as mentioned in Hadoop  o re than the needs of Kanthakaê. In speed-wise the latency involved in mapreduce is not effective for a data set smaller than few PetaBytes and not recommended for near real time execution  As for the need of current business world several rules engines exists to support dynami h ich is promotion strategy definiti on in context of èKanthaka From these, Drools was considered for èKanthakaê, as it is a widely adapted, production rules engine optimized for pattern matching, using Rete algorithm which is faster in  benchmark results, Drools performance is above 100s for time taken to data loading and rule firing which is below the requirements of èKanthaka  For data storing needs traditional solution is RDMS which provides ACID \(Atomicity Consistency Isolation Durability properties. When scaling these relational database systems to high volume data systems the system designer needs to address many aspects since traditional relational database systems are built to run on a single machine.  When scaling these systems sometimes the read and write throughput of the system becomes too much to handle for the system. This is mainly because relational database systems were not designed for distributed or shar ed systems and the additional overheads incur during these processed would trouble the normal operation of the system. The scaling techniques used on such a system would cost significant complexity and loss  stored in èKanthakaê system ensuring ACID properties is not essential that this cost become unreasonable This is the solution developed to scale the traditional RDBMS for the current high vol ume of data storage. It preserves ACID properties while providing easy scale up using innovative mechanisms VoltDB and NimbusDB are widely used implementations of NewSQL technology. When speed is concerned VoltDB has declared to be capable of executing 3.4 million transactions per second \(at 10ms latency\hich is satisfying the needs of èKanthakaê by far  data in-memory and supporting persistency via a commitlog written to the disk. As èKanthakaê needs to store data as long as a promotion is active while multiple promotions being active in the same time, it n eed lot of memory in such scenario. Considering this cost involved in high memory requirements, this technology was set beside NoSQL standing for çNot only SQ Lé which is an umbrella term to define a class of non relational structured storage systems that differ from classic relational database management systems. Thes e are focused on providing scalability and fast execution for growing volume of data trading off in ACID properties. Instead these databases support BASE \(Basically Availa ble Soft-state Eventuallyconsistent\, achieving scalability in a limited data model. This is enough pe rformance for èKanthaka NoSQL databases were partly influenced by two key  specific data model focused on storing and querying multicolumn data and uses a range-based partitioning scheme which allows data to be stored on multiple distributed nodes  data model, but the system is more resilient to failures thanks to a looser consistency model. The concerns of both of these include serving throughput-oriented batchprocessing jobs to latency-sensitive serving of data to end users which is more similar to the need of Kanthaka. Lot of open source implementations are available following these researches such as Cassandra, HBase, MongoDB and Hive which are widely adapted by social networking applications To select between the options available in NoSQL arena Yahoo Cloud Service Benchmar ks \(YCSB referred. Considering the read latency, update latency and elastic speed up properties Cassandra was selected as the data store for èKanthaka III. KANTHAKA SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE With the pre-mentioned tec hnology selection, the most optimized architecture selected for èKanthakaê is as Figure1 The complete system of èKanthakaê is divided into two main tiers as front-end and back-end 
535 


A.  Front-end B.   Back-end 
   Figure 1. èKanthakaê architecture 
A web based UI \(User Interface\n the frontend which is used to define the promotions. When a business administrator adds a promotion via the Web UI, it is stored in the promotion database. Thes e promotions in the database are converted in to Cassandra queries inside the Compiler module. Modular architecture pattern is followed here to ensure loose coupling within the system. Dynamic promotion addition and removal is supported to allow fast adjustments in the rules via the UI At the backend of the system, CDRs are received from the telecom operator periodically as .CSV \(Comma Separated Values Module. The preprocessor takes those CDRs from one side and the promotion queries from the other side. According the information extracted, pre-pro cessing CDRs are stored in Hashmaps in the Memory module. The Hashmaps keeps a counter for each subscriberês phone number found in CDRs in each interval and incremen t it according to the defined promotions. Then the increment is sent to Cassandra in a defined time interval as a batch, reducing the number of database updates. The objective of this is to filter the data according to the defined promotions and only store the useful data, avoiding useless usage of database space. Also as this reduces the amount of data, querying becomes faster Selecting the eligible subscribers for a particular promotion is done from the Periodic Eligibility Checking module. This module takes the promotion queries from the compiler and periodically checks whether there are any matches for those queries in the Cassandra database. If there are any matches, the module sends the MSISDN \(a number uniquely identifying a subscriber promotion server. At the same time it flags the eligible subscribers' entries of the Cassandra database to avoid reselecting the same subscribers for the same promotion With this pattern of architecture, occurrence of concurrency issues is avoided. There is no need of locking the database for reads and writes as no harm is done even if both occurs at the same time. On ce the rule is satisfied that entry is flagged and then that entry is not considered for that promotion, no matter it is updated or not after that. Also if the load for the system goes high in seasonal times etc Kanthakaê is flexible to face it adjusting the periods of rule execution and batch loading or elastically adding nodes to the cluster to balance the load. On the other hand, system is open for vast changes if needed, that Cassandra can be replaced any time, backing up its data, with few simple steps. Only the rule compiler and an adapter to load preprocessed data to the cluster are required for the new database IV.   KANTHAKA SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION The web UI of èKanthakaê system is implemented to add dynamic rules in a user friendly manner as a combination of ANDês of èORês Eg. \(Destination No = 011729729 || Destination No No of Calls > 30 || No of SMSs > 10 Connection Type = çPrepaid The above promotion basically says if the subscriber has called more than 30 minutes or sent more than 10 SMSes to 0112729729 or 0812729729; he/she is eligible for the promotion. At compiler this rule is analyzed and separates the conditions to be checked at pre-processing module and counters to be kept at database for the query. For the above example èDestination No and èConnection Typeê are considered conditions as they decide whether a CDR should increase a counter value in database. These are checked at pre-processor and the counter values are increased in a Hashmap in the memory as shown in Figure 2 
536 


 Test Environment Processor  Memory Total OS Swap 
 Figure 2.  Pre-processor implementation details Kanthakaê is implemented to co-operate with the current settings of telecom operatorsê network. Java is the language used and provides interfaces to deal with outside. It receives a CDR file with 43 attributes in a row, in 10 minutes intervals. The length of the file depends on the actual events happened in the network. At CSV file reading module it reads only the attributes needed for the active promotions in the system, checks for the identified conditions and increments Hashmap values accordingly The incremented values in Hashmaps are then loaded to Cassandra in batch wise using the special features of database. As this is just an in crement in the value, existing in the database, without reading it and updating most of the concurrency issues are avoided. With this database locking is not needed for read and writes and allows maximum use of Cassandra concurrent execution. Also as soon as an entry is selected for a promotion it is flagged and in query running only non-flagged entries are considered. Any chance of offering the same promotion twice for same subscriber is avoided with this 
V. RESULTS AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS Model name-Pentium\(R Dual-Core CPU    T4200  2.00GHz Frequency-2000.000 MHz L2cache-1024KB 2958 MiB Ubuntu - 10.04 Lucid  Kernel Linux 2.6.32.33-generic GNOME 2.30.2  4.7 GB  Figure 3.  Performance in single node With the results in figure3, a latency increase can be observed, with the number of promotions increase for the same data set. This is because more processing is needed when number of promotions increases. Also latency increases with the number of reco rds increases in the file. It is due to the time required to r ead the whole file and process it Figure 4, shows the result comparison in a cluster of two nodes against single node. Two nodes of the cluster are with the same configuration as for single node, linked via a TIA/EIA 568-b.2 category 5e cableê of 90cm length For number of records below 1million, performance was worst in two node cluster than in single node due to network latencies introduced. But for larger loads cluster is effective despite the network latencies which proves that èKanthaka can deal with seasonal hikes of network usage Figure 4.  Performance in two node cluster  Kanthakaê architecture was developed keeping in mind that the system should be highly scalable and elastic to satisfy the future needs of telecom operatorsê with the growing subscriber base. This is already available for the data storage section, but not in data reading and preprocessing. It is possible to in crease the speed of èKanthaka by parallelizing the reading of CDR files and pre processing If the CDRs can be fed into the system as several files rather than one, each file can be proce ssed in separate servers. Each server can have its own Hashmaps in memory for counters and aggregation. At updating th e Cassandra cluster from the Hashmap values, concurrency issues can occur if each server is allowed to update Cassandra at once.  If this could be 
537 


2009, pp. 165Ö178  Nanayakkara, çSiddhi: A Second Look at Complex Event Processing Architectures  large clusters vol. 51, no. 1, pp. 107 113, 2008   http://wiki.apache.org/hadoop/PoweredB  arz, çA new paradigm for Big Data,é in MEAP ed. Manning 2012, ch.1, sec.3, pp. 8-12   S. Liang, P. Fodor, H. Wan, and M. Kifer, çOpenRuleBench: an analysis of the performance of rule engines,é in 2009, pp. 601Ö610   P. Nayak, çComparison of the Rete and Treat Production Matchers for Soar \(A Summary Stanford Univ   http://blogs.illation.com/category/rules-engine/. [Accessed: 29-July  arz, çA new paradigm for Big Data,é in MEAP ed. Manning 2012, ch.1, sec.2, pp. 3-8  S. C. Satapathy, çRDBMS to NoSQL Reviewing Some Next-Generati on Non-Relational Databaseès\003 vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 15Ö30, 2011  Polytechnique FÈdÈrale De Lausanne, 2012, ch.3, pp. 47-53    http://voltdb.com/category/tags/benchmarking. [Accessed: 29-Jul   Jampani, G. Kakulapati, A Lakshman,A. Pilchin, S. Sivasubramanian, P. Vosshall, and W Vogels. Dynamo:amazonês highly ava ilable key-value store. In Proc of ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, New York NY, USA, 2007   C. Hsieh, D. A. W a llach, M. Burrows, T. Chandra, A. Fikes, and R E. Gruber. Bigtable: a distributed storage system for structured data. In Proc. of the Symposium on Operat-ing Systems Design and Implementation, Seattle, Washington 2006   B. F. Cooper, A. Silberstein, E Tam, R. Ramakrishnan, and R. Sears Benchmarking cloud serving systems with YCSB,é in 2010, pp. 143Ö154 
 implemented in èKanthaka system with proper locking mechanisms it is doing all operations of reading, updating and querying in parallel, which in return will make the execution more near real time Also the Cassandra cluster has its own optimizing techniques with memtable_limit adjustments and having separate disk for commitlogs to enhance the performance in hardware level. At deployment phase those should be considered to have most effective configuration in the cluster A CKNOWLEDGMENT  We are grateful to our internal supervisor Dr. Shahani Weerawarana, Visiting Lecturer University of Moratuwa and Mr. Thilina Anjitha, Manager Engineering, hSenid Mobile Solutions \(Pvt given at project proceedings REFERENCES   A. Pavlo, E. Paulson, A. Rasin, D J. Abadi, D. J. DeWitt, S. Madden and M. Stonebraker, çA comparison of approaches to large-scale data analysis,é in 
Proceedings of the 35th SIGMOD international conference on Management of data Communications of the ACM Big Data: principles and best practices of scalable real time data systems Proceedings of the 18th international conference on World wide web Big Data: principles and best practices of scalable real time data systems International Journal of Advanced Engineering Science and Technologies Proceedings of the 1st ACM symposium on Cloud computing 
538 


k l k t k l 
 
007 
               
005 002 k 
Figure 4 Program runtime in Amazon  We could see that GBLUE runs fast on the dataset However with less thresh hold the running time of GBLUE is much longer. The difference in 002 do not make big different in running time for all three algorithms GBLUE will terminate only when and  In the experiment we chose \004=10 6 and run GBLUE, Boost2 and Boost-12 on the dataset Amazon. For random interval query calculates the average standard deviation, the experimental results ar e shown in Figure 5   Figure 5 Range queries error in Amazon  We could see from the experiment, the accuracy of Boost-2 is below the GBLUE and Boost-12 in the dataset. On Amazon GBLUE is better than Boost-12. GBLUE has the lowest error among the three algorithms dem onstrate its effectiveness V C ONCLUSION In this paper, we present one iterative algorithm GBLUE in publishing histograms under differential privacy condition. We strictly prove that GBLUE will converge on the best linear unbiased estimator of the noisy data in range tree and provide high consistency guarantee. We analyze the advantages of it by comparing with existing solutions. Finally, the experimental results demonstrate that GBLU E has outstanding performance at range-count queries on differential privacy histograms GBLUE works for any tree-like data structure. If the dataset could be store in such data structure, the GBLUE should apply. Therefore we should study how GBLUE could be extended to other data type or even to multi-conditioned query in the future work  R EFERENCES    
S. Zhou, F. Li, Y.F. Tao, et al. Privacy Preservation in Database  2009, 32\(5  B. C. M. Fung, K. Wang, R. Chen, P. S. Yu. Privacy-preserving data publishing: A survey on recent developments. ACM Computing  4  L. Sweeney anonymity: A model for protecting privacy. International Journal on Uncertainty, Fuzziness and Knowledge Based Systems 2002, 10\( 5  A. Machanavajjhala, J. Gehrke, D Kifer, M. Venkitasubramaniam diversity: Privacy beyond anonymity. Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE Georgia, USA, 2006: 24-35  N. Li, T. Li closeness: Privacy beyond anonymity and diversity Proceedings of the 23 rd International Conference on Data Engineering ICDE  C. Dwork. Differential Privacy. Proceedings of the 33rd International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming \(ICALP Venice, Italy, 2006: 1-12  C. Dwork, F. McSherry F, K. Nissim, A. Smith.  Calibrating Noise to Sensitivity in Private Data Analysis. Proceedings of the 3th Theory of Cryptography Conference \(TCC  C. Dwork, A. Smith. Differential privacy for statistics: what we know and what we w 2009, 1\(2  X. Xiao, G. Wang, and J. Gehrke Differential privacy via wavelet  8  G. Cormode, C. M. Procopiuc, D Srivastava, T. T. L. Tran Differentially private summaries for sparse data. Proceedings of 15th International Conference on Database Theory \(ICDT Germany, 2012: 299-311  J. Xu, Z. Zhang, X. Xiao, Y. Ya ng, G. Yu.  Differentially Private Histogram Publication. Proceedings of IEEE 28th  International Conference on Data Engineering\(ICDE 2012:32-43  G. Acs, R. Chen.  Differentially Private Histogram Publishing through Lossy compression. Proceedings of the 11th  IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  M. Hay, V. Rastogi, G. Miklau, D. Suciu. Boosting the Accuracy of Differentially Private Histograms through Consistency. Proceedings of the 36th Conference of Very Large Databases \(VLDB Turkey, 2010: 1021-1032  S. Peng, Y. Yang, Z. Zhang, M Winslett, Y. Yu. DP-tree: indexing multi-dimensional data under differential privacy. Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data SIGMOD  http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Amazon+Access+Samples 
002 002 
m 004. Fewer threshold means more iterations, which lead to longer running time However Boost-2 and Boost-12ês running time is not associated with 
002 
408 
408 


the subject the person the event the time interval or the location that this statement is about who authored the sentence where and when this statement is made and whether that statement is extracted from some other internet source etc For example in the time dimension we need to capture two notions of time for a given statement 1 when that statement is published or written i.e its transaction time and 2 when the facts in the statement took place i.e its valid time The same applies for the space dimension Two space dimensions need to be extracted 1 the physical location of the person who published the statement i.e the statementês transaction location and 2 the location where the facts in the statement took place i.e its valid location The same is true for the person who wrote the statement and the person that the statement states facts about etc G Challenge 7 Data Change Frequency It is important to identify when a knowledge cube updates its Linked Data Linked Data is very dynamic in nature where its resources are added removed or updated very frequently especially in the Web of Data Therefore it is important to investigate measures of freshness for the content and interlinked resources For example the Linked Data of the cube may indicate certain properties for triples that might conîict with others that are later retrieved as new data Identifying these conîicts and creating policies of how to handle them is a crucial issue Adding provenance can be one solution to this issue However it raises another question of what version of the data to present as an answer to the query A study by Umbrich et al identiìes the characteristics of change over Linked Data and compares the change frequency in the Web of Data versus the traditional Web HTML documents  VII C ONCLUSION We present a vision for the knowledge cube architecture that motivates understanding the semantics of the data as a means for solving some of the research challenges we face today speciìcally in Big Data We motivate the use of Linked Data as a mean for achieving this target given the rich semantics that Linked Data provides We present a strawman design that sketches the possible components of a knowledge cubes system Each presented component conveys a high-level overview about its potential usage scenarios We illustrate some of the challenges and potential solutions associated with the knowledge cubes proposal Finally we demonstrate how the proposed architectural components can be used to tackle the ve pillars of Big Data A CKNOWLEDGMENT This research was partially supported by the National Science Foundation under Grants III-1117766 and IIS-0964639 and IIS-0916614 R EFERENCES  M J Franklin A Y  Hale vy  a nd D Maier   From databases to dataspaces a new abstraction for information management SIGMOD Record  vol 34 no 4 pp 27Ö33 2005  T  Berners-Lee Link ed data d esign issues  http://www w3.or g DesignIssues/LinkedData.html 2006  A Harth K Hose and R Schenk el Database techniques for link ed data management in SIGMOD Conference  2012 pp 597Ö600  O Lassila and R Swick Resource description frame w o rk RDF model and syntax speciìcation http://www.w3.org/TR/1999 REC-rdf-syntax-19990222 1999  C Bizer  T  H eath and T  Berners-Lee Link ed data t he story so f a r   Int J Semantic Web Inf Syst  vol 5 no 3 pp 1Ö22 2009  T  Heath and C Bizer  Linked Data Evolving the Web into a Global Data Space  ser Synthesis Lectures on the Semantic Web Morgan  Claypool Publishers 2011  A Carlson J Betteridge B Kisiel B Settles E H Jr  and T  Mitchell Toward an architecture for never-ending language learning in AAAI  2010  K Thirunarayan and A  Sheth Semantics-empo wered approaches to big data processing for physical-cyber-social applications Kno.e.sis Technical Report  pp 29Ö53 May 1997  O Erling Directions and challenges of semdata  i n VLDB Industry position paper  2010  E Prudêhommeaux and A  Seaborne Sparql query language for rdf  http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-sparql-query Tech Rep 2008  J Umbrich M Karnstedt J X P a rreira A Polleres and M  Hauswirth Linked data and live querying for enabling support platforms for web dataspaces in ICDE Workshops  2012 pp 23Ö28  C Bizer  T  H eath and T  Berners-Lee Link ed data t he story so f a r   Int J Semantic Web Information Systems  vol 5 no 3 pp 1Ö22 2009  J Gray  S  C haudhuri A Bosw orth A Layman D Reichart M V e nkatrao F Pellow and H Pirahesh Data cube A relational aggregation operator generalizing group-by cross-tab and sub-totals Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 1 no 1 pp 29Ö53 Jan 1997  A Carlson J Betteridge R W ang E H Jr  and T  Mitchell Coupled semi-supervised learning for information extraction in WSDM  2010 pp 101Ö110  A Y  Hale vy  P  N orvig and F  Pereira The unreasonable ef fecti v e ness of data IEEE Intelligent Systems  vol 24 no 2 pp 8Ö12 2009  C B Aranda M Arenas and  O Corcho Semantics and optimization of the sparql 1.1 federation extension in ESWC 2  2011 pp 1Ö15  E Oren R Delbru M Catasta R Cyganiak H Stenzhorn and G Tummarello Sindice.com a document-oriented lookup index for open linked data IJMSO  vol 3 no 1 pp 37Ö52 2008  T  Qin R Xiao L F ang X Xie and L Zhang  A n e f  cient location extraction algorithm by leveraging web contextual information in GIS  2010 pp 53Ö60  D Re ynolds Uncertainty reasoning for link ed data  i n URSW  2009 pp 85Ö88  D Scott and H  Uszk oreit Eds 22nd International Conference on Computational Linguistics Proceedings of the Conference  2008  D J Abadi A Marcus S Madden and K Hollenbach Sw-store a vertically partitioned dbms for semantic web data management VLDB J  vol 18 no 2 pp 385Ö406 2009  L Sidirour gos R Goncalv es M L K ersten N Nes and S  Mane gold Column-store support for rdf data management not all swans are white PVLDB  vol 1 no 2 pp 1553Ö1563 2008  D C F a ye O Cure and G Blin A surv e y of RDF storage approaches  ARIMA J  vol 15 pp 11Ö35 2012  J Le v a ndoski and M Mokbel Rdf data-centric storage  i n ICWS  2009 pp 911Ö918  N Me giddo and D S Modha  Arc A s elf-tuning lo w o v e rhead replacement cache in Second USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies  ser FAST 03 2003 pp 115Ö130  J Umbrich M Hausenblas A Hogan A Polleres and S Deck er  Towards dataset dynamics Change frequency of linked open data sources in LDOW  2010 


                                                                                                                                                            16 


   9 extreme radiation environment could induce faults i n these components that can only be cleared by the removal and reapplication of power termed off-pulsing The FM S implements an off-pulsing architecture that provide s offpulsing capabilities to clear faults in the transce iver IEM and PDU. Mechanisms are provided to allow individua l offpulsing of any of these components in Operational M ode. In addition to address a safety net for unknown fault s the FMS can reset the entire system by off-pulsing all three of these critical components simultaneously in Safe Mo de In general, the off-pulsing of any single component is handled in Operational Mode as a response to a less severe fault while the off-pulsing of all three components is ha ndled in Safe Mode as a response to the expiration of the ha rdware command loss timer i.e the spacecraft has not re ceived a specific command from the ground in 3.6 days  All off-pulse requests are routed through the PDU with the PDU implementing a specific hardware command sequen ce for each off-pulse type The off-pulse mechanism is  designed to be fault-tolerant with a single fault r esulting in at most a single off-pulse cycle  The FM architec ture utilizes the following off-pulse requests: IEM requ est to offpulse transceiver via software command loss timer SWCLT    t r a n s c e i v e r  r e q u e s t  t o  o f f p u l s e  I E M   v i a  RF CCD command transceiver request of off-pulse PDU via RF CCD command and hardware command loss timer HWCLT request to off-pulse PDU IEM and transcei ver as shown in Figure  8   Figure 8:  Top Level Off-Pulsing Architecture  2.4.2.3  Limited Instrument Fault Management The final high-level requirement that drives the mo des and safing approach is limited instrument FM.  The FMS is decoupled from the science instruments Instrument FM  is limited to the monitoring of instrument power draw power down request and heartbeat The instrument generat es and provides the spacecraft with status information in the Interface Transfer Format ITF Instrument status includes power-down requests and an instrument aliveness cou nter An instrument power-down request or frozen alivenes s indicator results in the removal of operational pow er from the instrument within a pre-defined number of secon ds In the event of an instrument over-current/over-power condition the instrument is immediately powered of f with no advanced warning Over-current/over-power protec tion is handled with a combination of autonomy rules and  resettable circuit breakers located in the PDU To protect against hard shorts the PDU monitors current and i f the load current exceeds a threshold for 4 ms, the circ uit breaker opens the switch and power is immediately removed f rom the instrument Autonomy rules protect against soft  shorts by monitoring a lower power threshold for a longer duration  In addition spacecraft anomalous conditions such a s low battery state of charge low voltage sense or exte nded loss of communication result in all instruments being immediately powered off with no advanced shutdown warning Therefore instruments must be designed to  be immediately powered-off from any internal mode in t he event of an instrument over-current or spacecraft a nomalous condition For a violation of the spin-axis Sun-lin e angle the instruments receive a 15 second shutdown warnin g before being powered off. Any additional FM measure s that are specific to the instruments are the responsibil ity of the instruments themselves 2.4.3  Ground Intervention Concept The high-level requirement for limited on-board FM drives the ground intervention concept In an effort to ke ep the FMS as simple as possible on-board FM is minimized  by taking advantage of inherent mission design charact eristics and spacecraft design decisions The spacecraft are  spin stabilized with spin-axis 15-27 deg off the Sun Th e nearSun pointed attitude is the only attitude required to collect the prime science measurements and requires only pe riodic precession maneuvers every ~21days for the duration of the mission in order to be maintained The periodic pre cession maneuvers are dictated by the Earthís orbital motio n around the Sun with maneuvers performed when the total Su n offset angle reaches maximum value This orbit offe rs a number of design advantages 1 when combined with antenna coverage out to 70 deg from both sides of s pin-axis frequent ground contacts more than 1/day with neg ligible communication delays are possible, 2\ the near-Sun pointed attitude ensures adequate power generation when att itude is maintained within the maximum offset angle and 3 the inherently stable spin state requires infrequent ad justments to maintain the spacecraftís orientation allowing for openloop attitude control  Since the RBSP spacecraft are near-Sun pointing spi nners inherently stable with open-loop attitude control  there is no on-board capability for the G&C subsystem to autonomously point the spacecraft which significan tly reduces the amount of on-board autonomy required I n general, on-board autonomy is comprised of dedicate d rules that take simple actions such as powering off a com ponent or resetting a component. When possible, the FMS me asures are allocated to hardware to reduce the size of the on-board autonomy rule set Finally the frequent ground con tacts with negligible communication delays allow the burd en for fault correction and recovery to be placed on the g round 


   10 3  Verification  As a distributed system the verification of the RB SP FM requirements was also distributed Verification of subsystem-level FM requirements were captured in th e various subsystem verification plans with buy-in f rom the RBSP FM lead engineer Verification of system-level  FM requirements were performed on the spacecraft and l ed by the FM lead engineer  Requirements for the RBSP mission are organized hierarchically, based upon the missionís product br eakdown structure as shown in Figure 9 Requirements are d efined from the mission-level directly to the element-leve l in order to avoid the creation of too many documentation lay ers In addition to the requirement level the requirements  tree is also organized according to requirement type i.e  performance/measurement mission assurance environmental, and interface requirements  Figure 9: RBSP Mission Product Breakdown Structure  The FM requirements are distributed and flow down f rom the Mission Requirements Document MRD to the element-level and then to the subsystem-level The FM requirements are categorized as performance/measure ment requirements which are captured in various requirem ents documents or as interface requirements which are ca ptured in interface control documents ICD Figure 10 sho ws the hierarchy of FM requirements and the categorization  of those requirements   Figure 10: Hierarchy of Fault Management Requirements  Although FM requirements may be verified using test  analysis, demonstration, inspection, or some combin ation of these the preferred verification method for FM requirements is test. The verification of FM requir ements is accomplished through an integrated hierarchical app roach comprised of a series of verification activities D uring the Integration and Test I&T phase verification prog resses from individual components and subsystems to integr ated segments and upward to the entire mission system Individual components are verified by their provide rs against the corresponding component and subsystemlevel fault management requirements The FM lead engineer  has oversight authority over these lower-level FM verif ication activities and has access to all generated verifica tion records and reports. In addition, the FM team performs syst em-level scenario testing and supports mission simulations a nd I&T special tests in order to verify the system-level  i.e mission- and element-level\ FM requirements  The FM team has oversight authority over lower-leve l FM verification activities and reviewed the verificati on plans for spacecraft subsystem and science instrument teams which were allocated FM requirements to ensure that FM requirements are adequately verified FM requiremen ts allocated to hardware \(i.e., spacecraft or ground are verified during box-level and subsystem-level acceptance tes t The individual subsystem teams are responsible for desi gning and running tests that verify these subsystem-level  fault management requirements FM requirements allocated to spacecraft flight software or ground software are v erified by independent acceptance test at the flight software testbed level The Independent Acceptance Test IAT team i s responsible for designing and running the tests tha t verify these subsystem-level FM requirements The tests us ed to perform the verification are typically black box requirements-based tests FM requirements allocated  to spacecraft rule-based autonomy are verified by the autonomy team and autonomy developers on the flight  software testbeds, high-fidelity hardware simulator s, and the spacecraft. The autonomy test campaign is comprised of two phases autonomy unit test phase and autonomy path verification phase Autonomy unit testing is perfor med on the flight software testbeds early in the autonomy development and involves standalone testing of the individual autonomy objects i.e rule macro com puted telemetry, and storage variable\. The goal of the u nit testing is to identify defects such as coding errors before  the autonomy objects are assembled into a complete deli verable autonomy system.  At the conclusion of the unit tes t phase the autonomy system is delivered to the spacecraft and the path verification phase begins Note the autonomy path verification testing is on the leading-edge of the FM scenario testing The autonomy path verification t esting takes place during spacecraft I&T with the purpose of exercising the autonomy system on flight hardware a nd verifying all of the sensor interfaces i.e senso r data used by autonomy rules and computed telemetry and all 


   11 commands emitted by the autonomy system to the flig ht hardware from autonomy macros The paths are independently verified on both spacecraft rather th an endorsing a verification by similarity approach FM requirements allocated to the ground system are ver ified by operational procedure, operational constraint, or b y mission simulation Verification of requirements using oper ational procedure are performed by inspection of the signed off procedure document Verification of requirements us ing operational constraint are performed by inspection of the RBSP Operations Constraint Document Finally verification of requirements using mission simulati ons are performed by test at the observatory level or the h igh fidelity hardware simulator  The FM team has overall responsibility for coordina ting the mission- and element-level verification plans and a ctivities The resulting verification program ensures that the  FMS satisfies the functional requirements and is in con formance with the mission and operational concepts defined f or FM The FM team is responsible for establishing, review ing, and approving all FM verification activities and method s planned for requirements specified at the mission and element-level. All mission- and element-level funct ional and performance requirements will be verified by one or  more appropriate methods prior to launch with closure s tatus tracked in the DOORS requirements database system Whenever possible FM requirements at the mission and element-level are verified by test The FM team is responsible for designing and performing system-lev el scenario tests that verify the mission- and element level FM requirements In addition some FM requirements are  verified using mission simulations which are led by  the Mission Operations Team MOT or I&T special tests which are led by the I&T Team. System-level scenari o tests are developed, designed, and performed by the FM te am to verify mission and element-level FM requirements  The system-level FM tests are scenario based tests that  are similar to mission simulations except that one or m ore faults are injected during the simulation the scenario te sts are black-box requirements-based tests For each scena rio the test must 1 prove that the spacecraft can perform  the scenario correctly \(i.e., without fault injection and \(2\ prove that the spacecraft can recover from the injected f ault to a state in which the MOT can return the spacecraft to nominal operations  As a distributed system the FM test campaign is di vided into two distinct phases as shown in Figure 11 Th e first phase is the subsystem-level test phase in which th e individual subsystems design and run tests to verif y and close their subsystem-level FM requirements \(i.e hardware flight software and autonomy At the conclusion o f the subsystem-level test phase the subsystems are cons idered ready to be delivered to spacecraft I&T and are ava ilable for the second phase of the FM test campaign The secon d phase is the system-level test phase that exercises the FMS as a whole on both spacecraft during I&T. The syste m-level tests serve two purposes 1 verification of missi on and element-level FM requirements and 2 validation of  subsystem-level FM requirements Note  subsystem-l evel FM requirements are verified and closed at the subs ystemlevel prior to I&T      Figure 11:  Fault Protection Test Campaign Overview   System-level scenario testing is performed by the F M team and consists of a series of spacecraft scenarios T he objective of the system-level scenario tests is to verify mission and element-level FM requirements in addi tion many of the subsystem-level requirements are also v alidated as a result of verifying the system-level requireme nts The FM scenario testing consists of three tiers of test ing Tier one tests must be performed on both spacecraft two times baseline and launch site are included on the incompressible test list and are regression tested  on both spacecraft if a hardware configuration change or a significant FSW change affects the test. Tier two t ests must be performed on both spacecraft at least once \(base line\, are included on the incompressible test list and are r egression tested on the high-fidelity hardware simulator or t he affected spacecraft if a hardware configuration cha nge or a significant FSW change affects the test Finally t ier three tests are performed on both spacecraft once \(baseli ne  The baseline configuration for FM scenario testing is when the spacecraft bus is complete with a goal of havi ng instruments integrated The test platform for the b aseline FM testing is I&T; this allows the FMS \(i.e., space craft bus hardware C&DH flight software autonomy and ground/missions operations\ to be exercised as a wh ole and permits the verification of all interfaces between components all autonomy commands via autonomy macros to flight hardware and flight software and  all hardware i.e PDU commands to flight hardware T he high fidelity hardware simulator section 3.1 is u sed whenever possible to dry-run the scenario tests to identify and correct procedural errors and for regression te sting of tier two tests  


   12 The scenario tests are designed through a process o f grouping the FM requirements into sequences. The pr ocess is performed using a requirements-to-test allocatio n matrix in which each requirement is assigned to a test or group of tests The selection of which tests form the incomp ressible test suite is performed through consultation and it eration of the core test list with the systems engineering tea m Following the allocation of all requirements to the  various tests, individual test plans are developed that inc lude a set of starting conditions and high-level outline of test and verification activities. Each test plan includes th e following information test name document number tier desig nation test objective, requirements fully or partially ver ified by the test, minimum spacecraft component set required to run the test, initial conditions for the test, required sup port, planning notes, and the high-level test outline   Figure 12 shows the activity flow for each scenario  test during the system-level test phase  Following the development of the system-level verification and te st plan individual test procedures are generated for each t est. A test procedure is a configuration managed document that describes the detailed information necessary to run  the test on the spacecraft and the list of steps taken to ex ecute the test. The test procedure is also the as-run documen t used by the test conductor or FM lead engineer to document the major milestones of the test When possible the te st procedure will be dry run on the high-fidelity simu lators to identify and correct procedural errors. The test pr ocedure is then executed on the observatory during I&T \(eventu ally the procedure is run on both spacecraft Any deviation s from the test procedure are documented within the test p rocedure as red lines \(i.e., permanent changes to the test p rocedure\ or black lines i.e changes for the current procedur e If the test fails due to test procedure errors the test p rocedure is corrected and the process is repeated However if the test fails due to an implementation error in flight hard ware flight software or autonomy a formal discrepancy is documented in the Anomaly/Problem Failure Reporting  APFR system any changes or corrections to autono my flight software, or hardware are implemented and th e test is re-run until the anomaly is resolved and the test r uns to successful completion After the completion of each  test a review of the test procedure as-run information a nd spacecraft data is performed by a member of the FM team Following the review of the test data, the FM lead engineer signs the test procedure confirming that the test w as run and the review accurately described the success or fail ure of the test  n	\r\n\n  n        n   n\r     n r\r\n\r r\n\r r\r\n\r    0/-1  23  n  4      Figure 12:  Fault Protection System-Level Test Proc ess Flow 4  CONCLUSION The RBSP spacecraft are designed to operate for mul tiple years in the extreme environment of the Earthís rad iation belts.  To facilitate this mission, a robust fault management system is integrated into the system architecture f rom the earliest stages of the design.  This fault manageme nt system was rigorously tested during I&T and the results o f this testing show that the RBSP spacecraft are protected against on-orbit fault conditions and therefore have a hig h probability of meeting the mission objectives  The  RBSP fault management design, implementation and test ap proach demonstrate that robust fault-tolerant designs are  achievable for complex systems operating in harsh environments even for systems with only limited or  selective redundancy 5  REFERENCES  1  J   S t r a t t o n  a n d  N   F o x   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P robes RBSP\ Mission Overview Proc. of the 2012 IEEE Aerospace Conf. Vol. 027 No. xxx Big Sky, Montana USA, March 2012. The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723   2  K   K i r b y  e t  a l   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P r o b e s   R B SP Spacecraft and impact of environment on observatory  design Proc. of the 2012  IEEE Aerospace Conf.,Vol  027 No. 1759 Big Sky, Montana, USA, March 2012 The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723  


WeD6 \226 Queuing Theory Visitor Center   Chair Starobinski, David Boston University On the Channel-Sensitive Delay Behavior of LIFO-Backpressure 715  Si, Wei Boston University  Starobinski, David Boston University  Transient Flow Level Models for In terference-Coupled Cellular Networks 723  326hmann, David Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fehske, Albrecht Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fettweis, Gerhard Technische Universit\344t Dresden  When do Redundant Requests Reduce Latency 731  Shah, Nihar B University of California, Berkeley  Lee, Kangwook University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  Scheduling in Cooperative Cognitive Radio Networks 739  Das, Dibakar Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Abouzeid, Alhussein A Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Codreanu, Marian University of Oulu  Batch Job Scheduling for Reducing Water Footprints in Data Center 747  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Bits through Bufferless Queues 755  Tavan, Mehrnaz Rutgers University  Yates, Roy D Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  ThA1 \226 Information-Theoretic Security Library   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois Networked Cyber-Physical Systems: Interdep endence, Resilience and Information Exchange 763  Zhu, Quanyan Princeton University  Bushnell, Linda University of Washington  On the Secure Interference Channel 770  Somekh-Baruch, Anelia Bar-Ilan University  How Many Antennas does a Cooperative Jammer Need for Achieving the Degrees of Freedom of Multiple Antenna Gaussian Channels in the Presence of an Eavesdropper 774  Nafea, Mohamed Pennsylvania State University  Yener, Aylin Pennsylvania State University  Distributed Consensus with Byzantine Adversaries n/a  Liu, Xiangyang University of Maryland  Gao, Peixin University of Maryland  Baras, John University of Maryland  


Why Cyber-Insurance Contracts Fail to Reflect Cyber-Risks 781  Schwartz, Galina University of California, Berkeley  Shetty, Nikhil Insieme Networks  Walrand, Jean University of California, Berkeley  Performance-Aware IP Address Randomi zation in Moving Target Defense n/a  Clark, Andrew University of Washington  Sun, Kun George Mason University  Poovendran, Radha University of Washington  ThA2 \226 Distributed Stor age: Theory and Practice Solarium   Chair Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois Explicit Maximally Recoverable Codes with Locality n/a  Gopalan, Parikshit Microsoft Research  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  Jenkins, Bob Microsoft Research  Yekhanin, Sergey Microsoft Research  On the Interior Points of the Storage-Repa ir Bandwidth Tradeoff of Regenerating Codes 788  Sasidharan, Birenjith Indian Institute of Science  Kumar, P. Vijay Indian Institute of Science  A Family of Locally Recoverable Codes n/a  Tamo, Itzhak University of Maryland  Barg, Alexander University of Maryland  Locality and Availability in Distributed Storage n/a  Rawat, Ankit Singh University of Texas, Austin  Papailiopoulos, Dimitris University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Vishwanath, Sriram University of Texas, Austin  Data Secrecy in Distributed Storage Systems under Exact Repair n/a  El Rouayheb, Salim Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago  Goparaju, Sreechakra Princeton University  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Calderbank, A. Robert Duke University  LRC Erasure Coding in Windows Storage: From Cloud to Desktop n/a  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  ThA3 \226 Information Theory II Butternut   Chair  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University Matroid Bounds on the Region of Entropic Vectors 796  Li, Congduan Drexel University  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University  Weber, Steven Drexel University  


Groups and Information Inequalities in 5 Variables 804  Markin, Nadya Nanyang Technological University  Thomas, Eldho Nanyang Technological University  Oggier, Fr\351d\351rique Nanyang Technological University  Superadditivity of Quantum Channel Coding Rate with Finite Blocklength Quantum Measurements 810  Chung, Hye Won Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Zheng, Lizhong Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Information Rates in the Optica l Nonlinear Phase Noise Channel 818  Dar, Ronen Tel Aviv University  Shtaif, Mark Tel Aviv University  Feder, Meir Tel Aviv University  An Outer Bound of the Capacity Re gion of Biometric Systems under Keys, Secrets, and Privacy Requirements 824  Lai, Po-Hsiang Washington University in Saint Louis  O'Sullivan, Joseph A Washington University in Saint Louis  Generalized Cut-Set Bounds for Broadcast Networks 832  Salimi, Amir Texas A&M University  Liu, Tie Texas A&M University  Cui, Shuguang Texas A&M University  ThA4 \226 Sensor Networks Pine   Chair Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis How to Sleep, Control and Transfer Data in an Energy Constrained Wireless Sensor Network 839  Venkateswaran, Vijay Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Kennedy, Irwin O Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Network Observability and Localization of the So urce of Diffusion based on a Subset of Nodes 847  Zejnilovic, Sabina Carnegie Mellon University  Gomes, Jo\343o Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  The Central Detection Officer Problem: SALS A Detector and Performance Guarantees 853  Li, Xiao University of California, Davis  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  A New Graph Model with Random Edge Values: Connectivity and Diameter 861  La, Richard J University of Maryland, College Park  Kabkab, Maya University of Maryland, College Park  


ThA5 \226 Source Coding Lower Level   Chair Cohen, Asaf Ben-Gurion University Correlated Sources with Actions 869  Sabag, Oron Ben Gurion University  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University  Cohen, Asaf Ben Gurion University  Non-Asymptotic Bounds on Fixed Leng th Source Coding for Markov Chains 875  Hayashi, Masahito Nagoya University  Watanabe, Shun University of Tokushima  Efficient Similarity Queri es via Lossy Compression 883  Ochoa, Idoia Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Results on the Optimal Memory-Assisted Univer sal Compression Performance for Mixture Sources 890  Beirami, Ahmad Georgia Institute of Technology  Sardari, Mohsen Georgia Institute of Technology  Fekri, Faramarz Georgia Institute of Technology  Interactive Function Computation with Reconstruction Constraints 896  Ebrahim Rezagah, Farideh Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Erkip, Elza Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Distortion Rate Function of Sub-Nyquist Sa mpled Gaussian Sources Corrupted by Noise 901  Kipnis, Alon Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea J Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Eldar, Yonina C Technion - Israel Institute of Technology  ThB1 \226 Dynamic Games Library   Chair Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan Joint Control of Transmission Power and Channel Switching against Adaptive Jamming 909  Wang, Qingsi University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  Characterization and Computation of Loca l Nash Equilibria in Continuous Games 917  Ratliff, Lillian J University of California, Berkeley  Burden, Samuel A University of California, Berkeley  Sastry, S. Shankar University of California, Berkeley  Multiagent Inverse Reinforcement Learni ng for Zero-Sum Stochastic Games n/a  Beling, Peter University of Virginia  Cogill, Randy University of Virginia  Lin, Xiaomin University of Virginia  A Dynamic VCG Mechanism for Random Allocation Spaces 925  Balandat, Maximilian University of California, Berkeley  Tomlin, Claire J University of California, Berkeley  


Nonstationary Resource Sharing with Imperfect Binary Feedback An Optimal Design Framework for Cost Minimization 932  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  ThB2 \226 Topics in Information Theory III Solarium   Chair Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  De Novo RNA Shotgun Sequencing: Fundamental Limits n/a  Kannan, Sreeram University of Illinois  Pachter, Lior University of California, Berkeley  Tse, David University of California, Berkeley  Queue Length as an Implicit Communication Channel 940  Park, Se Yong University of California, Berkeley  Sahai, Anant University of California, Berkeley  Polytope Codes for Large-Alphabet Channels 948  Fan, Xiaoqing Cornell University  Wagner, Aaron B Cornell University  Ahmed, Ebad LSI Corporation  Data-Driven Management of Infrastructure Networks n/a  Rajagopal, Ram Stanford University A Derivation of the Asymptotic Random-Coding Prefactor 956  Scarlett, Jonathan University of Cambridge  Martinez, Alfonso Universitat Pompeu Fabra  Guill\351n i F\340bregas, Albert ICREA and Universitat Pompeu Fabra  ThB3 \226 Discrete Event Systems Butternut   Chair  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University On Exploiting Algebraic Structure in Control of Finite State Machines 962  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University  A Bridge between Decentralized and Coordination Control 966  Komenda, Jan Czech Academy of Sciences  Masopust, Tom\341\232 Czech Academy of Sciences  A Model Checking Framework for Linear Time Invariant Switching Systems using Structural Systems Analysis 973  Ramos, Guilherme Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Pequito, S\351rgio Carnegie Mellon University and Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Aguiar, A. Pedro University of Porto  Ramos, Jaime Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Kar, Soummya Carnegie Mellon University  


Robust Supervisory Control of Ne tworked Discrete Event Systems 981  Wang, Fei Tongji University  Shu, Shaolong Tongji University  Lin, Feng Wayne State University  Probability Bounds for False Alarm Anal ysis of Fault Detection Systems 989  Hu, Bin University of Minnesota  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  ThB4 \226 Network Inference Pine   Chair Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Organizer\(s Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin Robust Structure Estimation of M aximum Causal Entropy Processes 996  Ziebart, Brian D University of Illinois, Chicago  The Squared-Error of Generalized LASSO: A Precise Analysis 1002  Oymak, Samet California Institute of Technology  Thrampoulidis, Christos California Institute of Technology  Hassibi, Babak California Institute of Technology  Localized Minimax Complexity of Stochastic Convex Optimization n/a  Zhu, Yuancheng University of Chicago  Lafferty, John University of Chicago  Non-Convex Inference via Alternatin g Minimization: Provable Guarantees n/a  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Loop Calculus and Bootstrap-Belief Propagatio n for Perfect Matchings on Arbitrary Graphs n/a  Chertkov, Michael Los Alamos National Laboratory  Gelfand, Andrew University of California, Irvine  Shin, Jinwoo Massachusetts Institute of Technology  ThB5 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems I Lower Level   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  A Rank Minimization Algorithm to Enhance Semidefinite Rel axations of Optimal Power Flow 1010  Louca, Raphael Cornell University  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  Bitar, Eilyan Cornell University  Power System Structure and Confidenti ality Preserving Transformation of Optimal Power Flow Model 102 1  Borden, Alexander R University of Wisconsin, Madison  Molzahn, Daniel K University of Michigan  Lesieutre, Bernard C University of Wisconsin, Madison  Ramanathan, Parmeswaran University of Wisconsin, Madison  


Incentive Design for Direct Load Control Programs 1029  Alizadeh, Mahnoosh University of California, Davis  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 1 n/a  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Pandzic, Hrvoje University of Washington  Qiu, Ting University of Washington  Wang, Yishen University of Washington  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 2 n/a  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Xue, Mengran University of Michigan  Almassalkhi, Mads Root3 Technologies Ltd  Felder, Jennifer University of Michigan  The Redistribution of Power Flow in Cascading Failures 1037  Lai, Chengdi California Institute of Technology  Low, Steven H California Institute of Technology  ThB6 \226 Multiuser Detecti on and Estimation Theory Visitor Center   Chair Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University Phase and Power Estimation for Per-Hop MultiUser Detection in Frequency-Hopping Systems 1045  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Royster, Thomas C MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Non-Coherent Multi-User Detection of DPSK Signals after Differential Demodulation 1052  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  The Incidence and Cross Methods for Efficient Radar Detection 1059  Fish, Alexander University of Sydney  Gurevich, Shamgar University of Wisconsin, Madison  Capacity Analysis of Uplink Multi-User SC-FDMA System with Frequency-Dependent I/Q Imbalance 1067  Ishaque, Aamir RWTH Aachen University  Sakulkar, Pranav RWTH Aachen University  Ascheid, Gerd RWTH Aachen University  Reliable Uncoded Communication in th e Underdetermined SIMO MAC with Low-Complexity Decoding 1 075  Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  


ThC1 \226 Networks, Ga mes and Algorithms III Library   Chair  Williams, Steven R University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Competitive Equilibrium in Electricity Markets wi th Heterogeneous users and Ramping Constraints n/a  Malekian, Azarakhsh Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Ozdaglar, Asu Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Wei, Ermin Massachusetts Institute of Technology  A Lyapunov Optimization Approach to Repeated Stochastic Games 1082  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  Road Traffic Networks: Optimal Transport and Incentives 1090  Mandayam, Chinmoy V Stanford University  Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  Online Stochastic Ad Allocation: Simu ltanenous and Bicriteria Approximations n/a  Mirrokni, Vahab Google Research  A Processor-Sharing Heuristic fo r Multipath Congestion Control n/a  Walton, Neil Stuart University of Amsterdam  Anselmi, Jonatha Basque Center for Applied Mathematics  D'Auria, Bernardo Universidad Carlos III de Madrid  ThC2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing I Solarium   Chair Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Asymptotic Optimality Results for Controlled Sequential Estimation 1098  Atia, George University of Central Florida  Aeron, Shuchin Tufts University  Even Symmetric Parallel Linear Determinis tic Interference Channels are Inseparable 1106  Mukherjee, Pritam University of Maryland  Tandon, Ravi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Ulukus, Sennur University of Maryland  Estimation Over the Collision Channel: Structural Results 1114  Vasconcelos, Marcos M University of Maryland  Martins, Nuno C University of Maryland  Physical Watermarking and Authenti cation in Cyber-Physical Systems n/a  Weerakkody, Sean Carnegie Mellon University  Mo, Yilin California Institute of Technology  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  


Distributed Linear Estimation of Dynamic Random Fields 1120  Das, Subhro Carnegie Mellon University  Moura, Jos\351 M.F Carnegie Mellon University  ThC3 \226 Active Learning, Search and Visual Recognition Butternut   Chair Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Co-Chair Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Working Title: Learning to Recognize Everything n/a  Berg, Alexander C University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill  Visual Attributes for Enhanced Human-Machine Communication 1126  Parikh, Devi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Active Learning of Linear Separators n/a  Balcan, Maria Florina Georgia Institute of Technology  Discriminative Value of Information for Structured Prediction n/a  Taskar, Ben University of Washington  Extrinsic Jensen\226Shannon Divergence and Noisy Bayesian Active Learnin\g 1128  Naghshvar, Mohammad University of California, San Diego  Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Chaudhuri, Kamalika University of California, San Diego  Universal Random Number Generators for Finite Memory Sources n/a  Seroussi, Gadiel Universidad de la Rep\372blica, Uruguay  Weinberger, Marcelo J Center for Science of Information  ThC4 \226 Information Theory III Pine   Chair Avestimehr, Salman Cornell University Approximate Capacity of the Two-User MI SO Broadcast Channel with Delayed CSIT 1136  Vahid, Alireza Cornell University  Maddah-ali, Mohammad Ali Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  K-User Symmetric MIMO Distributed Full-D uplex Network via Wireless Side-Channels 1144  Bai, Jingwen Rice University  Dick, Chris Xilinx, Inc  Sabharwal, Ashutosh Rice University  Degrees of Freedom Region for MIMO Interferen ce Channel with Limite d Receiver Cooperation 1152  Ashraphijuo, Mehdi Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  


Degrees of Freedom of the MIMO Rank-Def icient Interference Channel with Feedback 1159  Chae, Sung Ho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Suh, Changho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Chung, Sae-Young Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  On the Optimality of Trea ting Interference as Noise 1166  Geng, Chunhua University of California, Irvine  Naderializadeh, Navid Cornell University  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  Jafar, Syed A University of California, Irvine  Asymmetric Compute-and-Forward 1174  Ntranos, Vasilis University of Southern California  Cadambe, Viveck R Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Nazer, Bobak Boston University  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  ThC5 \226 Pricing and Contractive Mechanisms for Wireless Data Services Lower Level   Chair Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Smart Data Pricing for the Internet: Agenda & Research Directions 1182  Sen, Soumya University of Minnesota  Market Structures for Wirele ss Service with Shared Spectrum 1188  Berry, Randall Northwestern University  Honig, Michael Northwestern University  Subramanian, Vijay Northwestern University  Nguyen, Thanh Northwestern University  Vohra, Rakesh Northwestern University  Fostering Wireless Spectrum Sharing via Subsidization 1192  Yuksel, Murat University of Nevada, Reno  Quint, Thomas University of Nevada, Reno  Guvenc, Ismail Florida International University  Saad, Walid University of Miami  Kapucu, Naim University of Central Florida  Stable Real-Time Pricing and Sc heduling for Serving Opportunistic users with Deferrable Loads 1200  Dalkilic, Ozgur Ohio State University  Eryilmaz, Atilla Ohio State University  Lin, Xiaojun Purdue University  Implementing Sponsored Conten t in Wireless Data Networks 1208  Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  


ThC6 \226 Deletion Codes: Bounds and Applications Visitor Center   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dolecek, Lara University of Califo rnia, Los Angeles  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois A Practical Framework for Efficient File Synchronization 1213  Bitouz\351, Nicolas University of California, Los Angeles  Sala, Frederic University of California, Los Angeles  Tabatabaei Yazdi, S.M. Sadegh University of California, Los Angeles  Dolecek, Lara University of California, Los Angeles  An Improvement of the Deletion Channel Capacity Upper Bound 1221  Rahmati, Mojtaba Arizona State University  Duman, Tolga M Arizona State University and Bilkent University  On the Number of Subsequences Obtained via the Deletion Channel n/a  Yuvalal, Liron The Open University of Israel  Langberg, Michael State University of New York, Buffalo Efficient Interactive Algorithms for F ile Synchronization under General Edits 1226  Venkataramanan, Ramji University of Cambridge  Narasimha Swamy, Vasuki University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  ThD1 \226 Sparse Data Analysis Library   Chair Studer, Christoph Rice University Recovering Sparse Low-Rank Bloc ks in Tandem Mass Spectrometry n/a  Studer, Christoph Rice University  Pope, Graeme ETH Zurich  Navarro, Pedro Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz  Baraniuk, Richard Rice University  GROTESQUE: Noisy Group Testing \(Quick and Efficient 1234  Cai, Sheng The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Jahangoshahi, Mohammad Sharif University of Technology  Bakshi, Mayank Institute of Network Coding  Jaggi, Sidharth The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Compressed Sensing of Streaming Data 1242  Freris, Nikolaos M 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326\347al, Orhan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  A Fast Hadamard Transform for Signals with Sub-Linear Sparsity 1250  Scheibler, Robin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Haghighatshoar, Saeid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  


Sample-Optimal Average-Case Sparse Fo urier Transform in Two Dimensions 1258  Ghazi, Badih Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Hassanieh, Haitham Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Indyk, Piotr Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Katabi, Dina Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Price, Eric Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Shi, Lixin Massachusetts Institute of Technology Guarantees of Total Variation Mi nimization for Signal Recovery 1266  Cai, Jian-Feng University of Iowa  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  ThD2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing II Solarium   Chair Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Adaptive Stochastic Convex Optimization Over Networks 1272  Towfic, Zaid J University of California, Los Angeles  Sayed, Ali H University of California, Los Angeles  A Routing Problem in a Simple Queueing Syst em with Non-Classical Information Structure 1278  Ouyang, Yi University of Michigan  Teneketzis, Demosthenis University of Michigan  On the Necessary Conditions for Distributed Observability n/a  Doostmohammadian, Mohammadreza Tufts University  Khan, Usman A Tufts University  Sequential Supervised Learning n/a  Wang, Joseph Boston University  Trapeznikov, Kirill Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Fusion Center Feedback for Quasi-Decentr alized Estimation in Sensor Networks 1285  Michelusi, Nicol\362 University of Southern California  Mitra, Urbashi University of Southern California  ThD3 \226 Information Theory IV Butternut   Chair Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Inst. of Tech, Madras The Gaussian Two-Way Diamond Channel 1292  V, Prathyusha Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Thangaraj, Andrew Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Capacity to within a Constant Gap fo r a Class of Interference Relay Channels 1300  Bassi, Germ\341n Sup\351lec  Piantanida, Pablo Sup\351lec  Yang, Sheng Sup\351lec  


The State-Dependent Broadcast Channel with Cooperation 1307  Dikstein, Lior Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Steinberg, Yossef Technion - Israel Institute of Technology An Analysis of the Joint Compute-and-Forward Decoder for the Binary-Input Two-Way Relay Channel 1314  Hern, Brett Texas A&M University  Narayanan, Krishna Texas A&M University  The Generalized Degrees of Freedom of the Int erference Relay Channel with Strong Interference 1321  Gherekhloo, Soheyl Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Chaaban, Anas Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Sezgin, Aydin Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Optimal Jamming Over Additive No ise: Vector Source-Channel Case 1329  Akyol, Emrah University of California, Santa Barbara  Rose, Kenneth University of California, Santa Barbara  ThD4 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems II Pine   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Distributed Stopping in Average Consensus via Event-Triggered Strategies 1336  Manitara, Nicolaos University of Cyprus  Hadjicostis, Christoforos N University of Cyprus  Stochastic Models and Control fo r Electrical Power Line Temperature 1344  Bienstock, Daniel Columbia University  Blanchet, Jose Columbia University  Li, Juan Columbia University  Applicability of Topology Control Algorit hms \(TCA\e Power System 1349  Goldis, Evgeniy A Boston University  Li, Xiaoguang Boston University  Caramanis, Michael C Boston University  Keshavamurthy, Bhavana PJM  Patel, Mahendra PJM  Rudkevich, Aleksandr M Newton Energy Group Ruiz, Pablo A  Charles River Associates Retail Pricing for Stochastic Demand with Unknown Parameters An Online Machine Learning Approach 1353  Jia, Liyan Cornell University  Zhao, Qing University of California, Davis  Tong, Lang Cornell University  Virtual Oscillator Control for Voltage Source Inverters 1359  Dhople, Sairaj V University of Minnesota  Johnson, Brian B National Renewable Energy Laboratory  Hamadeh, Abdullah O Rutgers University  


ThD5 \226 Networks, Gam es and Algorithms IV Lower Level   Chair Lu, Yi University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Contagion and Observability in Security Domains 1364  Bachrach, Yoram Microsoft Research Cambridge Draief, Moez Imperial College  Goyal, Sanjeev University of Cambridge  Targeted Matrix Completion n a  Ruchansky, Natali Boston University  Crovella, Mark Boston University  Terzi, Evimaria Boston University  Random Matrix Theory Approach to Spectral Clustering n/a  Lelarge, Marc INRIA and \311cole Normale Sup\351rieure Optimal Distributed Scheduling in Wirele ss Networks under SINR Interference Model 1372  Chaporkar, P Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai  Proutiere, A KTH Royal Institute of Technology  Load Balancing with Deadlines and Graph Constraints n/a  Moharir, Sharayu Arun University of Texas, Austin  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Shakkottai, Sanjay University of Texas, Austin  Curbing Delays in Datacenters Need Time to Save Time n/a  Alizadeh Attar, Mohammadreza Insieme Networks  Katti, Sachin Stanford University Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  ThD6 \226 Topics in Cryptography Vistior Center   Chair Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duursma, Iwan University of Illinois  Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois How to Encrypt Software  n/a  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles  On the Cost of Information-Theoretic Cryptography n/a  Ishai, Yuval Technion - Israel Institute of Technology From Unprovability to Environmentally Friendly Protocols n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Lin, Huijia Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Boston University  Pass, Rafael Cornell University  Cryptography, Causality, and Coding n/a  Smith, Adam Pennsylvania State University  


Obfuscation for Evasive Functions n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Bitansky, Nir Tel Aviv University  Barak, Boaz Microsoft Research  Kalai, Yael Microsoft Research  Paneth, Boaz Microsoft Research  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles FrPP - Plenary Talk:  C odes for the Storage Cloud Library   Chair Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois Codes for the Storage Cloud n a  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  FrA1 \226 Wireless Communications II   Chair Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University Small Cell Networks: Speed based Power Allocation 1380  Kavitha, Veeraruna Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Capdevielle, Veronique Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Gupta, Manu K Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Distributed Power Control in Femto Ce lls using Bayesian Density Tracking 1388  Hanif, Ahmed Farhan Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Tembine, Hamidou Sup\351lec  Assaad, Mohamad Sup\351lec  Zeghlache, Djamal Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Renewable Energy Scheduling for Fading Ch annels with Maximum Power Constraint 1394  Wang, Zhe Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  Analysis and Design of Spectrum Sh aring in Cognitive Femtocell Networks 1401  Zhou, Xiangwei Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Al-Hraishawi, Hayder Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Jia, Yupeng National Instruments  Channel-Adaptive Spectrum Detection and Sensin g Strategy for Cognitive Radio Ad Hoc Networks 1408  Lu, Yuan North Carolina State University  Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University  Quantized Auction Schemes for Secondary Spectrum Markets 1415  Palguna, Deepan Purdue University  Love,  David J Purdue University  Pollak, Ilya Purdue University  Performance Analysis of Coexisting Secondary users in Heterogeneous Cognitive Radio Network 1422  Li, Xiaohua State University of New York, Binghamton  Xiong, Chengyu State University of New York, Binghamton  


FrA2 \226 Statistical Signal Processing Solarium   Chair  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University Nearly Optimal Sample Size in Hypothesis Testing for High-Dim ensional Regression 1427  Javanmard, Adel Stanford University  Montanari, Andrea Stanford University  Distributed Online Big Data Classifi cation using Context Information 1435  Tekin, Cem University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Compressed Hypothesis Testing: To Mix or Not to Mix 1443  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  Lai, Lifeng Worcester Polytechnic Institute  Sparse Signal Recovery under Poisson Statistics 1450  Motamedvaziri, Delaram Boston University  Rohban, Mohammad H Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Efficient Probabilistic Group Testing based on Traitor Tracing 1458  Laarhoven, Thijs Eindhoven University of Technology  Computational and Statistical Tradeoffs via Convex Relaxation n/a  Chandrasekaran, Venkat California Institute of Technology  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Time-Variant Regularization in Affine Projection Algorithms 1466  Ba, Amadou IBM Research  McKenna, Sean IBM Research  Cloud K-SVD: Computing Data-Adaptive Representations in the Cloud 1474  Raja, Haroon Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  FrA3 \226 Information Aggregation Over Social Networks Butternut   Chair Hassanzadeh, Farzad University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology The Maximum Likelihood Approach to Voting on Social Networks 1482  Conitzer, Vincent Duke University  Building Consensus via Iterative Voting n/a  Farnoud \(Hassanzadeh California Institute of Technology  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology  Touri, Behrouz Georgia Institute of Technology Bruck, Jehoshua California Institute of Technology  CP-Nets with Indifference  1488  Allen, Thomas E University of Kentucky  


Computing Parametric Rankin g Models via Rank-Breaking n/a  Azari Soufiani, Hossein Harvard University  Parkes, David Harvard University  Xia, Lirong Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  On the Dynamics of Influence Networks via Reflected Appraisal n/a  Bullo, Francesco University of California, Santa Barbara Social Group Utility Maximization Game with Applications in Mobile Social Networks 1496  Gong, Xiaowen Arizona State University  Chen, Xu Arizona State University  Zhang, Junshan Arizona State University  Credibility Optimization and Power Co ntrol for Secure Mobile Crowdsourcing 1501  Ahmed, Kishwar Florida International University  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Turnewitsch, Vance Marietta College  Vasilakos, Athanasios V National Technical University of Athens  Group Learning and Opinion Diffusion in a Broadcast Network 1509  Liu, Yang University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  FrA4 \226 Network Coding Pine   Chair Dimakis, Alex University of Southern California Secure Network Coding with Erasures and Feedback 1517  Czap, L\341szl\363 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Prabhakaran, Vinod M Tata Institute of Fundamental Research  Diggavi, Suhas University of California, Los Angeles  Index Coding Problem with Side Information Repositories 1525  Shanmugam, Karthikeyan University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alexandros G University of Texas, Austin  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  Complexity and Rate-Distortion Tradeoff via Successive Refinement 1531  No, Albert Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  On a Capacity Equivalence Between Mult iple Multicast and Multiple Unicast 1537  Wong, M.F California Institute of Technology  Langberg, M State University of New York, Buffalo Effros, M California Institute of Technology  On the Capacity of Sum-Networks 1545  Rai, Brijesh Kumar Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  Das, Niladri Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  


Duality Codes and the Integral ity Gap Bound for Index Coding 1553  Yu, Hao University of Southern California  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  On the Structure of Approximately Optimal Schedules for Half-Duplex Diamond Networks 1561  Brahma, Siddhartha 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326zg\374r, Ayfer Stanford University  FrA5 \226 Topology and Control Lower Level   Chair Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Co-Chair Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois Double Bracket Flows, Toda Flows and Rigid Body Toda 1567  Bloch, Anthony M University of Michigan  Gay-Balmaz, Fran\347ois 311cole Normale Sup\351rieure  Ratiu, Tudor S 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Topological Obstructions to Dist ributed Feedback Stabilization 1573  Mansouri, Abdol-Reza Queen's University  Contact Geometry of Optimal Control Problems n/a  Ohsawa, Tomoki University of Michigan, Dearborn  Equivariant Morse Theory for Formation Control 1576  Helmke, Uwe University of W\374rzburg  Anderson, Brian D.O Australian National University  Towards Discrete Geometric Boundary Co ntrol of Lagrangian Field Theories n/a  Leok, Melvin University of California, San Diego  Structure and Geometry of Minimum-Tim e Trajectories for Planar Rigid Bodies 1584  Futuna, Andrei A Dartmouth College  Wang, Weifu Dartmouth College  Lyu, Yu-Han Dartmouth College  Balkcom, Devin Dartmouth College  Real and Apparent Synchronization n/a  Brockett, Roger Harvard University  Rauch and Bonnet-Myers Type Comparison Theorems in Sub-Riemannian Geometry n/a  Zelenko, Igor Texas A&M University  


FrA6 \226 Privacy and Big Data Visitor Center   Chair Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duchi, John University of California, Berkeley  Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates 1592  Duchi, John C University of California, Berkeley  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Wainwright, Martin J University of California, Berkeley  Differential Privacy, Equilibrium, and Efficient Allocation of Resources 1593  Roth, Aaron University of Pennsylvania  A Bayesian Method for Matching Tw o Similar Graphs without Seeds 1598  Pedarsani, Pedram 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Figueiredo, Daniel R Federal University of Rio de Janeiro  Grossglauser, Matthias 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Privacy as a Coordination Game 1608  Ghosh, Arpita Cornell University  Ligett, Katrina California Institute of Technology  De-Anonymizing Private Data by Matching Statistics 1616  Unnikrishnan, Jayakrishnan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Movahedi Naini, Farid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Robust Subspace Iteration and Privacy-Preserving Spectral Analysis 1624  Hardt, Moritz IBM Research Almaden  Privacy-Utility Tradeoff und er Statistical Uncertainty 1627  Makhdoumi, Ali Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Fawaz, Nadia Technicolor   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a ìkey, valueî list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of ìkey, valueî pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


