Rapid Response to Volcanic Eruptions with an Autonomous Sensor Web The Nyamulagira Eruption of 2006 Ashley Gerard Davies Rebecca Castanfo Steve Chien Daniel Tran Lukas Mandrake Jet Propulsion Laboratory-California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109-8099 USA Phone 818-393-1775 email Ashley.Daviesgjpl.nasa.gov Robert Wright University of Hawai'i at Manoa Hawai'i Institute 
of Geophysics and Planetology 1680 East-West Road POST 602 Honolulu HI 96822 USA Phone 808-956-9194 email wrightWhigp.hawaii.edu Philip Kyle Department of Earth  Environmental Science New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology 801 Leroy Place Socorro NM 87801 USA Phone 505-835-5995 email kyle@nmt.edu Jean-Christophe Komorowski Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris CNRS UMR 7154 
Departement de Geologie des Systemes Volcaniques 4 Place Jussieu BP 89 Paris 75252 Cedex 05 France Phone 33 1 44 27 73 43 email komorowWipgpjussieu.fr Dan Mandl NASA Goddard Space Flight Center 
ms 584.0 Greenbelt MD 20771 USA Phone 301-286-4323 email dan.mandlWgsfc.nasa.gov Stuart Frye Noblis 3150 Fairview Park Drive South Falls 
Church VA 22042 USA Phone 301-286-4797 email Stuart.Fryeggsfc.nasa.gov Abstract Rapid response to alerts of impending or active volcanism is vital in the assessment of volcanic risk and hazard The JPL Model-Driven Volcano Sensor Web MSW demonstrated such an autonomous response during a volcanic crisis at Nyamulagira volcano D R Congo in December 2006 
quickly providing vital information to volcanologists in the field The MSW was developed to enable fast science-driven asset command and control Alerts of volcanic activity from around the world are used to trigger high resolution observations both spectral and spatial by the EO-1 spacecraft Data are processed onboard EO-1 by advanced software the Autonomous 
Sciencecraft Experiment ASE If volcanic thermal emission is detected ASE retasks EO-1 to obtain more data A summary of the observation is returned within two hours of data acquisition T12 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 
IEEE 2IEEEAC paper  
1 180 Version 7 Updated November 18 2007 TABLE OF CONTENTS ABSTRACT 1 
1 INTRODUCTION  2 2 MODEL-DRIVEN VOLCANO SENSOR WEB 2 3 REMOTE SENSING OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY 2 4 ONBOARD DATA PROCESSING AND ASE  4 5 NYAMULAGIRA DECEMBER 2006  4 6 OTHER EXAMPLES MANDA HARARO  7 7 OTHER EXAMPLES OLDOINYo LENGAI  7 8 SENSOR WEB 
GOALS FOR 2007  7 9 Two-WAY SENSOR WEB OPERATIONS  8 10 MODEL-DRIVEN OPERATIONS  8 11 AUTOMATED RE-TASKING  8 12 OTHER SENSOR WEB ACTIVITIES  9 13 FUTURE PLANS  9 REFERENCES  9 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  9 BIOGRAPHIES  10 1 


1 INTRODUCTION IN A volcanic crisis time is of the essence Volcanic products both on the ground lava flows pyroclastic flows debris avalanches and lahars and in the atmosphere large plumes of volcanic ash can pose serious threats to life and property both on the ground and in the air Volcanic hazard is most acute with remote volcanoes where there is little or no in situ monitoring capability and volcanoes in regions where poor infrastructure and even civil strife impacts the ability of scientists in the field to monitor and assess volcanic hazards and risks In both cases remote sensing of volcanoes from space-based platforms often provides the first indication that magma has reached the surface and an eruption is in process At NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory we have developed an advanced sensor web that utilizes models of volcanic activity to recognize not only at what stage an eruption is in but to seek out specific additional data needed to improve the knowledge of the eruption state Such autonomous sensor webs have applications not just on Earth but also on other planets such as Mars where management of large numbers of ground-based atmospheric and orbiting assets need to be coordinated to minimize resource use and maximize science return 2 MODEL-DRIVEN VOLCANO SENSOR WEB The Volcano Sensor Web VSW at JPL has been described by Chien et al 2005a and Davies et al 2006a 2007 A wide range of alerts or detections of volcanic activity or of impending volcanic activity are used to trigger observations from the Earth-orbiting Earth Observing-I EO-1 spacecraft managed out of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center Alerts come from autonomous systems processing other spacecraft data on the ground web postings of detections of volcanic ash and plumes alerts from in situ instruments emails detailing volcanic activity and from data processing applications onboard EO-1 i.e ASE described below The new model-based volcano sensor web MSW Figure 1 is an advance beyond this simple detection-response operation mode where an alert of activity generates a request for a spacecraft observation with generally no deeper understanding of the magnitude or extent of the eruption that was taking place The priority of the observation request was determined by rank in a table The highest priority targets were those where either an eruption would have a potentially catastrophic impact e.g Mauna Loa Vesuvius or were of particular scientific interest such as volcanoes with long-lived lava lakes Erta Ale Ethiopia Erebus Antarctica The goal of the MSW is to have asset operations based on determining what additional information and data are needed to understand the state of a volcanic eruption The required information flow between sensor web assets is performed through web services The web service interfaces are defined by the Open Geospatial Consortium OGC Sensor Web Enablement SWE e.g Botts et al 2006 and allow for describing a process flow enabling extraction of higher-level information from datasets exchanging of metadata determining the quality of data acquiring instrument and data information communicating between sensors and discovery of assets data and data products and observation requests The MSW consists of several parts a a model of the physical processes under study b models of a set of sensors which describe the data being acquired as well as tasking interfaces c a set of in-situ and remote sensors together with their tasking interfaces d data processing capability based on the SWE interface descriptions to provide physical model inputs e a web-based data display and evaluation application at JPL and f command and control infrastructure to enable automated tasking of in-situ and remote sensing assets We will demonstrate a prototype sensor web using data collection assets and applications processing these data at JPL EO-i Hyperion and Advanced Land Imager ALI data the University of Hawaii MODVOLC processing MODIS infrared data and at the Mount Erebus Volcano Observatory MEVO New Mexico Tech which provides multi-sensor data of volcanic activity at Erebus volcano Ross Island Antarctica 3 REMOTE SENSING OF VOLCANIC ACTIVITY Both the original VSW and the new MSW make use of Earth-orbiting platforms and autonomous data processing systems The flight of the first Earth-orbiting high-spatialresolution hyperspectral imager Hyperion Pearlman et al 2003 and the Advanced Land Imager ALI on EO-1 Ungar et al 2003 and the Advanced Spaceborne Thermal Emission and Reflection Radiometer ASTER Yamaguchi et al 1998 the high-spatialresolution multispectral visible and infrared imager on Terra and the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer MODIS on Terra and Aqua yield observations of volcanoes at spatial resolutions as high as 10 m per pixel ALI temporal coverage up to four times a day or better for high-latitude targets MODIS and spectral resolutions of 10 nm Hyperion has 196 usable discrete bands from 0.4 to 2.5 ptm covering visible and short infrared wavelengths In the last years of the 20th Century and early years of the 21st the proliferation of orbiting sensors has increased the pace of data acquisition dramatically leading to the development of automated systems to process and mine the huge volumes of data collected for the nuggets of high-value science content For example direct broadcast of satellite imaging data from MODIS bypasses traditional routes of data transmission via a small number of ground-stations and has been coupled to automatic data-processing applications to rapidly detect anomalous above-background thermal emission 2 


Model-driven Sensor Web Science studies research and data analyses Models of volcanic processes Model input requirements define I needed observations Sensor Web event detection Autonomous planner Search for required data or request for data acquisition Spacecraft observations Automatic data processing physical parameters product generation Figure 1 Layout of the Model-driven Volcano Sensor Web An alert of volcanic activity drives a request for data to be input into models of volcanic processes to gain a better understanding of the event taking place Data are searched for if not available then assets are retasked to obtain the data For example detection of a volcanic plume leads to a request for data at shortand thermal-infrared wavelengths in order to estimate effusion rate Davies et al 2007 3  ____j lo 4 


Two such detection systems are at the University of Hawai'i MODVOLC Wright et al 2004 processes daily MODIS data GOESvolc Harris et al 2000 processes GOES Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite data from the Pacific Rim at lower spatial but higher temporal 15-minute resolution than MODIS MODIS has the advantage over GOES of global coverage four times a day with higher temporal resolution at higher latitudes The recognition and posting of the location of volcanic activity by MODVOLC is currently about 24 hours after data acquisition 4 ONBOARD DATA PROCESSING AND ASE Notification of the detection of high-temperature anomalies on the surface can be greatly increased by placing data analysis software onboard space-based platforms The NASA Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment ASE under the auspices of the NASA New Millennium Program Space Technology 6 has been in full operation onboard EO-1 since 2004 ASE Chien et al 2005b Davies et al 2006b is software that processes data from the Hyperion hyperspectral imager an instrument well-suited to detecting thermal emission from on-going volcanic activity e.g active lava flows or domes Apart from such data classifiers ASE also consists of a planner that allows retasking of the spacecraft to re-image targets of interest and also a spacecraft command language that allows the science goal planner to operate spacecraft and instruments Rapid responses at best within a few hours of initial observation acquisition have been obtained by ASE Of particular interest is the ASE THERMAL-SUMMARY product Davies et al 2006a b This is generated by ASE and consists of spectra the intensity of thermal emission at 12 wavelengths for each hot pixel identified in the Hyperion data by the ASE thermal classifier This product no larger than 20 KB in size is downlinked with spacecraft engineering telemetry at the next contact Often these data are posted at JPL within 90 minutes of acquisition allowing rapid identification of volcanic activity or at least of a thermal source on the ground ASE has detected burning fields forest fires oil fires and industrial processes that generate intense thermal sources Due to limited knowledge of the precise timing of the spacecraft observation at time of contact generally all that can be said is that a thermal source has been detected This is sufficient to issue a detection successful bulletin The resulting THERMAL SUMMARY product with intensity data in the range 0.4 to 2.4 ptm can also be processed with groundbased applications to determine the intensity and extent of activity Now funded by the NASA Advanced Information Science Technology AIST Program and with the invaluable help of the USGS EROS Data Center and NASA Goddard Space Flight Center downlink and transfer of raw Hyperion data to JPL has been reduced from more than two weeks in 2004 to about 24 hours At JPL data are spacecraft telemetry and image metadata to determine exact spacecraft pointing The result is that within about 24 hours of acquisition data are in a format where the thermal sources can be overlain of a map or photo of a volcano to identify the location of activity 5 NYAMULAGIRA DECEMBER 2006 The capability for providing crucial data in the midst of a volcanic crisis was demonstrated in December 2006 during the eruption of the volcano Nyamulagira also known as Nyamuragira located at latitude 1.41 S longitude 29.2 E in the Democratic Republic of Congo Africa Nyamulagira Figures 2 3 is a massive broad basaltic shield 3058 m high of some 550 km3 in volume Figure 2 The Mikombe cone eruption of Nyamulagira volcano D R Congo Sept 1993 The cone reached a height of 70 m GVN Image credit Minoru Kasahara Figure 3 The summit of Nyamulagira is truncated by this small 2 x 2.3 km caldera with walls up to about 100 m high Extensive lava flows emanate from the summit and from the flanks of the volcano Ikonos image courtesy of GeoEye processed to LIG that is a geo-located format utilizing 4 


Figure 4 above Nyamulagira in eruption in late 2006 The eruption was detected by the ASE Thermal Classifier Davies et al 2006b used to process EO-1 Hyperion observation E01H173061200633811OKF obtained on 4 December 2006 Image resolution is 30 m per pixel The most intense group of pixels white denotes the active vent where lava first reaches the surface Lava flows move to the west from right to left and southwest ASE rapidly downlinks the number of thermally-active pixels and 12 wavelengths of data for each of these pixels to a file size limit of 20 kB This image is at 1.245 ptm Location of the thermal source to within 1 km along the spacecraft track vector is not possible with this product until spacecraft telemetry and metadata are returned usually 24 hours after data acquisition Nevertheless this product rapidly typically 90 minutes after observation confirms the eruption has been successfully observed These data can be used to quantify thermal emission and constrain effusion rate Figure 5 right Nyamulagira observation EO1A173061200633811OKF obtained on 4 December 2006 by the EO-1 Advanced Land Imager ALI The active vent and flows yellow and red show up best in the short wavelength infrared bands Image resolution is 30 m per pixel The image is constructed from three bands as follows red channel  2.08-2.35 ptm green channel  1.55-1.75 ptm blue channel 1.2-1.3 ptm The cloud-free shore line of Lake Kivu allowed accurate positioning of the vent and lava flows manually The ability since May 2007 to geo-rectify data at JPL within 24-36 hours of acquisition will aid rapid automatic generation and distribution of such products 5 


It is located in the East African Rift Valley some 25 km north of Lake Kivu and 30 km from the town of Goma population 500 000 Africa's most active volcano Nyamulagira is highly destructive having erupted over 30 times since 1882 Recent eruptions have taken place every one to two years Smithsonian Global Volcano Network GVN Figures 4 and 5 Flows from the volcano cover 1500 km2 of the East Africa Rift Valley Historical eruptions have occurred within the summit caldera Figure 3 as well as from numerous fissures and cinder cones on the volcano's flanks Figure 2 Historical flows some voluminous and fast-moving have extended down the flanks as far as 30 km and have reached Lake Kivu on several occasions The onset of most Nyamulagira eruptions is characterized by violent Hawaiian-style lava fountains that can reach several hundred meters in height and produce copious amounts of tephra and associated magmatic gases The volcanic products extend for hundreds of kilometers downwind causing extensive crop damage and nuisances Figure 6 Model predictions of flow emplacement produced by Pablo Papale and colleagues at INGV Italy The light blue areas show the lava flow prediction model output showing where flows were most likely to go based on topography and assuming a large voluminous eruption The main flow field light blue is emplaced to the south west but also note the flow field emplaced to the east Image credit INGV Pisa Italy During late October and November 2006 increased seismic activity recorded at the Goma Volcano Observatory GVO of the Centre de Recherches en Sciences Naturelles CRSN indicated an eruption was imminent M Kasereka pers comm 2006 Magma reached the surface on 27 November 2006 when lava erupted on the southeastern flanks of Nyamulagira forming lava fountains and lava flows The glow from this activity was observed from Goma some 30 km to the south Smithsonian Institution 2007 The insecurity of the region due to ongoing armed conflicts prevented volcanologists from GVO from reaching the eruption site and pin-pointing vent location Helicopter observations were likewise very difficult and also partly impossible due to the very large amounts of tephra and gases in the atmosphere near the vent On 1 December 2006 an urgent call went out by email for satellite imagery to help understand the dynamics of the eruption A copy of this email reached JPL on 2 December 2006 The EO-1 ground software provides for an operator to identify and insert an observation into the spacecraft operations time line on short notice Insertion depends on an observation slot being available and also on the relative position of target and spacecraft EO-1 can observe equatorial targets approximately 10 times 5 day 5 night in a 16 day period In this case however such a manual intervention was not necessary The VSW had already triggered an observation request The volcanic plume emanating from Nyamulagira was reported by the Volcanic Ash Advisory Centre VAAC in Toulouse France and this alert was detected by the VSW EO-1 was autonomously retasked to obtain an observation of Nyamulagira at the next available opportunity on 4 December 2006 Subsequently the observation was obtained and the data processed onboard by ASE The thermal classifier detected hot pixels and EO1 was retasked to obtain another observation on 7 December 2006 F igure 7 iviocdel output trom IN\(V usIng the accurate location of the vent derived from Hyperion data No new flows are seen to the east More flows are seen to the southwest These flows have a greater potential for reaching Sake In the end the flows from this eruption did not reach this far Image credit INGV Pisa Italy Within two hours of data acquisition the THERMAL SUMMMARY product was available at JPL for study Figure 4 Although this product is not suitable for accurate geolocation of activity it was nevertheless an 6 


indication that the eruption had been successfully imaged Within 24 hours the full dataset had been downlinked and transmitted to JPL On 5 December 2006 images of the volcano showing the active vent and recently emplaced flows Figure 5 were sent to GVO and scientists in France and Italy These images were used to pinpoint the location of the vent and direction of flows The main vent was identified and was found to be some 2 km from the first estimated position This information was used by Paolo Papale and colleagues at L'Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia INGV in Italy to model likely flow direction and extent in order to determine risk to local towns As can be seen in Figures 6 and 7 flow modeling with the new vent location revealed that no flows were likely to be emplaced to the east of the vent Figure 6 Instead all lava flows were emplaced to the west and southwest with a greater probability of these flows reaching the town of Sake Figure 7 crossing the only major paved road in the region This vital road runs along the northern shores of Lake Kivu and links the city of Goma in the eastern part of the D.R Congo to its neighbour Gisenyi in Rwanda and to the town of Sake and the rest of the D R Congo Such information allowed volcanologists at GVO to assess hazard and direct resources accordingly The eruption of Nyamulagira in November-December 2006 was thankfully brief Flows from this event did not reach any villages or towns nor cross the paved road unlike previous eruptions from Nyamulagira and the nearby volcano Nyiragongo in 2002 drainage of the lava lake triggered a flank eruption from Nyiragongo sent broad fastmoving flows over a distance of 19 km through the city of Goma into Lake Kivu There was great loss of life and property Komorowski et al 2004 Nevertheless the value of the autonomous sensor web was effectively demonstrated during the 2006 Nyamulagira eruption 6 OTHER EXAMPLES MANDA HARARO In August and September 2007 other east African volcanoes were imaged as a result of Sensor Web operations The first was Manda Hararo long 40.82 E lat 12.170 N in the Afar region of Ethiopia In late August 2007 reports were received that an eruption was taking place in this remote region Triggered by a MODVOLC thermal detection EO-1 was retasked to obtain higher spatial and spectral resolution data Additional observation requests were input by an operator at JPL Unfortunately the vent location and area covered by new lava flows were repeatedly covered in cloud in the Hyperion and ALI data 7 OTHER EXAMPLES OLDOINYo LENGAI On August 29 2007 the volcano Oldoinyo Lengai long 35.902 E lat 2.751 S in the East African rift Valley in Tanzania was imaged by EO-1 The observation resulted from another thermal detection by MODVOLC Oldoinyo Lengai Figure 8 is a volcano of particular interest as it is the only volcano known to have erupted natro-carbonatite lavas in historical times These lavas are erupted at a relatively low temperature some hundreds of degrees less than that of basalt lava typically 1150 260C Figure 8 Oldoinyo Lengai Image credit GVN It was not known if an eruption could be detected by ASE as Hyperion was not particular sensitive to this lowertemperature volcanism Although a number of day and nighttime observations had been obtained from 2004 to 2007 no thermal detection had been made Excitingly the August 2007 Hyperion data showed two very bright sources in the summit crater with spectra consistent with hot newlyerupted lava There was an indication of a short lava flow flowing from the crater to the northwest Based on a preliminary analysis of the Hyperion data effusion rate at this time was estimated at 0.5 m3 s-1 Such effusion rate calculations are now being incorporated into the Sensor Web as a generated product for each observation 8 SENSOR WEB GOALS FOR 2007 Subsequent to the success of the VSW with Nyamulagira steps have been taken to fully-automate data processing analysis and product generation At time of writing GVO is developing a system to publish alerts to the Internet The second step is to create a software agent used by the VSW to detect these alerts The final step is automating posting of the acquired products and analysis to the scientists Our goals for the remainder of 2007 Figure 9 include the automatic generation of image products true-color and false-color images created from data at visible and infrared wavelengths that clearly show the location of volcanic activity see Figure 5 These are relatively simple products to generate but are probably of greatest value to volcanologists who are concerned with where lava is erupting from and where it is going As part of AISTfunded work data from Hyperion are processed to yield locations that initial analyses suggest are within 300 m 7 


along track and 200 m across track The process of plotting hot pixels on a map or grid is currently being implemented By the end of 2007 for each observation obtained by the Sensor Web hot spot locations will be plotted estimates of thermal emission and effusion rate generated images produced and transmitted to interested parties within a few hours of data acquisition Already the full Hyperion and ALI datasets are generally available for additional processing within 48 hours of acquisition Just two years ago receipt of radiometrically corrected data took some two to three weeks Figure 9 The Volcano Sensor Web at the end of 2007 including two-way triggering between spacecraft and in situ sensors 9 TWO-WAY SENSOR WEB OPERATIONS The current Sensor Web demonstrates the retasking of a spacecraft as a result of detection of an alert The reverse is also possible triggering an in situ sensor as a result of event eruption detection from a spacecraft Such autonomous sensor-to-sensor communication via a data-clearing hub has applications elsewhere in the solar system where nets of spacecraft rovers and aerobots can communicate discoveries to optimize science return and to safeguard assets One example of this would be a detection of a martian dust-storm from on-board analysis of data on an orbiter A storm warning is then automatically sent to assets on the martian surface or in the atmosphere Under an expansion of the sensor web such two-way data flow between sensor and spacecraft is being demonstrated by the installation of two sensor packages on Kilauea volcano Hawai i in November 2007 Boudreau et al 2007 which are connected to EO-1 via the VSW In this demonstration project SO2 sensors have been incorporated into expendable Volcano Monitor capsules to be placed downwind of the Pu'u O'o vent of Kilauea volcano Hawai'i Boudreau et al 2007 In nominal low power conservation mode data from these sensors are collected and transmitted every hour to the Volcano Sensor Web through the Iridium Satellite Network If SO2 readings exceed a predetermined threshold the modem within the Volcano Monitor sends an alert to the JPL Sensor Web triggering a request for prompt EO-1 Hyperion data acquisition Boudreau et al 2007 and increasing the data acquisition rate at the in situ sensor During pre-defined critical events as perceived by multiple sensors which could include both in situ and spaceborne devices the Sensor Web can order the SO2 sensors within the Volcano Monitor to increase their sampling frequency to once per minute high power burst mode Autonomous control of the sensors sampling frequency enables the Sensor Web to monitor and respond to rapidly evolving conditions before and during an eruption and allows near real-time compilation and dissemination of these data to the scientific community Boudreau et al 2007 10 MODEL-DRIVEN OPERATIONS Additionally we are developing models of volcano behaviour to make the best use of available resources We are studying sensor data obtained remotely and from in situ instrumentation from Erebus volcano Antarctica and Kilauea volcano Hawai'i in order to determine thresholds delineating unusual levels of activity This will enable events of particular interest either the cessation of activity or an unusually high level of activity to be distinguished from the usual background level of volcanism This could simply be a count of the number of alerts in a 24 hour period from in situ instruments or an unusual level of thermal emission detected from a spacecraft to results from use of more sophisticated models of volcanic processes For example we are developing a Sensor Web plug-in module that uses a model of how eruption effusion rate volume of lava erupted per second varies with time Wadge 1981 Plotting such variability can be used to estimate possible magnitude of an eruption episode volume erupted and even possibly the duration of the event 11 AUTOMATED RE-TASKING A key element of this new sensor web technology and philosophy is automated re-tasking In the existing sensor web automated planning technology is used in a combined ground and flight to automatically re-task sensor web assets primarily EO-1 This capability is hard-wired such that the scientist must specify the exact combination of sensor events that causes a specific sensor web reconfiguration usually a request for one or more observations by the EO-1 spacecraft In this effort this capability will be generalized in several ways First the triggering events will be generalized to enable triggers based on deeper models of the science phenomena e.g parameters of the physics-based model This corresponds to triggers such as effusion estimates 8 


Remote Sensing 36 1062-1071 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory-California Institute of Technology under 9 changes in the modes of eruption Additionally we will add the capability to respond with additional data based on classes of sensor data This corresponds to a scenario where a specific thermal measurement might be requested with SWE specifications being interpreted to assess available sensors and retask appropriately Second the types of responses will be generalized to new asset classes We will demonstrate space-borne information leading to reconfiguration of ground assets as well as ground assets leading to reconfiguration of other ground assets Third we will provide basic optimization capabilities to enable greater flexibility in representing scientist response preferences At first these will be restricted to single observation preferences e.g timing duration of a single observation or sustained measurement but in later years we hope to extend this to enable specification of preferences over a sequence of observations e.g a campaign with regular intervals Each of these technology advances will be demonstrated in the context of the volcano sensor web testbed which will link together space assets EO-1 MODVOLC with ground assets MEVO Such an approach can be incorporated to other Earth science disciplines 12 OTHER SENSOR WEB ACTIVITIES In addition to the Volcano Sensor Web other sensor web operations are currently operating These include retasking EO-1 to observe areas of snow and ice melting or freezing based on the analysis of ice coverage data disseminated by the National Snow and Ice Data Center NSIDC Denver CO This part of the sensor web project is overseen by Thomas Doggett at Arizona State University A Flood Sensor Web is now being tested where EO-1 is triggered from automatic processing of NASA Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission TRMM data coupled to hydrological modeling This effort is led by Felipe Ip at the University of Arizona 13 FUTURE PLANS Future plans for the Volcano Sensor Web include 1 incorporating more data sources from other volcano observatories and data processing systems around the world 2 incorporating algorithms that process the ASE THERMAL SUMMARY product to yield estimates of total thermal emission and effusion rate as a systematic product 3 systematic processing of ALI data which covers a larger area than Hyperion an ALI observation is 38 km wide rather than 7.7 km wide with Hyperion and 4 the possible onboard image generation for transmission with the THERMAL SUMMARY product to provide context to thermal detections This product would be delivered some 24 hours before the full dataset is downlinked and processed However with strong constraints on the size of ASE products that can be downlinked with spacecraft telemetry 20 kb this might not be possible with EO-1 Such a product would nevertheless be highly desirable on future missions REFERENCES TBotts M A Robin J Davidson and I Simonis 2006 OGC Sensor Web Architecture Framework OGC Public Discussion Paper OGC 06-02lr2 Boudreau K J Cecava A Behar A G Davies D Tran A Abtahi D C Pieri and the JPL Volcano Sensor Web Team 2007 Autonomous Triggering of in situ Sensors on Kilauea Volcano HI from Eruption Detection by the EO-1 Spacecraft Design and Operational Scenario Abstract Amer Geophys Union Fall Meeting San Francisco December 2007 Chien S B Cichy A G Davies D Tran G Rabideau R Castano R Sherwood D Mandl S Frye S Schulman J Jones and S Grosvenor 2005a Rem Sens 41 1160-1172 Smithsonian Institution 2007 Nyamuragira Bulletin of the Global Volcano Network Rem Sens 41 1149-1159 Wadge G 1981 The variation of magma discharge during basaltic eruption J Volcanol Geotherm Res 11 139-168 Wright R Return on Earth Observing One Journal of Aerospace Computing Information  Communication 2005b AIAA 2 196-216 Davies A G S Chien R Wright A Miklius P R Kyle M Welsh J B Johnson to Improve Science R Sherwood D Tran B Cichy G Rabideau R Castano A G Davies D Mandl S Frye B Trout S Shulman D Boyer Using Autonomy Flight Software D Tran S to volcanic activity Eos 87 1 1&5 Davies A G S Chien V Baker T Doggett J Dohm R Greeley F Ip R Castano B Cichy G Rabideau D Tran and R Sherwood 2006b Monitoring Active Volcanism with the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment on EO-1 TRem Sens Environ 101 no 4 427-446 Davies A G R Wright P Kyle R Castano S Chien D Tran S Chadde L Mandrake D Mandl and S Frye 2007 Proc NASA Science Technology Conference 2007 NTSC07 Adelphi MD USA 19-21 June 2007 Harris A J L L P Flynn K Dean et al 2000a Real-time satellite monitoring of volcanic hot spots in Remote sensing of active volcanism AGU Geophysical Monograph 116 edited by P Mouginis-Mark et al pp 13 9-160 Komorowski J-C D Tedesco M Kasereka P Allard et al 2004 The January 2002 flank eruption of Nyiragongo volcano Democratic Republic of Congo Chronology evidence for a tectonic trigger and impact of lava flows on the city of Goma Acta Vulcanologica Istituti Editoriali e Poligrafici Internazionali Pisa Roma Vol 14 1-2 2002 and Vol 15 12 2003 27-61 published 2004 Pearlman J S P S Barry C C Segal et al 2003 Hyperion a SpaceBased Imaging Spectrometer IEEE Trans Geosci V 32 J S Pearlman J A Mendenhall et al 2003 Overview of the Earth Observing One EO-1 Mission IEEE Trans Geosci L P Flynn H Garbeil et al 2004 MODVOLC near-realtime thermal monitoring of global volcanism Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research 135 29-49 Yamaguchi Y A Kahle H Tsu et al 1998 Overview of Advanced Spaceborne Thermal Emission and Reflection Radiometer ASTER IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and no 1 Ungar S G R Schaffer and R Sherwood 2006a Sensor web enables rapid response An Autonomous Earth-Observing Sensorweb IEEE Intelligent Systems 20 no 3 16-24 Chien S A sciencedriven autonomous volcano sensor web paper D3P2 


contract to NASA We gratefully acknowledge funding from the NASA Advanced Information Science Technology AIST Program We acknowledge the contributions to this work of Paolo Papale and colleagues at L'Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia INGV and of Kasereka Mahinda and colleagues at the Goma Volcano Observatory GVO-CRSN EO-1 is managed by the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center With a task of this magnitude many persons are involved We especially thank Chris Stevens NMP Program Manager at JPL Simon Hook the NMP Program Scientist Earth at JPL Art Chmielewski NMP ST-6 Project Manager Rob Sherwood ASE Project Manager and JPL AIST Program Manager and the staff faculty and students of the Mount Erebus Volcano Observatory New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology BIOGRAPHIES Ashley Davies is a volcanologist at the Jet Propulsion LaboratoryCalifornia Institute of Technology He has a PhD in planetary science from Lancaster University UK He has extensively studied volcanoes on Earth and the jovian moon Io He was a member of the NASA Galileo NIMS Team is lead scientist on the NASA New Millennium Program Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment currently flying on Earth Observing-i and is Principal Investigator of several NASA-funded research programs He is the author of Volcanism on Io a comparison with Earth recently published by Cambridge University Press He was a recipient of the 2005 NASA Software of the Year Awardfor ASE Rebecca Castano received her Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from the University of Illinois with her dissertation in the area of computer vision Dr Castaiho has been lead author on numerous publications on onboard science analysis From I999-2001 Dr Castano served as the application lead for phenomenological computational field geology efforts at JPL She is the technology leadfor science data processing for the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment flying on EO-1 and Team Lead of the Onboard Autonomous Science Investigation System OASIS project Steve Chien is a Principal Computer Scientist in the HMission Planning and Execution Section at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and Adjunct Associate Professor with the Department of Computer Science of the University of Southern California He holds a B.S with Highest Honors in Computer Science with minors in Mathematics and Economics M.S and Ph.D degrees in Computer Science all from the University of Illinois Dr Chien is a recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Awardfor Excellence and two NASA Exceptional Achievement Medals for his work in research and development of planning and scheduling systems for NASA He is the Principal Investigator for the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment which is a co-winner of the 2005 NASA Software of the Year Award Daniel Tran is a member of the technical staff in the Artificial Intelligence Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology where he is working on developing automated planning and scheduling systems for onboard spacecraft commanding Daniel attended the University of Washington and received a B.S in Computer Engineering graduating with honors He is currently the software leadfor the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment flying onboard the Earth Observing-i satellite Lukas Mandrake is a member of the Machine Learning and Instrument Autonomy group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena CA He is involved in the application of machine learning techniques to current research endeavors with various Earth-sensing satellite systems and particularly enjoys building and studying computational models of natural systems Luke received his PhD and M.S in computational plasma physics from UCLA and his B.A in engineering physics from the University of Arizona 10 


Robert Wright is a member of the faculty at the Hawaii Institute of Geophysics and Planetology He has degrees in remote sensing from the University of London and the Open University U.K He specializes in infrared radiometry and is Principal Investigator of several NASA-fundedprojects Philip Kyle is a Professor of Geochemistry at the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology Socorro NM He is also the director of the Mount Erebus Volcano Observatory which is supported by the Office of Polar Programs of the National Science Foundation He is currently co-editing with Clive Oppenheimer a special issue on Erebus volcano Antarctica for the Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research Jean-Christophe Komorowski is a volcanologist at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris IPGP CNRS UMR 7154 in Paris France He has a BA in geologyfrom Boston University USA and a MSc and PhD in volcanology from Arizona State University Tempe USA He has undertaken extensive field studies of volcanoes in the Lesser Antilles Mexico and in Africa Democratic Republic of Congo He was Director and Scientist-in-Charge of the IPGP Soufriere of Guadeloupe Volcano Observatory from 1997-2001 and Chairman of the UNDP-ISDR-UNOCHA Nyiragongo Scientific and Technical Advising Committee 2004-2006 for the United Nations He was one of the principal investigators of the EXPLORIS research project 20022006 funded by the European Commission He is a consultant for the IAEA on safety guidelines for volcanic hazards in site evaluation for nuclear power plants Dan Mandl is the Earth Observing 1 Mission Manager He is also the Principle Investigator on a NASA Earth Science Technology Office ESTO award entitled An Interoperable Sensor Architecture for Sensor Webs in Pursuit of GEOSS and a Co-Investigator on a NASA ESTO award entitled Using Intelligent Agents to Form a Sensor Webfor Autonomous Operations Stuart Frye is senior systems engineer with over 27 years experience on NASA satellite development launch and on-orbit operations Mr Frye has primarily worked supporting Earth science goals in remote sensing observations of land atmospheres and oceans as the lead interface between the science community and the satellite systems He was Secretariat for the International Committee on Earth Observing Satellites CEOS Working Group on Calibration and Validation from January 2004 through November 2005 He was co-winner of the 2005 NASA Software of the Year award for his role in the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment on-board the Earth Observing One satellite 11 


  12 volume > 0 SOL Time of Day Filter passes by local \(i.e Mars\e of day False Compare Threshold Percentage difference allowed between predicted and actual values to trigger visual discrepancy \(c.f. \223Comparing Predict vs. Actual\224 40 Remove RS Overhead Remove the Reed-Solomon encoding overhead from the displayed RA Volume values Final value = value * 233 255 True Query Re-query data from database N/A Auto-Query Auto-query the data in view according to the time delay selected from the adjacent pull-down menu \(in seconds  Export Export the data in view to csv format \(c.f. \223Export\224 N/A Report Run a JasperSoft report of the selected pass \(c.f. \223Report by Pass\224 N/A   Export Volumes  As mentioned earlier, a primary purpose of this tool is to provide life-of-mission performance data.  Over the course of the early mission, the export function on the \223Overflight Review\224 was used for this purpose. After approximately two months of data had been collected the review page became unresponsively slow to load all the required data This was largely due to the amount of Javascript on the Review page.  So an additional page was added with the purpose of quick export to csv  General Query  Another important use of the RDE tool is ad-hoc analysis To meet this need, we provided a general-purpose query display.  This includes selection of any set of fields as well any number of SQL \223where\224 clauses.  Only the SQL \223add\224 of where clauses are currently supported, \223or\224 is not    Figure 3 \226 General Query View  Drop Dead Uplink Times  Pass plans include a time value called the \223Drop Dead Uplink Time\224.  These times represents the latest possible time that a User GDS team can submit a forward link product to a Relay GDS team and have it delivered via the indicated link    Figure 4 \226 Drop Dead Uplink View  The provided view is not necessarily a great deal better than the current set of pass spread sheets for those who are used to them. However, new functions such as a \223countdown alarm\224 should improve its utility  Overflight Report  Any tabular record in the Review and General Query displays can be selected and vi ewed as a report.  The report view shows all fields for the overflight record in question Underlying this view is the JasperReport software    Figure 5 \226 Example Report  Other Views  Not all of our initial views made the final cut.  Key remaining views include a \223Latest Pass\224 statistics view \(like the Overflight Report auto-update of recent passes utilized 


  13  Use of Web Technologies The web development effort involved a long learning curve for some of the RDE Upgrade development team HTML We used HyperText Markup Language \(HTML\o layout the web framework and page structures AJAX/JSON  The AJAX \(asynchronous JavaScri pt and XML\tern was introduced to support a responsive web GUI.  An implementation of JSON \(JavaScript Object Notation provides the data service inte rface from the web client to a tomcat-maintained servlet. We have run into very few issues with this technology 10 11 12  CSS Cascading Style Sheets \(CSS\provide a straightforward way to manage web page styles. The language is well supported through the open-source FireBug Edito 14  JavaScript We used JavaScript to provide a rich interactive web interface, however our experien ce with JavaScript was not entirely favorable.   The Java Script \(JS approach to APIs including widgets led to our implementing more JS code than we might otherwise have.  We found the 223typeless\224 language occasionally caused confusion.  We did find that it could be \223made to provide\224 a rich web interface though probably a heavier interface than it needs to be.  One real positive for JS is the huge volume of sample code available on the Internet, saving time when dealing with the many implementation problems that spring up JasperReport  We used a toolkit called JasperReport to build a database report we could execute from our web interface.  A JasperReport is edited using the iReport tool. When the report is opened, the JasperSoft library is executed which updates each field from the database and presents the updated report The next section describes some of the \223analysis views\224 that can be generated from data in the RDE store 5  R ELAY A CCOUNTABILITY A NALYSIS  From the start of the Phoenix mission through the current day the RDE tool has been us ed primarily to extract pass statistics for reporting.  The key primary tracked statistic is the total volume of data delivered by each relay spacecraft Typically the \223Export Volumes\224 web view is used for a 223quick\224 export of these data, though the \223General Query\224 view can also be used for this purpose.  Raw tabular data are exported in Comma Separated Value \(CSV\at and then normally imported into an Excel spreadsheet for charting Figure 6 shows the total volume over time from the start of Phoenix mission \(Sol 0\o Sol 120, about a month past the end of prime mission Cumulative Return Link Data Volume 0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 0 30 60 90 120 Sol MRO Cumulative Ret Fill DV MRO Cumulative Ret PHX DV ODY Cumulative Ret Fill DV ODY Cumulative Ret PHX DV   Figure 6 \226 Cumulative Return Link Volume Figure 7 shows the same data values, but charted to show the total data volume transmitted per Sol  Return Link Data Volume by Sol PHX Lander Data + Fill Data 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 0 30 60 90 120 Sol ODY Ret Data Volume \(PHX Data + Fill bits MRO Ret Data Volume \(PHX Data + Fill bits  Figure 7 \226 Data Volume By Sol  On Figure 6 and Figure 7, the Phoenix Data Volume \(DV shown represents actual telemetry data and science product delivered.  The Fill DV on both figures represents \223fill\224 frames that are transmitted when a relay link is open but no actual lander data is available to transmit.  This chart shows that the Odyssey mission has carried the most part of 


  14 Phoenix relay data over MRO.  The low MRO volumes at the very early end of the chart are due to early MRO communications issues with Phoenix that were not resolved until later in the mission.  The volume discrepancies are clearly visible from both charts Figure 8 shows the data volumes for the 128K overflights as a function of Mars LMST \(Local Mean Solar Time 128 kbps Return Link Data Rate 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 0:00:00 6:00:00 12:00:00 18:00:00 0:00:00 Local Mean Solar Time ODY MRO PHX Re q uirement:  30 Mb p ass  Figure 8 \226 Data Volume By Sol  Figure 9 shows a comparison of data volume predicts vs pass performance values  Figure 9 \226 Volume Predicts vs. Performance  6  C ONCLUSIONS  For ASC, the next step is to achieve a level of database independence.  We look to take advantage of emerging best practices technologies and patterns \(e.g. Hibernate  t o  upgrade our core server function to database independence and our Agent Framework to take advantage of a workflow execution function or language such as the Business Process execution Language \(BPEL  RDE is planned for update with the Mars Science Laboratory \(MSL\ission.  This will include any required updates to the planning input s \(MSL will utilize a wider range of relay parameters, including higher data rates multiple frequency channels and possibly new modulation and coding schemes and adaptive data rate functionality and a likely major change in the handling of predicts One significant additional RDE improvement proposed is to develop a web-based tactical interface supporting pass utilization requests and tacti cal updates.  Currently, all tactical relay coordination is accomplished via email and phone.  This process could be greatly improved with the upgrade to of a web-based system.  However, if adopted this upgrade would have a large impact on the current operational tactical process and thus must be carefully engineered across a broad user base  Overall we found we were able to accomplish our primary relay accountability goals using our chosen architecture The ASC server held up as a useful way to manage objectrelational transactions over a distributed network, and our event-driven client mechan isms were assembled in a straightforward manner using the existing ASC Agent Framework as well as the DOM message reactor function Our ability to accomplish this broad integration at a consistently low level of funding tells us that these technologies and patterns are worth pursuing as part of further accountability prototype pilot, and deployment activities A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The work described in this paper was conducted at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Californi a Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  The authors wish to further acknowledge other individuals who made key contributions to research and development including Marti DeMore, Lloyd DeForrest, Derek Kiang Ashley Shamilian, Lori Nakamura, Mark Palm, Priscilla Parrish and Mike Tankenson  


  15 R EFERENCES    http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema   eb Orchestration with BPEL\224 http://www.idealliance.org/pa pers/dx_xml03 papers/0406-01/04-06-01.html  Hi bernat e hom e page www.hibernate.org   Al l a rd, Dan and Hut c herson, Joe, \223C om m uni cat i ons Across Complex Space Networks\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 1-8, 2008  W e b Servi ce Defi ni t i on Language http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl   B a uer, C h ri st i a n and Ki ng Javi n Java Persi s t e nce for Hibernate, New York: Manning Publications, 2007 7] \223Software Agents An Overview\224 http://www.sce.carleton.ca/netm anage/docs/AgentsOverview ao.html  e thodology.org  http://www.riaspot.com artic les/entry/What-is-Ajax  http://www.json.org 11 h ttp to m cat.ap ach e.o r g   12] http://java.sun com/products/servlet  http://www.w3.org/Sty le/CSS    B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 17 years.   He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a message-based ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontologybased distributed communications     Dr. Charles D \(Chad\ards, Jr received his A.B degree in Physics from Princeton University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Physics from the Calif ornia Institute of Technology in 1984.  Since then he has worked at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he currently serves as Manager of the Mars Network Office and as Chief Telecommunications Engineer for the Mars Exploration Program, leading the development of a dedicated orbiting infrastructure at Mars providing essential telecommunications and navi gation capabilities in support of Mars exploration.  Prior to that he managed the Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Office, overseeing a broad program of research and technology development in support of NASA\222s unique capabilities in deep space communications and mission operations.  Earlier in his career, Dr. Edwards worked in the Tracking Systems and Applications section at JPL where he carried out research on novel new radio tracking techniques in support of deep space navigation, planetary science, and radio astronomy  


  16  


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobs, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathmatiques Appliques de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


