 1 Sensor Web Technologies for NASA Earth Science  Karen Moe, Steve Smith, and Glenn Prescott NASA Goddard Space Flight Center 8800 Greenbelt Road Greenbelt, MD 20771 301-286-2978, 301-286-7336, 301-286-9170 Karen.Moe @nasa.gov, Steven.A.Smith@nasa.gov, Glenn.E.Prescott@nasa.gov Rob Sherwood Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Califor nia Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Dr Pasadena, CA 91109 818-393-5378 Rob.Sherwood@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract Recent technological advancements in microelectronics, wireless communications, intelligent systems and networking have led to the conceptualized notion of a web” of sensors, interconnected and interacting with one another to provide observations and measurements of geophysical phenomena, and routing data \(or information 
directly to researchers, scientists and other destinations including forecast models and data archives\This is the concept that we call the “sensor web.” A vision for NASA sensor webs for Earth science is to enable “on-demand sensing of a broad array of environmental and ecological phenomena across a wide range of spatial and temporal scales, from a heterogeneous suite of sensors both in situ and in orbit This paper takes a high level view of sensor webs describing their characteristics and giving examples of how NASA sees these systems contributing to our knowledge of the world in which we live. Examples of sensor web prototypes and research highlights will be presented from some of the research project s recently funded by the NASA Earth Science Technology Office and currently underway in universities, industries and NASA research centers 
throughout the country. The paper concludes by imagining how sensor webs will be used in the future and describing the key research technologies th at will be needed to fully realize this vision 1  2   T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION AND B ACKGROUND  1  2  S ENSOR W EBS FOR NASA  E ARTH S CIENCE  2  
3  NASA  F UNDED S ENSOR W EB T ECHNOLOGIES  3  4  T ECHNICAL C HALLENGES IN I MPLEMENTING S ENSOR W EBS  5  5  F UTURE OF S ENSOR W EBS FOR NASA  E ARTH S 
CIENCE   A N E XAMPLE  6  6  N EXT S TEP S 6 R EFERENCES  6  B IOGRAPHY  7    1 1-4244-1488-1/08/$25 00 ©2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1282, Version 1, Updated October 30, 2007  1  I NTRODUCTION AND B ACKGROUND 
 The sensor web concept is at least one generation beyond the popular sensor network, which is a relatively straightforward interconnection of sensors that route measurements to a central data collection point. While the concept of networked sensors is not new NASA’s sensor web concept involves networked sensors that can interact and dynamically change their state to meet the demands of the environment into which they are placed. These sensors may be tiny motes 3 or more robust in situ nodes on the Earth’s surface or in the oceans. Or they may be sensors on balloons, aircraft or unmanne d vehicles, or orbiting on spacecraft. The sensors are envi sioned to interact in an environment that leverages information from many sources 
analysis systems and predic tive models, real time event detection systems, or observation goals driven by science or decision support system needs. Leveraging and expanding on Internet web technologies, sensor web systems coordinate and interoperate to adaptively respond to events and create customized data \(or information\s on demand. Many technologies needed to implement this vision are currently in the res earch stage. However, limited versions of sensor webs have already been demonstrated and new enabling technologies ar e being developed, as we will show later The primary distinguishing feature of the sensor web is that the individual sensors adapt themselves within their environment in response to the collective measurements made by all sensors in the network. This concept was 
defined and published in 2002 by Delin i n a paper whose title embodies the very de finition that we use today The Sensor Web: A Macro Instrument for Coordinated Sensing.” Early work by Delin and others at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory helped to focus emerging capabilities in communications, networking and processing on a new way of collecting environmental data. They recognized that miniature, power efficient tran sceivers and microprocessors   3 A mote is a very small \(often no bigge r than a quarter co in power computer that monitors one or more sensors and connects to the outside world via a radio link 


 2 using a large data and program storage capability, would enable sensors to function as independent entities communicating when needed with other sensors in the network Since the early work at JPL and even dating back into the last decade, there has been an explosion in terminology surrounding networks, each indi cating some subtle but noteworthy characteristic.  For example, papers on wireless mesh networks, distributed sensor networks, self-organizing sensor networks and ad-hoc wireless networks are now common. Other government agencies such as the National Science Foundation \(NSF\he Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency \(DARPA\ng many of these, and other kinds of wireless network technologies 2  S ENSOR W EBS FOR NASA  E ARTH S CIENCE  The NASA Advanced Information Systems Technology AIST\ aims to advance the use of emerging technologies for space based Ea rth science research and applications. The evolving sensor web vision is to enable on-demand sensing of a broad array of environmental and ecological phenomena across a wide range of spatial and temporal scales, from a heterogeneous suite of sensors both in situ and in orbit.” This vision, adapted from the National Science Foundation’s 2003 vision statement for the Environmental Cyberinfrastru cture Needs for Distributed Sensor Networks  ext e nds t h e concept of sensor networks to encompass a real-time responsiveness for a diverse set of space and gr ound assets, including sensors and processing nodes, dynamically assembled to work towards a common goal. Figure 1 depicts three scenarios to reflect the broad scope of this concept The goal of NASA’s sensor web approach is to employ new data acquisition strategies and systems for integrated Earth sensing that are responsive to environmental events for both application and scientific purposes. Sensor webs can achieve science objectives be yond the abilities of a single platform by 1\ng response time \(where events unfold rapidly or where time is otherwise constrained increasing the scientific value, quantity, or quality of the observation \(where unique science criteria are met, or when co-incident observations are possible\ enabling collaboration among sensing and analysis assets At the  a definition emerged to capture this vision. The sensor web is a coordinated observation infrastructure composed of distributed resources that can behave as a single autonomous, task-able, reconfigurable observing system that provides observed and derived data along with the associated metadata by using a set of standards-based service oriented interfaces. Key sensor web features include the ability to obtain targeted observations through dynamic tasking requests, the ability to incorporate feedback \(e.g forecasts onomous operations and dynamic reconfiguration, and improve d ease of access to data and information One challenge is that the scope and content implied in the term ‘sensor web’ is debated within the technology Figure 1 – Sensor Web Operations Concept 


 3 community and its benefits and capabilities are not commonly known within the Earth science and application community. The difference between sensor webs and the better-known wireless ‘sensor networks’ and other cyber infrastructure constructs is evolving. Distinguishing the two is helpful in understanding the evolutionary concepts presented here The Wikipedia describes wireless sensor networks as consisting of spatially distributed autonomous devices using sensors to cooperatively monitor physical or environmental conditions at different locations. Typically, sensor networks emphasize technology to support robust power and communications technology, based on its heritage from military applications, notably battlefield operations. Small autonomous wireless motes are deployed to monitor the environment and transmit data. Wireless communication protocols, network topologies, distributed and collaborative signal processing, microcontrollers, energy issues miniaturization, low replication costs, and similar themes dominate the technology drivers for sensor networks Related themes of intelligent sensors, target recognition sensor fusion, situational awareness, and machine learning among others, demonstrate that sensor networks concepts are rapidly evolving The sensor web concept builds on this foundation to emphasize the heterogeneous nature of space and ground sensors. The vision addresses space-based sensors, each unique and complex, collaborating with in situ sensors including sensor networks \(e.g., seismic monitoring networks\ch can dynamically collaborate with data processing systems \(e.g., onboard event detection\or forecast systems \(e.g., event prediction\ically respond to science or hazard monitoring goals Figure 2 depicts the architect ural concept of the Earth science sensor web. Internal to a dynamically assembled sensor web are the sensors, sensor networks and perhaps even other sensor webs configured for a specific timelimited purpose. Computational resources, like satellite and ground-based processors and storage, support both science drivers such as event detection and the coordination of sensor web resources. Implicit throughout the architecture is a communication fabric, leveraging web technologies and optimized for sensor web activities. External to a sensor web one finds other sensor webs and sensor networks Available resources, both data and services, are discoverable in service registries and data archives. External models play a role in interacting with models linked into a sensor web configuration. All of these resources support users through decision support systems for societal benefits and data systems and models for education and science analysis. We believe that evolving the sensor web concept will help our Earth science community benefit from the integrated perspective of many emerging technology fields to support dynamic science objectives on demand Sensor Web Command/ Control/ Coordination Computational Resources Models Internal Sensors/ Sensor Networks Sensor Webs  Sensor Web Command/ Control/ Coordination Computational Resources Models Internal Sensors/ Sensor Networks Sensor Webs Decision Support System Decision Support System Sensor Networks Sensor Networks Sensor Web 1   Sensor Web n Sensor Web 1   Sensor Web n Service Registry Service Registry Applications Other Systems Applications Other Systems User Communities Scientists / Educators Policy / Gov Portals User Communities Scientists / Educators Policy / Gov Portals Models Models Data Storage Archive Data Storage Archive Sensor Web Command/ Control/ Coordination Computational Resources Models Internal Sensors/ Sensor Networks Sensor Webs Sensor Web Command/ Control/ Coordination Computational Resources Models Internal Sensors/ Sensor Networks Sensor Webs Decision Support System Decision Support System Sensor Networks Sensor Networks Sensor Web 1   Sensor Web n Sensor Web 1   Sensor Web n Service Registry Service Registry Applications Other Systems Applications Other Systems User Communities Scientists / Educators Policy / Gov Portals User Communities Scientists / Educators Policy / Gov Portals Models Models Data Storage Archive Data Storage Archive  Figure 2 – Sensor Web Architecture Diagram 3  NASA  F UNDED S ENSOR W EB T ECHNOLOGIES  NASA’s Earth sensing fleet is evolving into constellations of smart satellites that can be reconfigured based on the changing needs of science and technology. The AIST program envisions intelligent and integrated sensor webs to provide on-demand data and analysis to users. The major systems within the sensor web include  The remote sensing components in the sensing system which perform data acquisition \(e.g., spacecraft, smart sensors\stem control \(autonomous or externally provided\ng \(science data product  The communications components throughout, which support connectivity among sensors and between sensors and processing and control  The key system components interacting with the sensor web which do science analysis and data assimilation in prediction models and decision support systems 3.1. Smart Sensors in the Sensor Web Smart sensing implies sophistication in the sensors themselves. The goal of smart sensing is to enable autonomous event detection and reconfiguration.  Research areas include  Communication of the sensor with the system including interfacing with certain system protocols and sensor addressability, in which sensors can identify themselves and interpret selective signals from the system, providing output only on demand  Diagnostics to inform the system of an impending failure or to signal that a failure has occurred, as well as self-healing sensors  Onboard processing \(up to and including science data products, as appropriate\self-describing sensor languages and actuation logic One existing smart sensing project is the Autonomous Disturbance Detection and Monitoring System for UAVSAR \(ADDMS  ADDM S com b ines the unique capabilities of imaging radar with high throughput onboard 


 4 processing technology and onboard automated response capability based on specific science algorithms Figure 3 contains a block di agram of ADDMS.  Raw data from the radar observation are routed to the onboard processor via a high-speed se rial interface. The onboard processor will perform SAR image formation in real time on two raw data streams, which could be data of two different polarization combinations or data from two different interferometric channels The onboard processor will generate real-time high-resolution imagery for both channels. The onboard pro cessor will also execute calibration routines and science algorithms appropriate for the specific radar application. Autonomous detection is performed by an intelligent software routine designed to detect specific disturbances based on the results of science processing. If no change is detected, the process stops and the results are logged. If “change” due to specific disturbances is detected, the onboard automated response software will plan new observations to continue monitoring the progression of the disturbance. The new observation plan is routed to the spacecraf t or aircraft computer to retarget the platform for new radar observations   Radar  SAR image formation Calibration Science algorithms Raw data Change Downlink data Onboard automated response No Yes Retarget for new observation goals Onboard processor Stop 3 3 4  Figure 3 – ADDMS Block Diagram The ADDMS team is also deve loping interfaces to existing sensor webs to conduct autonomous observation of specific science events based on external triggers from other sensors in the sensor web. This smart sensor technology has the potential to provide key informa tion for disaster and hazards management in the event of an earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, flood, and wildfire 3.2. Sensor Web Communication Issues A fundamental element of the sensor web is the communications and networking infrastructure that tie all nodes together. One can view the communications component as the strands of the web, acting as the most critical enabling technology to allow all of the independent nodes to function as a single body While high quality of service is an important requirement for any communication network servicing NASA measurement missions, there are several important communications and networking issues that are unique to sensor webs.  For example, protocols, power and algorithms define how effectively the web functions as a whole Protocols are used to define and enable the network. In the discovery process all nodes locate one another and connect to their nearest neighbor. Procedures for dealing with unstable links, and node failures are built into these protocols. Once connectivity has been established the routing of information within the sensor web is defined Internet routing protocols, and conventional packet radio protocols are not the best choice for sensor webs.  Emerging standards are being developed for in situ sensors in the form of the IEEE 802.15.4 \(ZigBee funded by AIST to examines the protocol issue in the context of very specialized applications, such as an underwater sensor web. Research such as this involves examining new network concepts all the way down to the physical layer Another issue of importance is power. Radio Frequency communications is the most power-consuming component of the node.  Since most nodes have extremely limited power supplies, extraordinary measures must be taken to optimize the use of transmitted RF energy. This may lead to multiple short hops among nodes rather than longer-range connections. In many cases the duty cycle for communicating between nodes is low — long intervals of inactivity followed by multiple transmission bursts. It is therefore not efficient to ha ve the transmitter and receiver powered on during times of inactivity Algorithms are an essential component in all aspects of the sensor web, but in the context of communication and networking, this is the component that defines the interactions between the node and the network.  Algorithms are required for discovering location as well as synchronizing and initializing the nodes.  They are also important for more mundane housekeeping functions such as controlling the sleep/awake cycle of the transmitter and receiver 3.3. Model Interactions in Sensor Webs A key feature of sensor webs is the ability to respond to events, either events detect ed by sensors or forecasted events such as hurricane landf all. The AIST program seeks techniques to tie prediction models and analysis tools to the sensor web framework to enable two-way interaction between the analysis systems and the sensing systems. A service oriented architecture notably the Open Geospatial Consortium \(OGC\eb Enablement framework, is central to many of the projects. The Sensor Modeling Language \(SensorML\echniques for creating viewing, validating, mining and executing SensorML 


 5   Under AIST t y pi cal  appl i cat i ons of SensorML technology like discovery, implementation, and process execution will be supported with open source tools Other projects directly tackle the middleware layers enabling self-adaptive prediction systems and on-demand modeling by producing inter operability technology suites see Figure 4\. These projects will provide feedback to the OGC community to ensure that resulting standard protocols and interfaces accommodate the demands of orbiting satellites as well as in situ sensor networks Several related technologies support middleware interoperability. Semantic web concepts, notably ontologies for describing sensors and services, using the Web Ontology Language \(OWL\he World Wide Web Consortium W3C\elp with discovery and workflow management. Workflow engines and planning and scheduling algorithms incorporating feedback loops are used to aggregate sensors and services in support of science applications. Intelligent agents help users to discover sensors and services in addition to enabling autonomous operations Creating simulated environments using sensor web technologies enables another category of model applications within the AIST program. These sensor web simulators allow rapid exploration of dynamically configured science scenarios, such as air quality measurements or coupling interdisciplinary model and data assimilation systems for weather forecasting. Using such sensor web simulators will allow science campaign planners or satellite mission planners to quantify the science return of a functional model-driven sensor web 4  T ECHNICAL C HALLENGES IN I MPLEMENTING S ENSOR W EBS  Technical challenges in implementing sensor webs lie not only at the hardware and software level, but at the system level as well.  Hardware may be the least difficult challenge since the trend in electronics over the past half century has driven toward small size and low power consumption with ever increasing capability and performance Power management features are now an integral part of processors; transceivers now routinely have inactive sleep modes and operating voltage levels are dropping. More efficient processors and trans ceivers mean increased battery life or less power needed from solar cells. This permits in situ sensor webs to operate longer in their environment and collect more scientific data. However migrating high performance processing to these constrained environments to support intelligent operations and real-time data processing will continue to be a challenge. Similarly software processing environments to reduce the complexity of software development for onboard processing architectures will be needed Increased storage size and speed is another impact on sensor webs.  Processor advances and larger storage size permit more complex protocols and network configuration algorithms to be implemented.  Eventually signal processing at the smallest sensor will be possible, so information and not just data — can be distributed throughout the network. Flight storage systems lag far behind the storage capacity advances found in desktop computing. When these capabilities are realized, the notion of intelligence within the sensor web can be fully realized At the system level, many challenges still remain.  In fact Figure 4 – System of Systems Interoperability Framework [6 


 6 the task of tying it all together to realize the loftiest goals of the sensor web are all system level challenges. Issues such as cross-platform interoperability and cross-standards interoperability will need to be addressed. Intelligent agents are being investigated to enable autonomous collaboration and control. The building blocks of service oriented architectures \(SOA early stages of development for Earth science applications; the space segment will pose unique challenges Web services and associated re gistries are just beginning to proliferate. Service orchestration procedures and protocols are likely in the early stage of development. Benefits of the semantic web to enable intelligent agents to discover data and service resources are a long way from realization Issues of data provenance and quality in dynamically configured sensor webs will require a concerted effort in the Earth science community. In order for web services to become more routinely used si gnificant advances in security will also be needed. Methods developed for commercial applications will likely be leveraged for sensor webs but the implications of space-based assets will be challenging Reconfiguring and integrating the varied system components to function in an end-to-end environment will be a difficult achievement in the large scale. Fortunately applying state-of-the-art technology and emerging SOA management techniques have proven effective for proof-ofconcept  5  F UTURE OF S ENSOR W EBS FOR NASA  E ARTH S CIENCE   A N E XAMPLE  A sentinel satellite spots a region of interest event in progress and tasks other space ba sed, airborne, and in situ resources to provide higher spatial and temporal imagery and measurements of the event.  Earth and water based sensors are tasked, as appropriate.  Unmanned Aerial Vehicles \(UAV\anned ai rcraft are scrambled to monitor the event, and multiple satellites are tasked to provide various measurements Standardized interfaces and protocols allow for the seamless interchange of information Distributed control centers command and control their specific assets, while responding to schedule requests for resources from one or more external region of interest ROI\rol centers.  Data is provided, as requested, to various archiving and modeling centers in formats that are readily ingestible and provide standardized meta-data about both the data generated and sensor providing it.  Results from real time event monitoring, relevant model execution and on-site commands provide near real time tasking modifications to necessary assets to complete the campaign in  Onboard autonomous decision making software takes inputs from both controllers and external sources, e.g., models other assets, human-in-the-loop, to make onboard tasking decisions, onboard data processing, and ROI data reduction processing, and mining to provide specific products regarding specific regions of th e survey.  These results are input into additional, enhanced model runs, as well as other ancillary data from assets and real time responders, to further enhance additional commanding of assets to improve the overall data gain and maximum Earth science from the event 6  N EXT S TEPS  This vision of a seamless, heterogeneous platform-based inter-discipline and domain oriented command, control communication, and data processing, modeling and analysis sensor web will require further investments. Refinements are anticipated in onboard processing, data communication protocols and standards, common sensor description language, commonality of da ta sharing and mining common data formats, translators, and control system protocols for asset prioritization and assignment. Also, we envision a seemingly ubiquitous parts replacement approach for the constantly expanding and morphing entity that will be the Earth science sensor web of sensor webs; a system of systems where science, applica tions, and education start to meld R EFERENCES    K Del i n  The Sensor W e b A M acro-Inst rum e nt for Coordinated Sensing,” Sensors 2002, Vol. 2, 270-285    NSF Sponsored W o rkshop R e port   Envi ronm ent a l  Cyberinfrastructure Needs for Distributed Sensor Networks,” Scripps Inst. of Oceanography, August 2003  from  the Earth Science Technology Office \(EST\Information Systems Technology \(AIST\eb Technology Meeting San Diego, February 2007   Y Lou S Hensl e y  C  Le, D. M o l l e r, “Onboard Processor for Direct Distribution of Ch ange Detection,” IEEE Radar Conference and Proceedings, Philadelphia, April 2004  M  B o t t s L. M c Kee, “A Sensor M odel  Language  M ovi ng Sensor Data onto the Internet,” Sensors Magazine  www.sensorsmag.org l 2003 6 e, “Th e Sen s o r-An a lysis-Mo d e l In tero p e rab ility Technology Suite \(SAMITS\hrup Grumman, 2007  D. M a ndl Experi m e nt i ng wi t h Sensor W e bs Usi ng Eart h Observing 1,” IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings vol. 1, pp. 183, March 2004  M  R y schkewi t s ch, “Eart h Sci e nce Vi si on Int r oduct i on Draft, November 9, 1998 


 7 B IOGRAPHY  Karen Moe is a Program Manager in the Earth Science Technology Office \(ESTO\ at the Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD spearheading technology infusion efforts for the NASA earth science sensor web program. She represents NASA on the Sensor Web Task Team for the international Working Group on Information Systems and Services addressing the Global Earth Observing System of Systems \(GEOSS\. She holds an MSEE in Computer Engineering from the University of Maryland, College Park, and has received two Goddard Exceptional Achievement Awards for technology leadership Steve Smith is Program Manager Advanced Information Systems Technology \(AIST\ program, Earth Science Technology Office \(ESTO a NASA Headquarters Science Mission Directorate, Earth Science Division function located at the Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt, MD.  He holds a B.S. in Mathematics from the University of Maryland, College Park, and an M.S. in Technical Management, Whiting School of Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University Steven has received numerous Special Act Group Awards the NASA Exceptional Performance Award, and the Silver Snoopy Award from the NASA Astronaut Corps Glenn Prescott is a Professor of Electrical Engineering at the University of Kansas where he teaches classes in information theory, digital communications and digital signal processing. His active research areas are communications and radar signal processing, and he is a Co-Investigator with the Center for Remote Sensing of Ice Sheets \(CReSIS\, a National Science Foundation Science and Technology Center established at the University of Kansas.  Dr. Prescott also works with the NASA Earth Science Technology Office as a Program Executive for Technology in the Advanced Information Systems Technology Program. Dr. Prescott received the Ph.D. and B.E.E.  from Georgia Inst of Tech and the M.S.E.E. from the Univ of Missouri  Rob Sherwood is Manager, Earth Science Information Systems and the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment Manager at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology. He holds a B.S. in Aerospace Engineering from University of Colorado at Boulder, a M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California at Los Angeles and an M.B.A. from LoyolaMarymount University. Robert has received 7 NASA Achievement Awards for his work in Spacecraft Mission Operations and Mission Autonomy Applications 


  8 B IOGRAPHIES  Grant Anderson is Vice President Engineering/Chief Engineer and Founder of Paragon Space Development Corporation. He has 23 years of experience in spacecraft systems design, requirements formulation and preliminary and detail hardware design specializing in spacecraft arch itecture, spacecraft systems engineering, life support systems design and analysis establishing and leading technical teams toward welldefined goals and requirements, and maintaining expert teams of engineers and administrative personnel on goals that demonstrate technical excellence. He is formerly the Chief Design Engineer for the International Space Station Solar Arrays when emplo yed by Lockheed Martin Mr. Anderson is affiliated with American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics \(AIAA\ \(Senior Member Deputy Director\, Society of Automotive Engineers \(SAE and former Member, AIAA National Design Engineering Committee on Standards Boards of Advisors. He has a BSME from Stanford University and MS Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University    Dr. Christine Iacomini is Director of Research and Development.  She is currently Principle Investigator on three NASA SBIR Phase 2 contracts. She also served as Project Lead for the SBIR Phase 2 \223Integral Radiators for Next Generation Thermal Control\224, from which Paragon incorporated radiator development technology into the Orion Program winning bid by Lockheed Martin.. Her affiliation with NASA began in 1989 as a cooperative engineering intern at NASA Johnson Space Center, while earning her B.S. in Engineering from Purdue. She has a M.S. in Aerospace Engineering from The University of Texas, applying GPS data to in-space relative positioning and shuttle orbit determination. In 1996, Dr. Iacomini hired on at NASA JSC as an engineer and served as one of the X-38 parafoil Principle Investigators,. In 1999 she left NASA to earn her Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering at the University of Arizona, focusing on thermal sciences  


  9  


maintenance and catching and sanctioning cheaters Moreover, game play and chat in the GU league differ from public server play, in that GU league play emphasizes teamwork and cooperation among players over individual prowess, whereas in public server play, individual differences in skill and the advantages of superflags can result in the appearance of unfair advantage, leading to taunting and complaining. These limitations could be addressed by analyzing a wider range of BZFlag activities and contexts Analysis of chat in other MOGs is also necessary in order to test the claim that chat differs systematically in MMORPGs and FPSs. Although the present study was limited to text chat, in-game voice chat is a growing trend in MOGs. Future research should analyze audio conversations, so as to determine the effects of modality on in-game chatting. Other methods, such as eye tracking, could also be used to investigate empirically how user attention is distributed dynamically across features of game interfaces Finally, the methods used in this study could be extended to non-gaming environments in which chat cooccurs with other media use. This would provide a broader comparative base from which to generalize about chat and chatability in coactive media  8. References  1 C h e r ny L  1999 Conversation and community: Chat in a virtual world Stanford, CA: CSLI 2 Crawf o r d  C. \(1 9 8 4   The art of computer game design  Berkeley, CA: Osborne/McGraw-Hill  Du ch en eau t N  M o o r e R  J 2 0 0 4   T h e so cial sid e o f  gaming: A study of interaction patterns in a massively multiplayer online game Proceedings of CSCW 2004 NY ACM  Du ch en eau t  N  Yee N  Nickell E   M o o r e R J  2006\. "Alone together?": exploring the social dynamics of massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 5 H a hs le r, M K o c h S. \(20 0 4  p e r a tio n a nd dis r uptive behaviour - Learning from a multi-player internet gaming community. In P. Kommers, P. Isaias, & M. B. Nunes Eds IADIS International Conference Web Based Communities 2004 pp. 35-42\ Lisbon: IADIS 6 Herrin g S. C  1 9 9 9 a  ter actio n a l co h e ren ce i n CMC  Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 4 1 http://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol4/issue1/herring.html 7 H e rring S. C  1 99 9b T h e rhe t oric a l dy nam i c s of  g e nde r harassment online The Information Society, 15 3\, 151-167 8 H e r r i ng S. C   200 3 D y nam i c topic a n a l y s is o f sy nchronous chat. In New Research for New Media: Innovative Research Methodologies Symposium Working Papers Minneapolis: U Minn School of Journalism and Mass Comm http://ella.slis.indiana.edu/~herring/dta.2003.pdf 9 H e rring S C K u r t z  A  J  20 06 V i s u a liz ing D y na m ic Topic Analysis Proceedings of CHI 06 NY: ACM  1 Ko K-K 19 96   S t ru ct u r al ch aracteristics o f co m p u t ermediated language: A comparative analysis of InterChange discourse Electronic Journal of Communication, 6 3 http://www.cios.org 11 L o je sk i, K S Re illy R  Dom i nic k P  2 00 7 u ltitasking and innovation in virtual teams Proceedings of HICSS-39 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 12  Ma g lio P P   Ca m pbe ll, C. S 2 0 00 T r a d e o ff s in displaying peripheral information Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems  New York: ACM 13 Ma n n i n e n T  K u ja np   T  2005 T h e hunt f o r c o llaborative war gaming - CASE: Battlefield 1942 Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research 5 1\ http://www.gamestudies.org/0501/manninen_kujanpaa 14 Ma rk G G udith, D  K l oc k e U  200 8 h e c o s t of  interrupted work: More speed and stress Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 15 N a rdi, B H a rris  J  2006 ng e r s a nd f r ie nds  Collaborative play in World of Warcraft Proceedings of CSCW 2006 pp. 149-158\ew York: ACM 16 N a rdi, B L y S H a rris   J  20 07 e a r ning c onv e r sations in World of Warcraft Proceedings of HICSS 40 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 17 O l de nb ur g  R   1 9 89  The great good place: Cafes coffee shops, bookstores, bars, hair salons and other hangouts at the heart of a community NY: Paragon Books 18  P e a J   H a nc oc k  J  T  20 06 A n a n a l y s is of s o cioemotional and task communication in online multiplayer video games Communication Research, 33 1\, 92-109 19  Ste i nk ue hle r  C 2 0 06 M a ssiv e l y  m u ltipla y e r online  videogaming as participation in a discourse Mind, Culture and Activity, 13 1\, 38-52 20 Ste i nk ue hle r C W illia m s D. \(200 6 h e r e e v e r y body knows your \(screen\me: Online games as "third places Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 11 4\://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol11/issue4/steinkuehler.html 21 W i k i pe dia  2 0 0 8  J une 15  Coactive media  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coactive_media 22 W r ig ht, T Boria  E Bre ide nba c h  P. \(20 02 Cre a tive player actions in FPS online video games: Playing Counter-Strike Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research, 2 2\ http://www.game studies.org/0202/wright 23  Ze le nk a u s k a ite A  H e rri ng S. C  2 00 8 T e le v i s i onmediated conversation: Coherence in Italian iTV SMS chat Proceedings of HICSS 41 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


