Mining High Transaction-Weighted Utility Itemsets   Guo-Cheng Lan Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering National Cheng Kung University Tainan, Taiwan, R.O.C rrfoheiay@idb.csie.ncku.edu.tw Tzung-Pei Hong Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering National University of Kaohsiung Department of Computer Science and Engineering National Sun Yat-sen University Kaohsiung, Taiwan, R.O.C tphong@nuk.edu.tw Vincent S. Tseng Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering Institute of Medical Informatics  National Cheng Kung University Tainan, Taiwan, R.O.C tsengsm@mail.ncku.edu.tw   Abstract In this paper, we design a new kind of patterns named high transaction-weighted utility itemsets, which considers not only individual profits and quantities of the items in a transaction, but also the contribution of each transaction in a database. We also propose a two-phased mining algorithm to discover high transaction-weighted utility itemsets. The experimental results on synthetic datasets show the proposed approach has a good performance Keywords: data mining; utility mining; two-phase mining high utility itemsets; high transaction-weighted utility itemsets I   I NTRODUCTION  Mining association rules [1 s an i m p o r tan t is su e i n th e  field of data mining due to its wide applications. Traditional association rules are, however, derived from frequent itemsets, which only consider the occurrence of items but do not reflect any other factors, such as price or profit. Chan et al thus proposed the utility mining to solve the problem They considered both individual profits and quantities of products \(items\ transactions, and used them to find out actual utility values of itemsets. Several other researches about utility mining were proposed in these years      17 18 1 9  Weighted mining has recently been proposed, in which transactions are attached with weighted values according to some criteria [3   13 1 6]. It i s i m p o r t a n t  be ca use i f  the same significance is assumed for all the transactions in a database, some interesting association rules may not be found by traditional mining. However, the actual significance of an itemset cannot be easily recognized In this study, we thus consider transaction weights and introduce a new kind of patterns, called high transactionweighted utility itemsets. The proposed patterns consider not only individual profits and quantities of products in transactions but also utility contribution of transactions in a database. Moreover, a two-phased mining algorithm is also proposed for effectively and efficiently finding the high transaction-weighted utility itemsets from a transactional database The mining process of the proposed algorithm can be divided into two phases. In the first phase, the possible candidate transaction-weighted utility itemsets are found level by level. In the second phase, the candidate transaction-weighted utility itemsets are further checked for their actual utility values by an additional database scan Finally, the itemsets with their actual weighted-utility values larger than or equal to a predefined threshold are output as the high transaction-weighted utility itemsets. The experimental results on synthetic datasets also show the good performance of the proposed approach  II  R ELATED W ORKS  In this section, some related researches are briefly reviewed. They are utility mining and weighted associationrule mining A  Utility Mining In association-rule mining, only binary itemsets are considered. However, products bought in transactions may contain profits and quantities in real-world applications Especially, some high-profit products may occur with low frequencies in a database. The high-profit but low-frequency itemsets may not be found in traditional association-rule mining approaches Chan et al thus proposed utility mining to discover high utility itemsets [4 T h e y co n s id ered n o t o n l y th e q u an t itie s of the items in a product combination but also their profits Formally, local transaction utility and external utility are used to measure the utility of an item. The local transaction utility of an item is directly obtained from the information stored in a transaction dataset, like the quantity of the item sold in a transaction. The external utility of an item is given by users, like its profit Liu et al then proposed a two-phased algorithm to discover high utility itemsets from a database by adopting the downward-closure property  T h e y n a m e d t h e i r approach as the transaction-weighted-utilization TWU  model. It used the whole utility of a transaction as the upper bound of an itemset in that transaction to keep the downward-closure property. It consisted of two phases. In phase 1, the model found out possible candidate itemsets from a database. In phase 2, the database was rescanned again to update the actual utility of the possible candidate itemsets and found the ones with their actual utility values larger than or equal to a predefined threshold \(called the 
2010 Second International Conference on Computer Engineering and Applications 978-0-7695-3982-9/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICCEA.2010.69 314 


minimum utility threshold\. Several other algorithms for utility mining were also proposed [6 7 7  1 8   1 9   an d  some related studies are still in progress [5 5    B  Weighted Association-Rule Mining Weighted association-rule mining [3  12 13 16  i s  concerned with the analysis of significance of items or transactions in a set of data. It is proposed to find out different kinds of interesting patterns from a set of data with item weight or transaction weight. The weights in these approaches may be thought of as an extension of traditional support in association-rule mining. Weighted association rules can be discovered in a variety of forms, like weighted association rules, fuzzy weighted association rules, and weighted utility association rules Lu et al proposed a new mixed weighted mining model  fi n d i ng w e i ght e d  a ssoc i a t i o n  r u l e s fro m a s e t  o f  d a t a   The weighted rules might provide more useful and interesting information to decision makers in many applications such as retail marketing, data stream, medical data analysis, and among others Khan et al then discovered weighted utility association rules from a database by considering both quantities of items sold in a single transaction and weight values of items given by experts [10  In th ei r m odel  th e t r an s acti o n w e ig h t ed  utility measure is used to find out all weighted utility association rules from a set of data. However, the model did not consider the actual utility of itemsets in a database. If we consider both the actual utility of itemsets and the weight values of transactions in a database, we may find out different interesting patterns. In this paper, both utility contribution of itemsets and transactions are thus considered instead of only one perspective of transactions in the weighted utility association rule model  III  T HE P ROPOSED M INING A LGORITHM  A  The proposed algorithm for finding high transactionweighted utility itemsets The proposed algorithm for finding high transactionweighted utility itemsets can be divided into two phases Phase 1 first finds all the possible candidate transactionweighted utility itemsets from a database. Next, phase 2 scans the database again to find the actual weighted utility values of the possible candidate transaction-weighted utility itemsets and judge whether they are high transactionweighted utility itemsets HTWUI he details of the proposed algorithm are listed below The algorithm   INPUT 1\A set of m items I  i 1 i 2 i j i m each i j  with a profit value p j  j 1 to m  2\ transaction database D  Trans 1 Trans 2  Trans n in which each transaction includes a subset of items with quantities 3\The minimum weighted-utility threshold   OUTPUT The set of high transaction-weighted utility itemsets Phase 1 STEP 1 For each y th transaction Trans y in the set of transactions D do the following substeps a\alculate the utility value u yz of each z th item i yz in Trans y as  q  s u yz yz yz   where s yz  is the profit of item i yz  and q yz is the quantity of i yz  b\late the transaction utility tu y of the transaction Trans y as   u tu z yz y   STEP 2 Calculate the total transaction utility ttu in the set of transactions D as   tu ttu y y   STEP 3 For each y-th transaction Transy in the set of transactions D, do the following substeps a\late the transaction-utility weight of Trans y as    ttu tu tuw y y   b\alculate the transaction-weighted utility of Trans y as  tuw  tu twu y y y   STEP 4 Calculate the transaction-weighted utility upper bound ub z of each item i z as the summation of the transaction-weighted utilities of the transactions which include i z That is   tu  tuw ub y Trans i y y y z    STEP 5 Check whether the transaction-weighted utility upper bound of an item i z is larger than or equal to  If i z satisfies the above condition, put it in the set of candidate transaction-weighted utility 1-itemsets C 1 That is    1    1 m z ub i C y z       STEP 6 Set r 1, where r represents the number of items in the current set of candidate transactionweighted utility itemsets C r o be processed STEP 7 Generate the candidate set C r+1 from C r with all the r sub-itemsets in each candidate in C r+1 must be contained in C r  STEP 8 Calculate the transaction-weighted utility upper bound ub s of each candidate transactionweighted utility r+1 itemset as the summation of the transaction-weighted utilities of the transactions which include s That is   y Trans s y s tu tuw ub y    STEP 9 Check whether the transaction-weighted utility upper bound of each candidate r 1\itemsets s  
315 


is larger than or equal to  002 If s does not satisfy the above condition, remove it from C r+1 That is       1 1   003 005  r s r C original s ub s C New 002  STEP 10 If C r+1 is null, do the next step; otherwise, set r  r 1 and repeat STEPs 7 to 10  Phase 2 STEP 11 For each candidate transaction-weighted utility itemset s calculate its actual transactionweighted utility value twu s as follows      y Trans ss i yz s tuw u twu yz 000¶\000 006\003   where u yz is the utility value of each item i z in transaction Trans y and tuw y is the transactionutility weight of transaction Trans y in D  STEP 12 Check whether the actual transaction-weighted utility value twu s of each candidate transactionweighted utility itemset s is larger than or equal to  002 If s satisfies the above condition, put it in the set of high transaction-weighted utility itemsets HTWUI That is      C s twu s HTWUI s 003 005  002  where C is the set of all the candidate transaction-weighted utility itemsets STEP 13 Output the set of high transaction-weighted utility itemsets in HTWUI   IV  A N E XAMPLE  In this section, an example is given to demonstrate the proposed mining algorithm based on the concept of transaction-weighted utility of itemsets. This is a simple example to show how the proposed algorithm can be easily used to find out the high transaction-weighted utility itemsets from a set of transactions. Assume the ten transactions shown in TABLE I are used for mining. Each transaction consists of two features, transaction identification TID d items purchased. There are four items in the database, respectively denoted A to D The value attached to each item is the quantity sold in the transaction TABLE I   T HE SET OF TEN TRANSACTIONS IN THIS EXAMPLE  TID A B C D Trans 1  1 0 1 14 Trans 2  0 0 6 0 Trans 3  1 0 2 4 Trans 4  0 1 4 0 Trans 5  0 0 3 1 Trans  6  0 0 1 13 Trans  7  0 0 8 0 Trans 8  4 0 0 7 Trans 9  0 1 1 10 Trans 10  0 1 0 18  Also assume that the predefined profit value for each single item is defined in TABLE II TABLE II  T HE PREDEFINED PROFIT VALUES OF THE ITEMS  Item Profit A 1 B 10 C 6 D 3  In this example, the transaction-weighted utility values of itemsets C  D  BD and CD are larger than or equal to 002 according to the processing way of the proposed algorithm. They are thus put into the set of high transactionweighted utility itemsets HTWUI as shown in TABLE III TABLE III  H IGH TRANSACTION WEIGHTED UTILITY ITEMSETS  High Transaction Weighted Utility Itemset Transaction Weighted Utility C 9.20 D 14.79 BD 9.20 CD 10.97  In this example, four high transaction-weighted utility itemsets are generated. Note that if the traditional utility mining way is used, the results will be C  D and CD  The proposed algorithm based on the transaction-weighted utility concept can discover more unknown utility itemsets from a set of high-utility transactions in a transactional database. For example, the itemset BD is a high utility itemset in the high-utility transactions such as transactions 1 6, 7, 9 and 10. But the itemset BD cannot be discovered by using traditional utility mining Under the perspective of the transaction-weighted utility utility contribution of itemsets in the high-utility transactions will be more noticeable with the increase of influence degree of transaction utility. The item combination in a high transaction-weighted utility itemset can thus really show different information against the traditional high utility itemsets  V  E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS  A series of experiments was conducted to compare the effects of the traditional and the proposed high utility patterns and to evaluate the performance of the proposed mining algorithm with different parameter values. The experiments were implemented in J2SDK 1.5.0 and executed on a PC with 3.0 GHz CPU and 1GB memory The public IBM data generator was first used in our experiments w e v e r, s i n ce ou r obj ectiv e w a s to  discover high utility itemsets, we also developed a simulation model, which was similar to that used in [11 to  generate the quantities of the items in the transactions. Each 
316 


quantity ranged among 1 to 5 according to the way in Moreover, for each dataset generated, a corresponding utility table was also generated in which a profit value lying among 0.01 to 10.00 was randomly assigned to an item Figure 1 shows the profit value distribution of all the items generated by the simulation model in the utility table   Figure 1  The profit value distribution in the synthetic data set In the experimental evaluation, the used parameters T  I  N and D represented the average length of items per transaction, the average length of maximal potentially frequent itemsets, the total number of different items, and the total number of transactions, respectively Experiments were made on the synthetic dataset T10I4N4KD200K to evaluate the difference rate between traditional high utility itemsets and high transactionweighted utility itemsets. The experimental results for different minimum weighted-utility thresholds are shown in Figure 2   Figure 2  The difference rate between two kinds of patterns under different minimum weighted-utility thresholds It could be observed from the figure that the difference rate between the two kinds of patterns varied along with different minimum weighted-utility thresholds. The obvious difference rates between the two kinds of patterns were achieved. It could be explained as follows. In the traditional utility mining model, it only considers actual utility of itemsets but not significance of transaction utility. It may lose some unknown high utility itemsets in a set of highutility transactions. But those unknown high utility itemsets existing in a set of high-utility transactions may be easier to be found by our proposed algorithm. The difference rate between the traditional high utility itemsets and the described high transaction-weighted utility itemsets was thus very obvious under the same parameter settings Experiments were at last made to evaluate the efficiency of the proposed mining algorithm TP-HTWUI igure 3 showed the execution time on the T10I4N4KD200K dataset for different thresholds varying from 0.10% to 0.02%. It could be easily observed that the execution time of the proposed mining algorithm increased along with the increase of the threshold value   Figure 3  The execution time under different thresholds VI  C ONCLUSIONS  In this paper, we have proposed a new kind of patterns called the high transaction-weighted utility itemsets, which consider the transaction utility significance of each of the transactions in a database. Moreover, we have also proposed the two-phased mining algorithm to effectively and efficiently discover the described patterns from a transactional database. The experimental results show that the proposed high transaction-weighted utility patterns have a good effect from high-utility transactions in a database when compared to the traditional utility patterns. In the future, we would apply the proposed knowledge type and approach to some practical applications, such as supermarket promotion applications R EFERENCES  1  R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, ìFast algorithm for mining association rules,î The International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, pp 487-499, 1994 2  R. Agrawal, R. Srikant, and Q. Vu, ìMining association rules with item constraints,î The 3th International Conference on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining, Newport Beach, California 1997 3  C. H. Cai, A. W. C. Fu, C. H. Cheng, and W. W. Kwong ìMining association rules with weighted items,î The International Database Engineering and Applications Symposium \(IDEAS\ pp. 68-77, 1998 
317 


4  R. Chan, Q. Yang, and Y. Shen, ìMining high utility itemsets,î The Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, pp. 19-26 2003 5  C. J. Chu, Vincent S. Tseng, and T. Liang, ìMining temporal rare utility itemsets in large databases using relative utility thresholds International Journal of Innovative Computing, Information and Control, Vol. 4, No, 8, 2008 6  A. Erwin, R. P. Gopalan, and N. R. Achuthan, ìA bottom-up projection based algorithm for mining high utility itemsets,î The 2nd Workshop on Integrating AI and Data Mining\(AIDM\, pp. 3-11 2007 7  A. Erwin, R. P. Gopalan, and N. R. Achuthan, ìCTU-Mine ñ An efficient high utility itemset mining algorithm using the pattern growth approach,î The 7th IEEE International Conferences on Computer and Information Technology, pp. 71-76, 2007 8  J. Hu and A. Mojsilovic, ìHigh-utility pattern mining: a method for discovery of high-utility item sets,î Pattern Recognition, Vol. 40, No 11, pp. 3317-3324, 2007 9  IBM Quest Data Mining Project, ìQuest synthetic data generation code,î http://www.almaden.ibm.com/cs/quest/syndata.html, 1996   M. Sulaiman Khan, M. Muyeba, and F. Coenen, ìA weighted utility framework for mining association rules,î The 2008 Second UKSIM European Symposium on Computer Modeling and Simulation, pp 87-92, 2008   Y. Liu, W. Liao, and A. Choudhary, ìA fast high utility itemsets mining algorithm,î The Utility-Based Data Mining Workshop, pp 90-99, 2005   S. Lu, H. Hu, and F. Li, ìMining weighted association rules Intelligent Data Analysis, Vol. 5, No. 3, pp. 211-225, 2001   D. L. Olson and Y. H. Li, ìMining fuzzy weighted association rules The 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, pp 53-61, 2007   R. Srikant and R. Agrawal, ìMining generalized association rules The 21st International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, Zurich Swizerland, pp. 407-419, 1995   Vincent S. Tseng, C. J. Chu, and T. Liang, ìEfficient mining of temporal high utility itemsets from data streams,î The ACM KDD Workshop on Utility-Based Data Mining, 2006   B. Y. Wang and S. M. Zhang, ìA mining algorithm for fuzzy weighted association rules,î The Second International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, pp. 2495-2499, 2003   H. Yao and H. J. Hamilton, ìMining itemset utilities from transaction databases,î Data & Knowledge Engineering, Vol. 59, No. 3, pp. 603626, 2006   H. Yao, H. J. Hamilton, and C. J. Butz, ìA foundational approach to mining itemset utilities from databases,î The 4th SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, pp. 482-486, 2004   G. Yu, K. Li, and S. Shao, ìMining high utility itemsets in large high dimensional data,î International Workshop on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(WKDD\ pp. 17-20, 2008  
318 


  1599 Another experiment tests how tim e consumption is influenced by different support thresholds \(Figure  number of transaction is 500. According to Figure  LogECLAT algorithm performs well in aspect of time consumption and is not easily influenced by the change of support threshold            F IGURE  R ELATIONSHIP O F S UPPORT T HRESHOLD W ITH T IME C ONSUMPTION  IV  C ONCLUSION  LogECLAT algorithm combines ECLAT algorithm and a method that uses special candidates to find frequent patterns from database. In this way, LogECLAT algorithm can extract necessary information from the database with fewer times of creating a new database. LogECLAT  algorithm also performs well with the change of number of transactions and support thresholds in experiment. So LogECLAT can find frequent patterns efficiently from a large database R EFERENCES  1  R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, A. Swam i, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases, In Proc. 1993 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf Management of Data \(SIGMODí93\, pp. 207ñ216, 1993 2  R. Agrawal, R. Srikant, Fast algorith ms for mining association rules, In Proc. 1994 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDBí94\, pp. 487ñ499 1994 3  Paul W.Purdom, Dirk Van Gucht, Dennis P.Groth, Average Case Performance of the Apriori Algorithm, SIAM journal on computing, Vol.33, No. 5, pp. 1223-1260, 2004 4  M. J. Zaki, Scalable algorithms for association mining, IEEE Trans Knowledge and Data Engin eering. 12, pp. 372ñ390, 2000 5  J. Han, J. Pei, B. Mortazavi-Asl Q. Chen, U. Dayal, and M.-C. Hsu FreeSpan: Frequent pattern-projected sequential pattern mining, In Proc 2000 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery in Databases KDDí00 355ñ359, 2000 6  Z.Liu, Analysis Optimization and Application on the Algorithms of Mining Association Rules, Shuzhou, 2007 7  J.Han, M.Kamber: Data Mining, Concepts and Techniques \(Second Edition\, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2006 8  J.Han, H.Cheng, D.Xin X.Yan, Frequent pattern mining: current status and future directions, Springer Scie nce+Business Media, LLC, Data Min Knowl Disc \(2007\,  Vol. 15, pp.55ñ86, Springer, Urbana , 2007    


Capacity for analysis and synthesisé, çResearch skills Capacity to learn 4   Interpersonal skills Leadershipé, çInterpersonal skillsé, çAbility to communicate with non-expertsé, çOral and written communications in native languageé, çCritical and self-critical capabilityé, çTeamworking 5   Personal skills Ability to work autonomously Problem solvingé, çCapacity to adapt to new situations Knowledge of a second languageé, çConcern for qualityé, çWill to succeedé, çElementary computing skillsé, çCapacity for applying knowledge in practice Decision makingé, çProject design and management Information management skills Table 7 shows the mean importance of each gr oup of competences by stakeholder group for the First Cycle Degree respondents. For the employers the personal skills are the most importance group followed by professional skills and interpersonal skills. The table confirms that employers rank internationalisation and entrepreneurship lowest. Academics agree with the order of the competence groups but rate all of them more strongly important than employers. Students also rank the competence groups in the same order but rate internationalisation slightly higher than employers and entrepreneurship very slightly lower Analysis of the level of development of the competenceas shows that there is good agreement that Professional skills are the best developed of the skill groups followed by Personal skills and Interpersonal skills. As with importance the Entrepreneurship and Internationalisation skill groups are developed the least. There is clearly a difference between the rated importance and level of development of these groups in that the Personal skills group is rated most important but the Professional skills group is developed the most. Other than that the general structure of the supply demand balance of the generic competences is quite well aligned V  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  The objective of this study was to apply the Tuning Methodology to the EIE discipline set to test the alignment between the views of the importance and level of development of sets of competences between students, academics and employers. The results of this study show that the Tuning Methodology is a useful tool for assessing alignment in these subjects  TABLE VII  MEAN IMPORTANCE OF EACH GROUP BY STAKEHOLDER  Competence Group Academic Employer Student Internationalization 2.86 2.63 2.79 Entrepreneurship 3.07 3.05 3.02 Interpersonal skills 3.23 3.09 3.06 Professional skills 3.36 3.29 3.13 Personal skills 3.44 3.30 3.29  In total 3,275 questionnaires have been collected from the stakeholder groups from a range of European countries. The number of responses from each c ountry is variable and a full by country analysis is not possible with the responses currently available, that said a range of analyses have been carried out Tests of the homogeneity of the responses across all countries show that there are country differences in some analyses and some of these are explored, others merit further investigation. Many of the analyses presented in this paper are aggregated results and therefore potentially suffer clustering problems. This too is a topic of further investigation The following is a summary of the key conclusions drawn from the analyses presented Consistent top of importance of the generic competences for all stakeholders is çProblem solvingé. Second in the ranking for students is çElementary computing skillsé. Comparatively students under rate the importance of this skill, perhaps it is taken for granted in students than in academics and employers The results show employers value it more than students and this message could be communicated to students A number of gaps exist between the importance and level of development between the stakeholders. The largest gap is Knowledge of a second languageé and the evidence from the languages section suggests this view is strongly aimed at English The generic competences group into 5 sets with çPersonal skillsé rated consistently as the most important set. This is followed, in descending order of importance, by çProfessional skillsé, çInterpersonal skillsé, çInternationalisationé and Entrepreneurshipé. The smallest mean çInternationalisation is just over midway between çweaké and çconsiderableé. Given the European Unionês desire to see greater student and employee mobility across Europe, it is clear there is scope for scope for improvement in the value placed in this skill set by curriculum designers Curriculum designers and academics can take comfort in the finding that çProfessional skillsé are the best developed of the skill gr oups followed by çPersonal sk illsé and Interpersonal skillsé. This not only aligns with the views of employers but aligns with anecdotal evidence on the real purpose of EIE education programmes. That said there is a trend in a number of countries across Europe away from large firm employment towards a Small to Medium Sized Enterprise culture. Curriculum designers may wish to reflect on the fact that entrepreneurial skills are very low in the list and perhaps merit more attention and emphasis in the curricula In general the different stakeholders rate the importance and level of development on average differently. This difference has been taken into account in the conclusions drawn. The general unevenness in ranking reflects different perspectives and is, in itself not considered a major issue, of concern are the relative positions of competences and the relative gaps. In general and even allowing for this employers and academics tend to rate competences higher in importance than students and graduates a number of specific instances of differences are drawn out in section 8 73 


After the text edit has been completed, the paper is ready for the template. Duplicate the template file by using the Save As command, and use the naming convention prescribed by your conference for the name of your paper. In this newly created file, highlight all of the contents and import your prepared text file. You are now ready to style your paper; use the scroll down window on the left of the MS Word Formatting toolbar A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The authors acknowledge the funding provided by the European Union for this project and to the members of the project team for help in collecting questionnaires R EFERENCES   1  European Association for Education in Electrical and Information Enginering http://www.eaeeie.org  2  EIE-Surveyor project http://www.eie-surveyor.org  3  Tuning Report http://tuning.unideusto.org/tuningeu/index.php?option=content&task=vi ew&id=172&Itemid=205  4  Overview of the Bologna Process Ö Implementation in Europe in Electrical and Informaiton Engineetringé, ISBN 2-9516740-3-1, pp 542  74 


              


   


                        





