Fault Tolerance of Relat;ive Navigaton Sensing in Docking Approach of Spacecraft Dimitry Gorinevsky Mitek Analytics LLC Palo Alto CA 94306 and EE Department Stanford University dimitrygmitekan.com goringstanford.edu Gabriel M Hoffmann Mitek Analytics LLC and AA Department Stanford University Marina Shmakova Mitek Analytics LLC and Physics Department Stanford University Robert W Mah NASA Ames Research Center Scott Cryan NASA Johnson Space Center Jennifer D Mitchell NASA Johnson Space Center Abstract This 
paper analyzes fault tolerance of spacecraft 
relative navigation in Automated Rendezvous and Docking AR&D The relatively low technology readiness of existing relative navigation 
mass and power constraints it is important to choose 
use of redundant 
sensors Because of 
as one of the NASA Crew Exploration Vehicle Project's top tasks Fault tolerance could be enhanced with the help of FDIR Fault Detection Identification and Recovery logic and 
sensors for AR&D has been carried 
a fault tolerant design that provides the required reliability without adding excessive hardware An important design trade is determining whether 
sensor faults and for 
a redundant 
sensor fault sub-model parameters 
sensor can be normally unpowered and activated only when necessary This paper analyzes reliability trades for such fault tolerant system A Markov Chain model of the system is composed of sub-models for sensor avionics states The 
on sensor testing data The avionics sub-model includes FDIR states the parameters 
are based 
near field docking approach The integrated Markov Chain model allows the probabilities of mission abort and 
a mishap 
are determined by Monte Carlo simulations of the 
to be computed The results of the trade study include dependence of the probabilities 
on the backup sensor activation delay TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 2 3 4 5 6 INTRODUCTION  MARKOV CHAIN MODEL  SENSOR MODEL  AvIONICS/FDIR MODEL  ANALYSIS RESULTS  CONCLUSIONS  REFERENCES  BIOGRAPHY  This work was supported by NASA Exploration Systems Mission Directorate ETD Program AR&D Sensors project through Mitek Analytics LLC research subaward 
8318-MAL-001 perotsystems-QSS prime contract NNA04AA 18B U.S Government work not protected by U.S copyright 
IEEEAC PaperT 1251 Version 6 Updated 12 02 2007 1 INTRODUCTION NASA's Exploration System architecture has a requirement for automated rendezvous and docking AR&D of the spacecraft The relatively low technology readiness of existing relative navigation sensors for AR&D has been carried as one of the NASA Crew Exploration Vehicle CEV Project's top tasks e.g see 6 14 Operating a chaser spacecraft in proximity of the target dur 
ing a docking approach is safety critical because of the collision risk The relative navigation system needs to be faulttolerant a fault could lead to a mishap From many points of view AR&D is similar to aircraft Autoland systems which navigate and guide aircraft relative to a landing strip Much work on fault tolerant design of Autoland was done in the 1980s when these systems were first developed and introduced e.g see 7 By contrast there is little prior work on fault tolerance of 
AR&D navigation Because of spacecraft mass and power constraints it is important to choose a fault tolerant design providing required reliability with minimum hardware One challenge is determining how many redundant relative navigation sensors are needed Another is determining whether the redundant sensors can be kept unpowered and activated only when necessary We consider spacecraft relative navigation during close-range approach The system fault tolerance and redundancy management FT/RM configuration is as outlined in 23 There are two relative 
navigation sensors Normally the main sensor is used The backup sensor is activated if the main sensor fails An alternative is having both sensors operational all the time We assume that the inertial navigation system of the spacecraft is fault tolerant This paper studies FT/RM of relative spacecraft navigation for the described system configuration The analysis approach could be used for other FT/RM architectures and configurations Looking at the relative navigation system design from the FT/RM perspective the first question is 


2 Question 1 Is the two fault tolerance requirement Fail Operational/Fail Safe achieved A short answer to this question is yes This answer is based on our earlier study 10 Achieving the fault tolerance requires i being able to detect a fault of the relative navigation sensor and ii having a redundancy management and fault recovery capability The relative sensor fault detection approach based on analytical redundancy is discussed in detail in 10 It relies on fault-tolerant inertial navigation The basic idea is that an observed relative pose change must be accompanied by commensurate acceleration and rotation measured by the IMUs A mismatch indicates a fault If a persistent fault of the relative navigation sensor is detected a backup sensor could be activated to continue operation Fail Operational A fault of the backup relative navigation sensor could be detected the same way The second failure would require aborting the AR&D approach Fail Safe A brief discussion of the Guidance and Control G&C for the abort is contained in 10 The analysis in this paper assumes that a safe abort of the docking approach is always possible This simplifying assumption is introduced to reduce complexity and to focus on the navigation system analysis Once the CEV G&C logic for the docking abort is established the analysis can be extended to include the interaction between the navigation and G&C The answer to Question 1 and the above discussion of the fault tolerance do not depend on the sensor reliability The main focus of this study is Question 2 Is the AR&D mission failure probability sufficiently small to be acceptable The answer depends on the reliability of the relative sensors It also depends on reliability improvements provided by the FT/RM architecture Establishing probabilities of mission failures mission abort or a mishap requires probabilistic risk analysis PRA which is the main focus of this study The PRA must address i the presence of a redundant spare backup sensor ii the intermittent nature of sensor faults and possibile recovery with a delay in sensor fault detection logic These problem features cause logical loops and are difficult to model with standard fault trees A possible approach is to use a dynamical fault tree DFT model The discussion in 21 indicates that there are several alternative interpretations and formulations of DFT models This could make the approach not completely rigorous An alternative formulation which we use is a continuous-time Markov chain model Such models are used for PRA of fault tolerant computer systems with stand-by spares and component repair reboot e.g see 19 25 among many papers in this area More examples of modeling PRA problems with logical loops using Markov chains can be found in 2 4 5 17 21 is exponential explosion of state dimension for complex models This is not an issue herein We develop simple Markov chain models for system parts One such part is a relative navigation sensor that can experience an intermittent failure Another such part is the sensor avionics which host fault detection identification and recovery FDIR logic The partial models are integrated taking into account interactions between the main and backup sensor and respective avionics systems The integrated model has just 24 states and can be built manually It is however preferable to automate model development and integration We integrate the models using off-the shelf software There are several software packages a few of them freely available that facilitate building Markov chain models for PRA Some of them are surveyed in 3 The main contribution of this paper is the trade study for fault tolerant design of relative navigation system for AR&D The trade study results are useful for design of NASA CEV spacecraft The results are detailed in Section 5 of the paper The PRA approach in this paper integrates the Markov chain model of the mission from interacting simpler sub-models The approach and the modeling methodology detailed in the next sections could be considered as a separate contribution The model is overviewed in Section 2 of the paper Section 3 describes the sensor fault submodel It presents sensor test data analysis contributing to model parameter understanding Section 4 describes the sensor avionics submodel including the FDIR logic The section discusses a Monte Carlo simulation study of relative navigation used to evaluate the parameters of the avionics model 2 MARKOV CHAIN MODEL In this work the system level performance of the FT/RM architecture is modeled using a continuous time Markov chain model Since use of continuous Markov chain models in engineering analysis is not standard below is brief background A detailed mathematical formulation of continuoustime Markov chain models can be found in 20 among other textbooks In a general form the model is described by n discrete states At time t it can be at state k with a probability Xk t where Ik Xk t 1 The probability of transition from state j into state k  j over an infinitesimal interval of time t t  dt is assumed to be qkjXj t where qkj  0 is a constant transition rate The probability rate of staying in the same state j is n qj=S qkj k=l,k j The evolutionofthe state vectorx\(t Xi\(t  t is given by The main drawback of using Markov chains mentioned in qt  Qx\(t 1 


is considered a success If both sensor heads were assumed as shown in Table 1 The Mean Time is paper two models describe the fault condition of the main and backup relative navigation respective one sensor head is healthy and the et ronment condition such as glint and lighting that can in sensor head for the main an inverse of the Rate Transition from to state Rate sec I Mean Time Sensor failure 1 2 3 10u lOO h Sensor fault recovery 2 1 1 10 2 100 s Table 1 Sensor fault model parameters Table 1 can be justified as follows The sensor failure rate is based on the experience with AVGS units described in 11 14 No sensor failures were registered in about 1000 hours of lab and flight tests A conservative assumption that one failure happens every 1000 hours on average yields the rate shown in the table The assumed failure rate has a similar order of magnitude to the sensor failure rates assumed in the NASA ESAS reliability study 8 based on the relative navigation sensor failures observed in Shuttle flights arrows connecting the partial models in Figure 1 desci the dependencies between the partial models In particu the main sensors are independent and identi with the exception of the initial state The see I a mishap The solution 2 of the Markov chain is calculated sensor The FDIR algorithms the sensor fault The model in Figure 2 is fully described by two transition rates the sensor fault recovery rate q21 These rates are evaluated in the end of the interval If at least on a given time interval over the duration of the docking approach The probabilities of these outcomes a mishap outcome is assumed The partial models and their assumed parameters are discussed in detail in Sections 3 and 4 of the paper Section 5 presents the assumed set of the model parameters and considsensor head is faulty but the sensor he Similarly the backup sensor avionics state is influenced the backup sensor failure rate q12 and more models describe the state of the avionics hardvA and software for the main and the backup comes mission success mission abort and sensor heads and its relation with the sensor performance These two Markov chains identical and independent Two sensor avionics state is influenced by the state of sensor avionics detect sensor avionics st The backup sensor fails Figure 1 also shows schematically the mission outcome the oval in the middle We consider three possible mission outare faulty and these faults have been detected by the avionics then the mission is aborted Finally if the sensor avionics erroneously considers the sensor healthy an uncovered failure then ers sensitivity of the analysis results to the parameter variations Figure 1 Overview of the PRA model A continuous time Markov chain model for relative navi tion FT/RM is build by integrating partial models ure 1 The four partial models shown in Figure 1 are scribed in detail in the subsequent sections of the sensor The models describe condition of the ence the sensor The Ft algorithms are a part of the avionics software The avi ics models for the two or not a fault of the sensor head state In addition the backup sen avionics state is influenced by the main sensor is activated if the main sensor avionics perform nominally then the mission Figure 2 Markov chain model for 


measures the relative pose The the sensor fault recovery rate characterizes mean time the sensor is off-line because of a fault The main sources of intermittent faults for optics-based sensors are environmental factors such as glint or lighting The lighting conditions depend on the sun angle For low Earth orbit with a 120 min orbital period a 100 second time interval corresponds to a 5 degree change in the sun angle This should provide a sufficient lighting environment change for the glint to go away The 100 second average persistency of the fault corresponds to the sensor fault recovery rate in Table 1 oAVGS SHORT RANGE DATA 1 15 DATA POINT NUMBER Figure 3 Sensor test data for determining outliers Sensor model discussion Let us discuss the sensor failure model in more detail An extensive program of testing several types of relative navigation same time on the FDIR logic to handle the outliers The trades between the two described approaches more reliance are described in 14 In this work we used the sensor test data to build a more detailed characterization of the faults In the test the target is moved with respect to the sensor which are recorded along with the ground truth data obtained with sensor failure rate in Table 1 is ascertained by having sufficiently relaxed sensor data the residuals observation noise are assumed zero-mean normally distributed One we can estimate coordinate residuals and three attitude angle residuals The low sensors data must be detected and removed The drawback of the approach is that it has accuracy of the navigation filter At the AVGS SHORT RANGE DATA _ _ _-0 20 40 60 80 MAHALANOBIS RADIUS 100 120 Figure 4 Sensor outlier rate vs the accuracy threshold solid line and cumulative X6 distribution dashed line X 10 a higher rate of intermittent sensor faults Having zero mean In practice when tuning sensor accuracy specifications assume that the assume a normal distribution model for outlier detection There are two possible approaches to handling this discrepancy 1 Assume that the covariance is larger than the empirical such that all the data points are no outliers but the an independent highaccuracy measurement system The differences between the two measurements residuals an empirical probability of the outlier Figsensor noise covariance which influences the FDIR-related performance probabilities discussed in the next section m m m 0 0 00 D 0 100 10o2 10-4 sensor failure rate in Table 1 Another model parameter is the same time engineering approaches to FDIR algorithm design sensor could be characterized using the empirical covariance matrix 3 N Q N-E ri j=l where ri C 6 is the j-th residual vector and N is the number of the data points in the test set We can then characterize the residual sensor output data sensor error specifications Tightening these specifications would lead to sensor is not biased and the residuals have are bounded by the X6 distribution envelope Current design follows this approach There sensors was carried at NASA The tests can be then analyzed At each point in time the residual vector consists of three linear an FDIR logic and FT/RM architecture in place allows trading a higher sensors fault rate against the improvement in sensor accuracy specs This paper analyses the tradeoffs with respect to mission risks The residual data for the a navigation filter using the relative a set of N  256 412 residual data vectors obtained in the tests The Mahalanobis distances 4 are shown in Figure 3 By introducing a threshold dashed line and counting a fraction of the data points above the threshold ure 4 shows the results obtained for different thresholds solid line together with the cumulative probability density for X6 dashed line The empirical cumulative probability distribution solid line in Figure 4 has heavy tail It decays slower than the cumulative probability distribution for normally distributed residuals dashed line At the are relaxed 2 Assume the empirical covariance obtained from the data This covariance is by a factor of 20 smaller compared to the first approach The smaller covariance improves the more outliers faults in the can be evaluated by using the developed PRA framework One model parameter that is impacted is vectors through the squared Mahalanobis distances d rTQ lrj 4 For the normally distributed residuals d2 should follow X6 distribution where 6 is the number of degrees of freedom We processed 


sensor is initially in No Fault state 1 Hence the probability of being in state 4 is zero initially and subsequently Table 2 shows the transition rates qij assumed for the model in Figure 5 The transitions probabilities related to hardware first three lines in Table 2 were defined based on literature and expert evaluations The rate of permanent avionics faila system failure have probabilities of was assumed to be about three orders of magnitudes higher This reflects the activation time being sensor is at state 4 From this state it can transition into two states nominal operation state 1 nominal activation sensor being not healthy If the main sec This activation time 4 AvIONICs/FDIR MODEL Figure 5 Markov chain model for sensor avionics Initially the backup causes of sensor avionics same as in Figan inverse of the backup activation time of 5 assumes that the temperature of Tr ansition from state to Rate sec-1 Mean Tim'e state Avionics failure  3 2.8 10 100,000 h Backup activation failure 1 10 10,000 s 4 3 Backup activation 4 1 092 causes The assumed backup activation rate is sensor avionics is the ure 5 it is just assumed that the on the main are shown by dash-dotted lines They are operating nominally then the backup or permanent failure state 3 activation attempt failed These transitions are conditional sensor is kept inactive state 4 The model for the main a million hours each We assumed the failure rate of 10 per million hours The backup activation failure rate a few seconds out of the 1000 second mission but yielding a number of failures per mission comparable with other ure transition between states 1 and 3 is assumed similar to what is considered in 12 for navigation system avionics Several a few points per s Recovery for healthy sensor 0.1 10 s 2 1 Fault detection for faulty sen10 0.1I s sor 1 2 Type 11 erTor sensor healthy 1 10 28 h but fault detected 1 2 Type I error recovery for 2.5  10-4 4000 s faulty sensor 2 41 _____________ Table 2 Avionics fault model parameters the backup sensor is controlled and stabilized and is mainly time needed to boot up the sensor avionics The backup activation delay is a parameter of the trade study described in the next section and 5 sec is just one of the values considered the nominal value Transitions probabilities related to FDIR last four lines in Table 2 were determined as a result of a Monte Carlo simulation analysis of the FDIR algorithm performance in low Earth orbit docking approach The FDIR algorithms and the simulation scenario are described in our earlier paper 10 FDIR model and Monte Carlo simulation The Monte Carlo simulation was set up as follows The chaser and target spacecraft were simulated with 6 degrees of freedom each in low earth orbit A visualization of the approach scenario is shown in Figure 6 and described in detail in 10 The spacecraft pictures and error ellipses are magnified in the picture The spacecraft dynamics were simulated as two bodies in low Earth orbit with 6 degrees of freedom each Motion noise sensor noise and a proportional-integralderivative PID control are simulated with the control system using linear programming LP to schedule sensor firing The simulation generated relative navigation sensor measurements The simulation included essential components for autonomous rendezvous The simulated relative navigation sensor had a nominal operating rate of 5 Hz with time jitter added to simulate potential variation in the sensor's output It provided relative position measurements throughout the flight and relative attitude measurements 70%0 of the time The nominal noise of the relative navigation sensor and the inertial navigation system was modeled as Gaussian with covariances equal to those expected for a typical human-rated spacecraft sensor suite The chosen values were for a Honeywell SIGI found in 13 16 Inertial navigation measurements were simulated at 100 Hz 


a fixed interval of time and evaluating the probabilities of the three mission outcomes success abort mishap in the end The used simulation duration of 1000 seconds is representative For the nominal as a result of Monte Carlo study L 20 0 Figure 6 Visualization of R-bar approach used for Monte Carlo simulations The simulated docking procedure mimics the R-bar approach of a chaser vehicle to the International Space Station 9 Alternative approaches such as those currently proposed for the Orion vehicle 6 are similar in terms of sensing requirements The simulated approach begins at a 100 m range The control system uses a PID controller to track the approach path and a linear program solver to optimally fire the thrusters The navigation system fuses inertial and relative navigation data using a multi-rate Extended Kalman Filter EKF as described in 24 For the Monte Carlo analysis 5000 random trajectories can be considered acceptable The mission mishap probability below 10-4 is acceptable cite 8 Figure 8 shows how the system performance characterization the two probabilities varies when the backup use in the avionics fault model validate the choice of time delay models and provide reasonable Type I and Type II error probabilities for the FDIR algorithm 5 ANALYSIS RESULTS The PRA study are specific to the parameters chosen for this simulation they provide 100 80 LL 60 z 40 Ut 40 were injected at were observed The smaller the random fault magnitude the unreliability numbers abort and mishap probabilities stay zero hot stand-by to infinity no backup sensor The on the target spacecraft the distribution of time delays no backup sensor infinite activation delay has acceptable performance A sensitivity analysis more delay before it is detected Regardless of fault magnitude the expected time to detection decays monotonically after the fault onset For smaller fault magnitudes case parameters in Table 1 and Table 2 the mission abort probability is 8.3 10-3 and the mishap probGAUSSIAN RANDOM FAULTS 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 TIME DELAY TO DETECTION s RANDOM FAULTS WITH BOUNDED MAGNITUDE 45 40  35 uJ 30 25 0 20 J 15 L10 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 TIME DELAY TO DETECTION s Figure 7 Time delay from fault onset to fault detection in Monte Carlo simulations of a spacecraft approach x 10 4 x 10-8 8 6 lnf 1000500 200 100 50 20 10 5 3 2 1 05 0 BACKUP START DELAY Figure 8 Nominal case results depending were generated with variation in the initial on the scale of the spacing of retro-reflectors was close to exponential The time to detection histograms for random faults with standard deviation of 0.7 m in each axis and for faults bounded to be less than 0.6 in magnitude are shown in Figure 7 The range at which the fault as are the fault magnitudes The data shown is for faults under 0.6 m in magnitude Although the numerical results one representative set of values for was carried out by running the integrated Markov chain model for on the backup activation time ability is 3.4 10-7 The abort probability below 0.01 sensor activation delay varies from acceptable through the range of activation delays In particular for the assumed model parameters the system with was performed by varying each of the parameters in Table 2 an order of magnitude and observing the change in the system performance characterization A strong dependence on FDIR performance parameters which were obtained was observed The sensitivity to other problem parameters is relatively small Of all FDIR parameters the highest sensitivity is to the Type I error rate false positive probability The mission abort probability increases two orders of magnitude per order of magnitude increase of the Type I error rate Changes in other parameters influence the results to occurs is randomly generated a random range with random magnitude Several trends a lesser extent MISSION ABORT PROBABILITY MISHAP PROBABILITY cross track position along track position and orientation Faults 


sec In that The sensitivity to the FDIR parameters is high at the same time accuracy of computing these parameters is not very high The FDIR parameters obtained in the Monte Carlo simulation study on the backup activation time Study limitations The most important limitation of the above analysis results is that the abort guidance and control G&C logic is not as follows 1 The considered configuration with no chance for 2 Type 11 error sensor 5 10 2000 s healthy but fault detected I 2 Type I error recovery for 0.001 1,000 s faulty sensor 2 1  1_ ____ I one of the study parameters The summary of the findings is one cold backup more The mishap is caused by uncovered failures of the backup was on the relative navigation system and the G&C logic design for CEV AR&D was not yet available at the time of this study In fact the abort G&C logic needs to be considered in interaction with relative navigation Our PRA model assumed that abort is always possible if can observe that the mission abort probability has we felt compelled to consider FDIR parameters that ensure an acceptable risk of mission abort once the backup navigation sensor activation Transition from state to Rate sec1 Mean Time state Fault detection for faulty 0.1 10 s sensor 1 sec or less 2 For the worst-case model parameters the mission abort probability does not exceed 0.01 in the 1000 seconds of the final approach In all studied considered This is because the study focus come up on-line in time for the docking This might be untrue in the end of the approach and depends rendezvous and docking of CEV spacecraft An architecture with a single off-line backup or mishap for backup s Decreasing the activation delay below this number does not visibly improve the mishap probability The mishap probability decreases for large activation delay This is somewhat counterintuitive and is because the abort probability increases much cases the mishap probability is less than 3.5 10-7 This is true for backup sensor failure the backup sensor are detected The sensitivity analysis for the worst-case data set shows little sensitivity to fault detection rate and Type II FDIR are shown in Table 3 We will call these worst-case parameters Table 3 Worst are shown in Figure 9 One are shifted into the unfavorable direction Such Markov chain transition parameters for FDIR model a worst-case FDIR performance for parameters in Table 3 The remaining model parameters a knee point for backup activation delay of 20-30 a mishap Thus the mishap probablity decreases if one active relative case avionics tault model parameters In addition to the above described results are sensitive to many simulation parameters which in turn are known only roughly Therefore we considered are in Tables 1 and 2 The worst-case parameters yield mission abort probability of 2 10-4 and the mishap probability of 2.9 10-8 The results for different backup sensor activation delays in the worst-case parameter set sensor In cases when the mission is aborted because of the main sensor is not activated and there is more faults of the main error rate false positives The performance could become critically bad for i slow FDIR recovery and ii a large rate of Type I FDIR errors false negatives This finding provides important requirements to the FDIR algorithm design and tuning The overall finding is that the considered FT/RM architecture provides acceptable performance even for the worst-case parameters as long as the backup activation delay does not exceed 20-30 a sensor is lost In fact this might be untrue in the immediate vicinity of the target depending on the approach speed The PRA model also implicitly assumed that sensor is activated it will on the G&C logic The reported study was necessarily limited in scope The mentioned limitations provide possible directions of enhancing the developed PRA model and improving the analysis 6 CONCLUSIONS This paper presented a probabilistic risk assessment study for redundant relative navigation sensors in automated sensor was considered The backup activation delay is sensor and sensor appears to activation delay of 20 case mission abort probability is less than 0.01 and mishap probability is less than 10-6 0.1 _ 0.08 0.06 0.04 0.02 MISSION ABORT PROBABILITY ol 0 l Inf 1000 300 100 50 30 20 10 5 3 1 0 x 10 41 MISHAP PROBABILITY Inf 1000 300 100 50 30 20 10 5 3 1 BACKUP START DELAY 0 Figure 9 Worst case results depending 


aelay less that 20 sec This finding does not consider abort guidance and control 3 The results specific probability numbers strongly depend on the Markov chain model of the FDIR performance The previous conclusions assume the worst-case model The Monte Carlo simulation study undertaken to quantify FDIR performance parameters in the model was quite sensitive to configuration and tuning of the FDIR algorithms This emphasizes the importance of FDIR in the overall system design REFERENCES 1 D J Allerton and H Jia A review of multisensor fusion methodologies for aircraft navigation systems The Journal of Navigation Vol 58 2005 pp 405-417 2 P S Babcock G Rosh and J J Zinchuk An automated environment for optimizing fault-tolerant systems design IEEE Annual Maintainability and Reliability Symposium 1991 Orlano FL 31 P Buchholz Structured analysis techniques for large Markov Chains ACM Workshop on Tools for Solving Structured Markov Chains October 2006 Pisa Italy 4 R W Butler and S C Johnson Techniques for Modeling the Reliability of Fault-Tolerant Systems With the Markov State-Space Approach NASA Reference Publication 1348 September 1995 5 Current State ofReliability Modeling Methodologies for Digital Systems and Their Acceptance Criteria for Nuclear Power Plant Assessments The Ohio State University U.S Nuclear Regulatory Commission Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research Washington DC 205550001 6 C D'Souza C Hanak P Spehar F D Clark and M Jackson Orion Rendezvous Proximity Operations and Docking Design and Analysis AIAA GN&C Conference Hilton Head SC August 2007 7 S Everett K Markin P Wroblewski and M Zeltser Design considerations for achieving MLS Category III requirements Proceedings of IEEE Vol 77 No 11 1989 pp 1752-1761 8 Exploration Systems Architecture Study Final Report Chapter 8 Risk and Reliability NASA 2005 available http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/140639main ESAS 08.pdf 9 W Fehse Automated Rendezvous and Docking of Spacecraft Cambridge University Press New York NY 2003 10 G Hoffmann D Gorinevsky R Mah C Tomlin and J Mitchell Fault tolerant relative navigation using inertial and relative sensors AIAA GN&C Conference August 2007 Hilton Head SC 11 R.T Howard A.S Johnston T.C Bryan and M L Book Advanced video guidance sensor AVGS development testing NASA Marshall Space Flight Center 2004 NTRS 2004-11-03 Document ID 20040071003 12 M K Jeerage Reliability analysis of fault-tolerant IMU architectures with redundant inertial sensors IEEE AES Magazine July 1990 13 R Majure Demonstration of a ring laser gyro system for pointing and stabilization applications IEEE PLANS 90 Position Location and Navigation Symposium Las Vegas NV March 1990 14 J D Mitchell S P Cryan D Strack L L Brewster M L Williamson R T Howard A S Johnston Automated rendezvous and docking sensor testing at the flight robotics laboratory IEEE Aerospace Conference 3-10 March 2007 15 Mobius Model based environmentfor validation of system reliability availablity security and performance available http://www.mobius.uiuc.edu 16 Navigation Accelerometers QA2000-020 Performance Specifications available http://www.honeywell.com July 2007 17 M E Pate-Cornell and L M Lakats Organizational warning systems a probabilistic approach to optimal design IEEE Trans on Engineering Management Vol 51 No 2 2004 pp 183-196 18 M E Polites Technology of automated rendezvous and capture in space Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets Vol 36 No 2 1999 19 V S Sharm and K S Trivedi Reliability and performance of component based software systems with restarts retries reboots and repairs 17th Internat Symp on Software Reliability Engineering Nov 2006 L20 L C G Rogers and D Williams Diffusions Markov Processes and Martingales Volume 1 Foundations Series Cambridge Mathematical Library 2nd Edition Cambridge University Press 2000 21 W E Vesely M Stamatelatos J B Dugan J Fragola J Minarick and J Railsback Fault Tree Handbook with Aerospace Applications Version 1.1 NASA Office of Safety and Mission Assurance Washington DC 20546 August 2002 22 B K Walker Performance evaluation of systems that include fault diagnostics Joint Automatic Control Conference June 1981 Charlottesville VA 23 S Tamblyn H Hinkel and D Saley NASA CEV reference GN&C architecture 30th Annual AAS Guidance and Control Conference February 3-7 2007 Breckenridge CO AAS 07-071 NASA/JSC/EG FltDyn-CEV-06-151 NASA DAA 11564 24 S Thrun W Burgard and D Fox Probabilistic Robotics MIT Press Cambridge MA 2005 25 0 Yong and J.B Dugan Approximate sensitivity analysis for acyclic Markov reliability models IEEE Transactions on Reliability Vol 52 No 2 2003 pp 220-230 


BIOGRAPHY Dimitry Gorinevsky is a Consulting Professor of Electrical Engineering in Information Systems Laboratory at Stanford University and a Principal of Mitek Analytics LLC He received a Ph.D from Moscow Lomonosov University and a M.Sc from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology He held research engineering and academic positions in Moscow Russia Munich Germany Toronto and Vancouver Canada He spent 10 years with Honeywell His interests are in decision and control systems applications across many industries He has authored a book more than 140 reviewed technical papers and a dozen patents Dr Gorinevsky is an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology He is a recipient of Control Systems Technology Award 2002 and Transactions on Control Systems Technology Outstanding Paper Award 2004 of the IEEE Control Systems Society He is a Fellow of IEEE Gabriel Hoffmann is a PhD candidate at Stanford He is also with Mitek Analytics LLC working on NASA AR&D project At Stanford Gabriel develops hardware flight software and control laws for a fleet of quadrotor helicopter unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs He has been the team lead for controls systems for the Stanford Racing Team since 2004 He designed the control system that ran the autonomous unmanned vehicle Stanley though a 132 mile race across off-road desert terrain to win DARPA Grand Challenge in 2005 He also designed the control system that ran the autonomous unmanned vehicle Junior through 56 miles of urban terrain to place second in the DARPA Urban Challenge Gabriel interned at Boeing Space Systems Houston working on the International Space Station He interned at the NASA Ames Academy in 2001 Marina Shmakova is working on modeling and analysis of fault tolerant systems with Mitek Analytics LLC She is also a Staff Scientist at Physics Department of Stanford University She worked on analysis of Hubble Space Telescope data including the attitude and pointing data and observational data As a research associate at Stanford Linear Accelerator Center Dr Shmakova worked on different aspects of astrophysics and high energy physics She has Ph.D and in MS in Physics from University of Tennessee Robert Mah is a Senior Scientist in Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Research Center ARC He received a Ph.D in Applied Mechanics and M.S in Mechanical Engineering from Stanford University in 1988 and 1976 He has led and managed NASA projects and groups for more than 30 years He is a recipient of many NASA awards including NASA Exceptional Achievement Medal three Space Act awards several awards for Technology Transfer and Commercialization Spacecraft Docking Simulation Award and several others He published a few dozen papers and has several patents received and pending He was a keynote or invited speaker at many international and NASA conferences his work was featured in the media Dr Mah currently is a Project Scientist for Integrated Vehicle Health Management project in NASA Aviation Safety Program Scott Cryan received BS Aerospace Engineering from University of Buffalo in 1988 Since then he has been working Space Shuttle and Intermational Space Station GPS receivers In addition to the GPS receiver role on Space Shuttle and ISS he had been working on GPS _ii lreceivers for several projects at NASA JSC Recently Mr Cryan has been investigating relative navigation sensor performance via testing and analyses with open loop simulations Currently Mr Cryan is the relative navigation subsystem manager for the CEV Project at NASA-JSC Jennifer Mitchell is the Crew Exploration Vehicle Flight Dynamics Deputy Functional Area Manager at NASAs Johnson Space Center and also serves as the Project Manager for the Exploration Systems Technology Development Au_0 tomated Rendezvous and Docking Sensor Technology Project She has supported guidance navigation and control system development and testing for the Autonomous Extravehicular Robotic Camera AERCam the International Space Station and the X38 Crew Return Vehicles Space Integrated Global Positioning System  Inertial Navigation System She has a BS in Aerospace Engineering from Texas A&M University 


 10 data obtained from the industrial motor test setup. Data was acquired using the experimental fault profile in Figure 15. A snapshot of raw data, including the calculated feature values, is provided in Figure 16 Anomaly Detection\227 The particle filter framework was integrated into LabVIEW to evaluate the real-time performance of the anomaly detector during data acquisition. Shown in Figure 17 is a GUI developed in LabVIEW to manage the anomaly detector settings which include the false alarm rate \(type I error\and false alarm threshold \(type II error  Addi t i onal  confi gurat i on settings include the number of particles used by the particle filter, baseline statistics, fault model, and particle filter update / sample time The results from anomaly detector, using the data shown previously in Figure 16, are provided in Figure 18. The green line represents the confidence of detection based on the false alarm rate and the red line represents the alarm, or detection, threshold as defined earlier in Figure 17. The red dot designates the crossing point during which the red health-state light illuminates to indicate an anomaly has occurred 6  C ONCLUSION  This paper presented a particle-filter based anomaly detector capable of detecting the occurre nce of a major fault mode in its incipient stages for a safe ty critical aircraft actuation system. An overview of a ge neric PHM architecture were presented and applied to a particular EMA fault mode based on an internal FMEA study. The fault mode investigated in detail was a turn-to-turn winding insulation short for a brushless DC motor. The primary fault mode was modeled using physics-of-failure mechan isms indicating the primary failure effect, phase current asymmetry. A feature was derived using a Hilbert transform and statistical analysis to quantify the primary failure eff ect. Then, experimental data was acquired to validate the Simulink simulation model Finally, real-time evaluation of the anomaly detector was performed using LabVIEW  Although a specific system, an EMA, was selected as the test-platform with a specific fault mode, the overall PHM architecture can be applied to an entire range of systems and application domains. In fact, similar techniques which allow  Figure 16\227Plots of experimental data \(top computed features \(bottom experimental test setup using LabVIEW  Figure 17\227LabVIEW interface used to define particle filter settings Figure 18\227Plot of anomaly detection confidence \(top and health state indicator \(bottom\the experimental test setup using LabVIEW 


 11 for early fault detection dur ing acceptable performance in the presence of faults are being developed for a wide variety of system in both manned and unmanned air vehicles Therefore, the concept of usi ng system health information diagnosis and prognosis\n conjunction with reconfigurable control is at the forefront of modern space and avionics applications requiring increasingly sophisticated fault-tolerant systems that are robust, reliable and relatively inexpensive. Ther efore the need arises for a fault-tolerant control architecture to further maximize performance and extend the operating life of COTS components in future avionics systems A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This work was performed under the United States Air Force USAF\contract number FA8650-06-C-7628. The program is sponsored by the USAF Air Force Research Laboratory AFRL orate \(RB\Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio. Mr. J.B. Schroeder, AFRL/RBCC is the Air Force Technical POC a nd Robert Chen is the NGC Program Manager and Principal Investigator. Georgia Institute of Technology \(GA Tech\lead the algorithm development and MOOG Aero space provided actuator and motor data. Tests presented herein were conducted at NGC R EFERENCES  1  M Orch ard  223A Particle Filterin g Based Fram ewo r k  for On-Line Fault Diagnosis and Failure Prognosis,\224 Ph.D. Thesis, Electrical a nd Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of T echnology, Atlanta, 2007 2 M. Orch ard  G. Vach tsev an o s, \223A Particle Filterin g  Approach for On-Line Fault Diagnosis and Failure Prognosis,\224 Transactions of the Institute of Measurement and Control in print   M. Orchard, B. W u and G. Vachtsevanos, \223A Particle Filter Framework for Failure Prognosis,\224 Proceedings of WTC2005, World Tribology Congress III  Washington D.C., USA, 2005    D. B rown, D. Edwards, G Georgoul as B  Zhang and G. Vachtsevanos, "Real-Time Fault Detection and Accommodation for COTS Resolver Position Sensors 1st International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM Oct. 69, 2008   A M u rray  H. B ruce and A. Hi rao, \223R esol ver Posi t i on Sensing System with Integrated Fault Detection for Automotive Applications,\224 Proc. of IEEE Sensors  vol. 2, pp. 864 \226 869, 2002   B  Zhang G. Georgoul as, M Orchard, A. Saxena, D Brown, G. Vachtsevanos, S. Liang, \223Rolling Element Bearing Feature Extraction and Anomaly Detection Based on Vibration Monitoring\224 Mediterranean Conference on Control and Automation pp. 17921797, June 2008   B  Wu A. Saxena, R Pat r i c k-Al daco, and G Vachtsevanos, \223Vibration Monitoring for Fault Diagnosis of Helicopter Planetary Gears,\224 Proceedings of 16th IFAC World Congress July 2005   R  R  Schoen T. G. Habet l e r, F. Kam r an, and R G Bartheld, \223Motor bearing damage detection using stator current monitoring,\224 IEEE Trans  Ind. Appl  vol. 31, no. 6, pp. 1274\2261279, Nov./Dec. 1995   M  B a y but t  S. Nanduri  P W. Kalgren, D. S. Bodden N. S. Clements and S. Alipour, \223Seeded Fault Testing and In-situ Analysis of Critical Electronic Components in EMA Power Circuitry,\224  IEEE Aerospace Conference March 2008    N H M a lik, A. A. Al-Arainy and M I. Quereshi 223Electrical Insulation in Power Systems\224, Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, 1998    S. Nandi and H. A. Tol i y at  223C ondi t i on m oni t o ri ng and fault diagnosis of electrical machines \226 A review,\224 in Proceedings of the 34th Annual Meeting of the IEEE Industry Applications pp. 197-204, 1999   P. J. Tavner and J Penm an 223 Condition Monitoring of Electrical Machines 224 Res. Studies Press, 1987   C Xi anrong, V. C o cquem pot and C C h ri st ophe 223A model of asynchronous machines for stator fault detection and isolation,\224 IEEE Trans  Ind. Electron  vol. 50, no. 3, pp. 578\226584, Jun. 2003   J Penm an H G. Seddi ng, B A. Ll oy d, and W. T Fink, \223Detection and location of interturn short circuits in the stator windings of operating motors,\224 IEEE Trans. Energy Convers vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 652\226 658, Dec. 1994    D. Hansel m a n, \223B rushl e ss Perm anent M a gnet M o t o r Design,\224 The Writers' Collective, 2003   S. E. Lyshevski, \223Elect romechanical Systems, Electric Machines, and Applied Mechatronics\224, CRC Press Boca Raton, FL, 1999   D. Y. Ohm Dy n am i c M odel of PM  Sy nchronous Motors," Drivetech, Inc Blacksburg, Virginia www.drivetech.com     L. Youngkook and  T. G. Habet l e r, \223A St at or Turn Fault Tolerant Strategy for Induction Motor Drives in Safety Critical Applications,\224 IEEE PESC \22206 June 


 12 18-22 2006   M Johansson, "The Hi l b ert t r ansform  M a st er Thesi s  of Mathematics / Applied Mathematics, V\344xj\366 University, March 1999  E. B. Saff, A. D. Snider., \223Com plex analysis for mathematics, science and engineering\224, Prentice-Hall Inc., New York, 1976    Henri c i  Pet e r, \223Appl i e d and com put at i onal com p l e x analysis\224, Vol. 1, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, 1988  M Orchard, G. Kacprzynski, K. Goebel, B. Saha, and G. Vachtsevanos, \224Advances in Uncertainty Representation and Management for Particle Filtering Applied to Prognostics,\224 PHM08 Conference Denver CO, October 2008    B Zhang, C Scony ers, C B y i ngt on, R Pat ri c k, M  Orchard, G. Vachtsevanos, \223Anomaly Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of Unanticipated Faults,\224 PHM Conference Denver CO, October 2008    R Pat ri c k, M Orchard B. Zhang, M. Koelemay, G Kacprzynski, A. Ferri, G. Vachtsevanos, \223An Integrated Approach to Helicopter Planetary Gear Fault Diagnosis and Failu re Prognosis,\224 42nd annual Systems Readiness Technology Conference AUTOTESTCON 2007 Baltimore, USA, September 2007 B IOGRAPHY  Douglas W. Brown received the B.S degree in electrical engineering from the Rochester Institute of Technology in 2006. He is a recipient of the National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate \(NDSEG Fellowship and is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering at the Georgi a Institute of Technology specializing in control system s. His research interests include incorporation of Prognostics Health Management PHM\contro l. Prior to joining Georgia Tech, Douglas was employed as a project engineer at Impact Technologies where he worked on incipient fault detection techniques, electronic component test strategies and diagnostics/prognostic algorithms for power supplies and RF component applications  George Georgoulas received Diploma and PhD degrees from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Patras Patras in 1999 and 2006, respectively He joined the ICSL in October 2006 as a postdoctorate. His research interests include intelligent data analysis and development of decision support systems for complex systems  Hyeon Bae was born in Jinju, Korea, in 1973. He graduated in electrical engineering from Gyeongsang National University, Korea, in 1999. He received the M.S. and Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Pusan National University, Korea, in 2001 and 2005 respectively. He was a Postdoctoral Researcher with Research Institute of Computer Information and Communication \(RICIC Imaging and Information Tec hnology Center \(IITC\, Pusan National University, in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In 2008, he was a Postdoctoral Researcher with Georgia Institute of Technology, GA, U S.A. His research interests are data mining, intelligent system and control, and intelligent manufacturing system \(IMS  George J. Vachtsevanos is a Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He was awarded a B.E.E. degree from the City College of New York in 1962, a M.E.E. degree from New York University in 1963 and the Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from the City University of New York in 1970. He directs the Intelligent Control Systems laboratory at Georgia Tech where faculty and students are conducting resear ch in intelligent control neurotechnology and cardiotec hnology, fault diagnosis and prognosis of large-scale dynamical systems and control technologies for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. His work is funded by government agencies and industry. He has published over 240 technical papers and is a senior member of IEEE. Dr. Vachtsevanos was awarded the IEEE Control Systems Magazine Outstanding Paper Award for the years 2002-2003 \(with L. Wills and B. Heck awarded the 2002-2003 Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Distinguished Professor Award and the 2003-2004 Georgia In stitute of Technology Outstanding Interdisciplinary Activities Award  Robert H. Chen received the Ph.D degree in mechanical engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 2000. He is currently a Senior Research Engineer at Northrop Grumman Corp., Integrated Systems Sector, Western Region. His research interests include fault detection, identification, and reconstruction with applica tion to distributed aerospace systems, guidance and contro l of aerospace vehicles, and homing missile guidance and estimation  


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with variable-le ngth arrays  lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting variablelength arrays to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services  Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Lwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfn, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


