  1 The Processing Chain and Cal/Val Operations of the Future Hyperspectral Satellite Mission EnMAP R. M\374ller, M. Bachmann, C. Makasy, A. de Miguel, A. M\374ller A. Neumann, G. Palubinskas, R. Richter, M. Schneider, T Storch, T. Walzel 1 H. Kaufmann, L. Guanter, K. Segl 2 T.Heege, V.Kiselev 3    1 German Aerospace Center \(DLR Applied Remote Sensing Cluster CAF 82234 We\337ling, Germany 2 Deutsches GeoForschungsZentrum \226 GFZ Telegrafenberg 14473 Potsdam, Germany  3 EOMAP GmbH & Co. KG 
Friedrichshafener Str. 1 D-82205 Gilching  1 rupert.mueller, martin.bachmann, christine.makasy, gintautas.palubinskas, rudolf.richter, amaia.miguelde andreas.mueller, andreas.neumann, mathias.schneider, thomas.walzel, tobias.storch,}@dlr.de 2 charly, luisgan, segl}@gfz-potsdam.de 3 info@eomap.de   Abstract 227 12 The German Aerospace Center DLR \226 namely the Applied Remote Sensing Cluster CAF and the German Space Operations Center GSOC \226 is responsible for the establishment of the ground segment of the future German hyperspectral satellite mission EnMAP \(Environmental 
Mapping and Analysis Program\ied Remote Sensing Cluster has long lasting experiences with air- and spaceborne acquisition, processing, and analysis of hyperspectral image data. This paper mainly addresses the concept of the operational and automatic processing chain and the calibration / data quality to generate high quality data products    T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  I NTRODUCTION 1  E N MAP  M ISSION 1 
 E N MAP  P RODUCT D EFINITIONS 2  P ROCESSING CHAIN 3  I NFLIGHT C ALIBRATION 6  I NSTRUMENT M ONITORING 7  V ALIDATION AND Q UALITY 
C ONTROL 7  C ONCLUSION 7  R EFERENCES 8  B IOGRAPHY 9   I NTRODUCTION  The future German satellite mission EnMAP  En vironmental M apping and A nalysis P rogram hyperspectral remote sensing  with the major objectives to 
measure, derive and analyze diagnostic parameters for the vital processes on earth\222s land and water surfaces 4][6][12][17]. Sta ndardized products will be generated and  1 978-1-4244-3888-4/10 25.00 \2512010 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1178 Version 1, Updated 2009:10:29 delivered to the international user community of science and industry coordinated by Ge oForschungsZentrum Potsdam GFZ as the mission principal investigator  The m a jor components of the EnMAP project are the project management by the Space Agency of the German Aerospace Centre \(DLR e space segment headed by Kayser Threde GmbH, Munich, Germany, which is responsible for the hyperspectral instrument  and t h e 
satellite bus \(established by OHB-Systems Bremen Germany\, the science advisory group headed by GFZ and finally the ground segment realized by DLR The EnMAP project is currently in the detailed design phase closing mid of 2010 with the CDR \(Critical Design Review\After the implementation, verification and validation phase \(technical a nd operational\ the launch is planned in 2013 followed by the LEOP \(Launch and Early Orbit Phase\and the commissioning and five years routine phase First the paper gives a short overview of the EnMAP mission and its major components followed by a description of the data products, data processing chain, instrument calibration and data quality analysis  
E N MAP  M ISSION    Mission Objectives The major objectives of the EnMAP mission are to measure and analyze quantitative parameters describing environmental key processes of land and water surfaces Derived geochemical, biochemical and biophysical parameters serve as input for physically based ecosystem models and ultimately provide information reflecting the status and evolution of various terrestrial ecosystems Applications comprise agriculture, coastal zones, land degradation, geology and forest themes  


  2 Mission and Instrument Parameters \(Space Segment To measure frequently quantitative parameters which describe key processes on th e earth\222s surface, the EnMAP satellite [16 will b e ab le to rev i sit an y lo catio n o n th e earth  globe under a quasi-nadir observation \(max. across track off-nadir pointing angle 5\260\defined illumination conditions \(sun-sy nchronous orbit at 653 km altitude with an 11:00 o\222clock LTDN crossing\. Utilizing the off-nadir across pointing cap ability of +/-30\260 the target revisit time will be within 4 days. Besides the AOCS payload consisting of three star sensors, gyros and GPS the satellite bus will contain two imaging spectrometers \(VNIR Visual and Near InfraRed and SWIR: Short Wave InfraRed operated in pushbroom configuration. During the five years of mission operations in the years from 2013-2018 data will be acquired with a spatial ground sampling of approximately 30 m \327 30 m at nadir and a swath width of 30 km. The H yper S pectral I nstrument \(HSI\e designed and realized by Kayser-Threde GmbH as a 2dimensional CMOS \(Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor\ plane array for the VNIR spectral region and a 2-dimensional MCT \(Mercury Cadmium Telluride\ for the SWIR channels \(actively cooled down to 150 K and thermally controlled to 0.1 K\A spectral resolution of at least 10 nm will be achieved over the broad spectral range from 420 nm up to 2450 nm with a VNIR \(96 spectral channels\IR \(136 spectral channels\ector. The overlapping range from 900 nm to 1000 nm will enable the processing chain to improve the atmospheric correction by resolving the water absorption band around 950 nm with sufficient signal to noise performance which is, e.g. 500 at 495 nm and 150 at 2200 nm. The data acquisition of the two spectrometers is realized with the method of in-field separation utilizing two entrance slits. This leads to a time separation of 88 msec between the VNIR and SWIR channels and means that the SWIR instrument scans the same area on ground about 20 lines delayed with respect to the VNIR instrument \(a small latitude dependent offset will be noticed in across direction due to the earth rotation\. Ther efore an increased effort in geometric processing is necessary in order to be better than the required co-registration accu racy of 0.2 pixel size Based on the advanced spectrometer design keystone and smile effects can be neglected but will be recognized in the processing chain  Ground Segment The ground segment is subdivided into three parts and comprises the following systems \(M\374ller et. al., 2009 200  The mission operations system responsible for commanding and controlling the satellite and instrument 200  The payload ground system responsible for data reception, handling, archiving and delivery as well as for the user interfaces for observation and product orders 200  The processor, calibration and product quality control responsible for instrument in-flight calibration establishment of an automatic processing chain and product quality assurance  E N MAP  P RODUCT D EFINITIONS  The EnMAP products are derived from tiled data takes of size 1000x1024 pixels \(~30x30 km\262\ch are generated by the processing system on demand and delivered to the user community. Different product definitions \(e.g Committee on Earth Observation Satellites CEOS European Space Agency ESA or from the different satellite data providers\n common use, but a coherent assignment of the foreseen EnMAP product types to these definitions is not possible. Therefore the EnMAP standard product definitions are specified as follows  At-Sensor-Radiance Product \(L1 The Level 1 product is radiometrically calibrated, spectrally characterized, geometrically characterized, quality controlled and annotated with preliminary pixel classification \(usability mask\e auxiliary information e.g. position and pointing values, interior orientation parameters, gain and offs et\ for further processing is attached, but not applied  Orthorectified Product \(L2geo The Level 2geo product is derived from the L1 product and geometrically corrected \(correction of sensor, satellite motion and terrain related distortions\pled to a specified grid \(orthorectified\. Auxiliary data for further processing are attached, but not applied  Atmospheric Corrected Product \(L2atm The Level 2atm product is derived from the L1 product atmospherically corrected and the data converted to ground surface reflectance values. Auxiliary data for further processing are attached, but not applied  Orthorectified and Atmospheric Corrected Product \(L2 The Level 2 product is derived from the Level 2 geo product, atmospherically corrected and the data converted to ground surface reflectance values  Depending on the product type the order options listed in Table 1 are possible \(in red the default values  Map projection UTM; Zone of scene center UTM; Zone of scene center - 1 UTM; Zone of scene center + 1 UTM; Zone of datatake center Geographic WGS84 Lambert Azimuthal Equal Area ETRS89 \(European usage 


  3 Image resampling Nearest Neighbour Bilinear Interpolation Cubic Convolution Atmospheric correction mode Combined atmospheric correction for land and water surfaces Atmospheric correction for land surfaces Atmospheric correction for water surfaces Atmospheric correction with cirrus / haze removal Removal of cirrus Removal of haze No Atmospheric correction with spectral interpolation Spectral interpolation at wavelength 1400nm and 1800nm Interpolation of whole spectrum No spectral interpolation Atmospheric correction mode for land surfaces Combined topographic and atmospheric correction, if possible Flat terrain assumption fo r atmospheric correction Assumption for water type in atmospheric correction Clear water Turbid water Highly turbid water Table 1 Product order options \(preliminary The order options for the product format are GeoTIFF JPEG2000, BSQ \(Band Sequential\, BIL \(Band Interleaved by Line\IP \(Band Interleaved by Pixel\ together with quality layers and metadata embedded in a XML structure P ROCESSING CHAIN  The operational processing chain will be integrated into the Data Information and Management System DIMS at DLR which provides a multi-mission processing, archiving and distribution facility for earth observation products. For the purpose of processor development, verification and validation an identical processing chain under version control will be operated independently during the whole mission life time. Figure 1 shows the overview of the processing chai   Transcription Processor The transcription processor generates internal products \(not available for the users\ma inly collects the information from the different data streams, screens the image and housekeeping data quality, tiles the data take, annotates the tiles with quality and search information and archives the raw data product. The hyperspectral image data, which are down linked via X-Band to th e DLR receiving station in Neustrelitz \(north of Germany\first de-compressed and the dark current measurements - acquired before and after each data take sequence - are extracted and stored separately as dark current product for calibration and monitoring purposes. In case of earth observation the data takes \(up to 1000 km track length\are tiled to a size of 1000x1024 pixels \(approximately 30x30 km\262\y these tiles are long-term archived, whereas higher level products are produced only on demand. In case of in-flight calibration measurements \(e.g full aperture sun diffuser deep space, internal lamp or LED measurements evaluated, interpreted and additional calibration information is derived. Data quality is monitored within a screening process, which extensively uses the information of the housekeeping data. Quality mask s and measures are derived 226 e.g. bad or suspicious pi xels, cloud and haze mask, waterland mask, image acquisition mode, image acquisition condition, corner coordinates and so on \226 and archived together with the image data, which finally provide advanced selection criteria fo r EnMAP image orders by the user community  Systematic and Radiometric Conversion Processor \(L1 The L1 processor corrects the raw HSI data for systematic effects and converts them to physical at-sensor radiance values based on the currently valid calibration tables. The correction includes the following sub-tasks 200  Saturated pixel detection \(including blooming with recovery 200  Suspicious pixel detection and dead pixel registration 200  Non-linearity response correction \(spatial and spectral direction 200  Electronic offset subtracti on for the SWIR spectrometer for the VNIR spectrometer the electronic offset is Level 0 Processor Transcription Level 1 Processor Systematic and Radiometric Correction Level 2geo Processor Orthorectification Level 2atm Processor Atmospheric Correction L1 Product L2geo Product L2atm Product L2 Product Long Term Archive L0 Data Raw data Orbit and Attitude Products In-flight Calibration Calibration Products O U T P U T  P R O C E S S O R Figure 1 EnMAP processing chain and product generation 


  4 already internally corrected 200  Dark current subtraction, which is measured before and after each data take 200  Photo response non-uniformity \(PRNU\ion spatial and spectral direction, flat fielding 200  Spectral stray-light correc tion \(spectral direction deconvolution 200  Spatial stray-light correction \(spatial direction deconvolution 200  Smile correction including spectral resampling \(spectral optional 200  Radiometric conversion towards at-sensor radiance values Output products are the TOA radiance data cubes for the VNIR and SWIR instrument. Quality layers \(e.g. bad pixel masks, land/water mask, cloud mask\etadata \(e.g orbit and attitude measurements, geometric calibration values, spectral channel inform ation\her processing at the customer are attached  Orthorectification Processor \(L2geo Orthorectification is the process to generate map conform products by removing geometric distortions caused by the sensor internal geometry, the thermal influenced mounting angles, the satellite motion during data acquisition and the terrain related influences. The EnMAP L2geo processor produces ortho-images employing the technique of the rigorous model of Direct Georeferencing \(DG  9  The Line-of-Sight model \(LoS\ in this context it means the view direction of each pixel at any instance of time - forms the basis of DG and is derived from the collinearity equation The sensor internal geometry of the HSI will be extensively characterized in the labor atory by highly accurate measurements of the direction angles of single illuminated pixels \(gravity center of the pixel\ the \(adjusted collimator axis. For each pixel the two angles on object side completely describe the intern al camera geometry. This also includes \(possible\etric keystone effects. The HSI mounting angles with respect to the attitude measurement system \(body coordinate frame\ned in the commissioning phase by geometric calibration procedures due to the gravity release and temperature influence. It is further foreseen to model the temperature dependence of these mounting \(also called boresight alignment\ angles which is assumed to be a function of the sun exposure time of the satellite during orbit revolution. In order to minimize the temperature influence on the mounting angles as well as to increase mechanical stability the three star trackers are rigidly mounted on the HSI optical unit \(see figure 2 star tracker measurements are combined by Kalman filtering with the angular measurements of the inertial measurement unit. These \(unit\ quaternions are finally transformed from the Earth Centered Inertial frame \(ECI\the Earth Centered Rotated frame \(ECR\rovides the satellite position \(and velocity\ a rate of 1 Hz. The attitude and position measurements are interpolated \(e.g. Lagrange interpolation Within an iterative process the intersection points of the Line-of-Sight vectors for each pixel and the Digital Elevation Model \(DEM\etermined and leads to 3D points in object space. A globa l DEM database, fused from different sources like SRTM-C / SRTM-X / Tandem-X data, serves as input for the terrain correcti  The object points of the grid are expressed in a earth bound Cartesian coordinate frame \(our processor uses a local topocentric frame with an fundamental point close to the scene center\e d to a user selectable map projection system \(e.g. UTM with the zone derived from the center coordinates of scene as well as the neighboring zones, geographic projection\ithin the map projection system image resampling is performed towards 30 m pixel spacing in case of UTM and 1 arcsec in case of Geographic projection. Different selectable resampling methods \(e.g nearest neighbor, bi-linear, cubic convolution\to generate the final orthorectified products are offered to the customer The VNIR and SWIR data are independently orthorectified and finally merged to a consistent product A linear pointing knowledge \(inde pendently in each of the two horizontal directions\ RMSE at nadir \226 corresponding to approx. 3 ground sampling distances - is specified for the EnMAP ge ometric accuracy. The error budget of the pointing knowledge is composed by the satellite position accuracy, which is estimated to be 20 m after post-processing at the ground segment, and by the attitude measurement accuracy of approximately 55 m on ground. A random error of about half a pixel size \(approx 15 m on ground\s assumed for the pixel boresight, whereas instrument boresight angles \(e.g. thermal distortions caused by sun exposure during orbit revolution and seasonal effects, gravity release, vibr ations by the reaction wheels and cooler compressor correctable after in-flight geometric calibration procedures The geometric accuracy of the orthorectification is crucial for overlaying the data with existing data sets, maps, or in geographic information systems \(GIS\ng them for evaluations like change detec tion, map updating, and others Figure 2  Satellite configuration with definition of the HSI sensor coordinate frame. The star sensors are mounted on the HSI optical unit. \251 Kayser-Threde 


  5 like enhanced atmospheric correction using terrain information \(see chapter of Atmospheric Correction Processor\mprovement of the Line-of-Sight model shall be achieved by ground control points \(GCP which are extracted automatica lly from reference images of superior geometric quality using image matching techniques. In a first step, tie points between the HSI uncorrected image and a refere nce image are determined by matching. If optical data serve as reference an intensity based matching  and an object based m a t c hi ng i s appl i e d If the DEM data \(the same data base as used for the orthorectification with high quality horizontal geometric accuracy\serve as reference a shaded DEM model is calculated simulating the conditions that were prevailing during the HSI scene acquisition \226 namely the sun elevation and azimuth angles. Then tie points are determined by intensity based matching and / or multimodal matching based on similarity metrics like mutual information  18 19 Addi ng now hei ght val u es i n t e rpol at ed from  the DEM, to the found tie points a set of full qualified GCP can be derived. In a second step, the GCP sets serve as input to improve the LoS model parameters within a least squares adjustment process. GCP outlier detection is included in the matching processes itself as well as in the least squares adjustment The feasibility of the approach to extract GCP from reference images for a refinement of the DG model within an operational environment has been successfully demonstrated at different projects. For example the production of two European coverages by orthorectification of SPOTS 4 HRVIR, Spot 5 HRG and IRSP-6 LISS III scenes  Fi gure 3 shows t h e m o sai c of t h e ort horect i f i e d scenes covering main parts of Europe. A relative geometric accuracy of 10 m RMSE w.r.t. the reference images have been reached. About 450 GCP per 1000 km\262 \(~size of one EnMAP HSI scene extracted automatically  Atmospheric Correction Processor \(L2atm The EnMAP L2atm processor performs atmospheric corrections of the images employing separate algorithms for land and water applications  The choice of the land and/or water mode is defined by the customer. However, scenes may also be processed in both modes, e.g. for coastal areas or inland lakes that may contain a large percentage of land and water pixels Input for the atmospheric correction processors are the L1 product or the L2geo product, selectable by the customer For the atmospheric correction over land a combined atmospheric and topographic processing is possible, which is only possible for scenes with accurate geometric correction. A geometric accuracy better than one pixel size is required for a combined topo / atm correction in order to avoid artifacts caused by the in accurate registered DEM and orthorectified image  Land Applications  Relevant criteria for the selec tion of a radiative transfer code with respect to the EnMAP mission are 200  spectral coverage of the radi ative transfer calculations 200  spectral resolution 200  aerosol models 200  treatment of gas absorption and multiple scattering  The MODTRAN-4 \(moderate resolution atmospheric transmission the solar reflective spectrum from 400 nm to 2500 nm\he thermal region. It supports a sufficiently high spectral resolution for the absorbing gases \(water vapor, ozone, oxygen, carbon dioxide etc.\ also includes a rigorous treatment of the coupled scattering and absorption processes. Moreover, it offers a set of representative aerosol models \(rural or continental, urban, maritime, desert\Therefore MODTRAN-4 will be selected to compile a database of atmospheric correction look-up tables with a high spectral resolution of 0.6 nm to enable the processing of the 10 nm channel bandwidths of EnMAP. This \223monochromatic\224 or fine spectral resolution database has to be resampled with the EnMAP channel filter curves. The advantage of compiling a \223monochromatic\224 database is the possibility of quickly resampling it with updated spectral channel filter functions avoiding the necessity to run time-consuming radiative transfer calculati ons for the solar and view geometry pertaining to the acquired scenes The EnMAP image processing will be performed with the ATCOR \(atmospheric correction\hat accounts for flat and rugged terrain, and include s haze/cirrus detection and removal algorithms 11 Fi gure 4 shows an exam pl e of the atmospheric correction wit hout and with haze removal Output products will be the ground reflectance cube, maps of the aerosol optical thickness and atmospheric water vapor, and masks of land, water, haze, cloud and snow  Figure 3 Example of orthorectified products derived from Spot 4 HRVIR, Spot 5 HRG and IRS-P6 Liss III data using automatically extracted GCP information from reference ima g es for sensor model refinement The overall g eometric accurac y w.r.t. the reference is 10m RMSE linear 


  6    Figure 4 Example of an atmospheric corrected scene from ALOS/AVNIR-2 data without \(top\and with bottom\e removal   Water Applications  A different strategy is employed for water applications exploiting the spectral properties of water. In particular, the radiance at wavelengths greater than 800 nm is absorbed by water body, so measurements in this spectral region can be effectively used to derive the aerosol map required for the retrieval of the map of water leaving radiance. However visible \(and partial near infrared\ation penetrates the water body and is reflected back in the direction of the sensor not only by the water surface, but also by deeper water layers. In this context, the radiative transfer model for processing of remote sensing water scenes should allow for the coupled treatment of radiation propagation in both atmosphere and water media A number of radiative transfer codes allow for a coupled treatment of radiation propagation in atmosphere and water One of the most reliable of these is the finite element method. This method provide s the possibility to obtain radiation intensities in all polar and azimuthal directions and it demonstrated better perform ance in the case with highly peaked phase functions, which are typical in the atmosphere and natural waters. In order to be used in an image processing system, the radiative transfer code has to be supplemented by optical models of the atmosphere and water media. In particular, the MIP \(Modular Inversion Program\s used, which comb ines the finite element method with the MODTRAN4 atmospheric model and the multi-component water m The specifics of remote sensing of water bodies is the specular reflection of the surface resulting in some cases in the so-called \221sun glint\222 effect, significantly influencing the results of atmospheric correction. The areas strongly contaminated by sun glint must be filtered out in the output data Output products are the water bulk reflectance cube, the aerosol optical thickness map, sun glint mask and updates of masks of land, water, haze and cloud I NFLIGHT C ALIBRATION  Inflight calibration refers to all measurements and data analyses aiming to assess radi ometric, spectrometric and geometric characteristics of the EnMAP hyperspectral instruments in orbit. Th e HSI will undergo extensive characterization and calibration measurements before launch and re-calibrated after launch by updating the calibration tables The design of the HSI instrument provides a suite of technical tools and modes to perform measurements for the on-orbit calibration [5 ich are in p articu l ar 200  Shutter / calibration mechanism for dark value and calibration measurements 200  Full aperture diffuser for s un calibration for absolute radiometric calibration 200  Main radiometric sphere \(wh ite Spectralon\ for relative radiometric assessment 200  Secondary sphere \(doped Spectralon\ral calibration assessment A series of cyclograms for the on board calibration measurements are specified Calibration measurements are performed periodically or with highest priority on request The dark value measurements for all spatial and spectral pixels will be carried out at be gin and end of each data take by closing the entrance slit with the shutter mechanism Deep space looking with opened shutter serves as verification measurement especially in the SWIR channels Sun calibration measurements are used for absolute radiometric calibration of the HSI in orbit. To this end the full aperture diffuser is moved into the entran ce aperture of the telescope and the satellite is oriented for the measurement of the extraterrest rial sun irradiation via the diffuser For the relative radiometric calibration light sources inside the main sphere are operated at different currents, which illuminate the entire entrance slit. This kind of measurement only allows checking for the radiometric stability The spectral calibration in orbit is carried out using the secondary \(smaller\ed by doped Spectralon which realizes absorption features Linearity measurements will be performed by changing integration times, where different light sources can be used Geometric calibration uses ground control information derived from orthorectified scenes of superior geometric quality \(especially high resolution sensors\aps and other available sources. The test sites are distributed over a broad range of latitudes to account for thermal influences   


  7 I NSTRUMENT M ONITORING  Instrument monitoring takes a broader view on functioning of the instrument in-orbit by analyzing essential housekeeping data \(e.g. temperat ures, voltages\addition to the results of calibration on a long-term basis. Monitoring analyzes changes and trends in instrument behavior, which might indicate problems and joins all available information for synoptical analysis and is therefore closely linked to instrument calibration. The monitoring of the instrument calibration \(dark values, relative and absolute radiometric calibrations, spectral calibrations\ased on time series of main parameters for trend and statistical analysis Additionally the instrument status information will be monitored and documented 200  temperature of functional units like optical bench and focal plane 200  voltages and currents from the secondary power supply like for the lamps and detectors 200  instrument operational status like integration times and shutter operations 200  life limited resources like burning time of the lamps and exposure time of the diffuser V ALIDATION AND Q UALITY C ONTROL  Validation is mainly the process of assessing, by independent means, the quality of data products as defined by the Committee of Earth Observation Satellites CEOS The validation activities are unde r lead and coordination of GFZ Potsdam. For validation campaigns an international team is foreseen The Quality stematic and continuous data product verification, which addresses the accuracy and completeness of intermediate and final data products. It includes on-line as well as off-line analysis of qualityrelated parameters such as 200  pixel, line and band failures 200  saturation effects \(blooming 200  indicators for changes in spectral / radiometric calibration 200  instrument co-registration and orthorectification accuracy 200  image noise estimates 200  analysis of image artifacts 200  analysis of products of different levels for correctness 200  overall product quality  Thus the quality of EnMAP data products is ensured by quality control within the processing chain, and by independent \(ground-based validation activities     C ONCLUSION  The automatic processing chain for product generation of the future spaceborne hyperspectral imager EnMAP is presented as far as the design is fixed at the current state of Phase C. Only minor changes will be expected for the upcoming phases \(implementation, test, verification and validation ts will be derived and delivered to the international user community. Extensive radiometric, spectral and ge ometric characterization and calibration will be performed before launch as well as inflight calibration during the whole mission  


  8 R EFERENCES  1 Bach m an n  M.; Hab erm eyer, M.; Ho lzwarth  S.; Rich ter R.; M\374ller, A. \(2007\Includi ng Quality Measures in an Automated Processing Chain for Airborne Hyperspectral Data. In: EARSeL Workshop on Imaging Spectroscopy Bruges, Belgium 2 Heeg e T Kisselev  V.; Mik sa, S.; Pin n el, N.; H\344se, C 2005\ Mapping Aquatic Systems with a Physically Based Process Chain. In: SPI E Ocean Optics, Fremantle Australia   Lehner, M 1986 Tri p l e st ereoscopi c i m agery si m u l a t i on and digital image correlation for MEOSS project Proceedings of ISPRS Commission I Symposium, pp 477-484, Stuttgart, German 4 f m a n n  H.; Seg l K.; Gu an ter L Ch ab rillat S Ho fer S.; Bach, H.; Hostert, P.; M\374ller, A.; Chlebek, C. \(2009 Review of EnMAP Scientific Potential and Preparation Phase. In: EARSeL SIG-IS Workshop; Tel Aviv, Israel   M ogul sky V Hofer, S Sang, B  Schubert J St uffl er T.; M\374ller, A.; Chlebek, C.; Kaufmann, H. \(2009 EnMAP Hyperspectral Imaging Sensor On-Board Calibration Approach. In: EARSeL SIG-IS Workshop Tel Aviv, Israel 6 M\374 ller A.; Brau n  A.; M\374 h l e, H.; M\374 ller, R.; Kau f m an n   H.; Storch, T.; Heiden, U.; Gredel, J.; von Bargen, A 2009\ Designing the Ground Segment of EnMAP Elements, Organisation, and Challenges. In: EARSeL SIG-IS Workshop; Tel Aviv, Israel  M 374 l l e r, R upert  Krau\337, Thom as  Lehner M a nfred  Reinartz, Peter; Schroeder, Manfred; H\366rsch, Bianca 2008\GMES Fast Track Land Service 2006-2008 Orthorectification of SPOT 4 5 and IRS-P6 LISS III Data In: ISPRS Congress Beijing 2008, 2008, Beijing 8 M\374 ller Ru p ert; Leh n er, Man fred  Rein artz, Peter Schroeder, Manfred \(2005 SPACEBORNE AND AIRBORNE LINE SCANNER IMAGES USING A GENERIC ORTHO IMAGE PROCESSOR. In: High Resolution Earth Imaging for Geospatial Information, Hannover, 17.-20. Mai 2005 9 ller, Ru p ert; Leh n er Man fred   M\374 ller Rain er  Reinartz, Peter; Schroeder, Manfred; Vollmer, Beate 2002\A program for direct georeferencing of airborne and spaceborne line scanner images. In: Integrating Remote Sensing at the Global, Regional and Local Scale Denver CO, Nov. 10-15 2002  R i cht e r, R 1996 A spat i a l l y adapt i v e fast at m o spheri c correction algorithm. International Journal of Remote Sensing, 17\(6  1998 Corr ection of satellite imagery over mountainous terrain. Applied Optics, 37\(18 4015  R o ssner, G Schaadt P C h l e bek, C  von B a rgen, A 2009\ EnMAP \226 Germany\222s Hyperspectral Earth Observation Mission: Outline and Objectives of the EnMAP Mission. In: EARSeL SIG-IS Workshop; Tel Aviv, Israel, 2002  R o t h A Kn\366pfl e W  St runz, G Lehner, M  R e i n art z  P.; 2002: \223Towards a Global Elevation Product Combination of Multi-Source Digital Elevation Models\224 Symposium on Geospatial Theory, Processing and Applications, Ottawa, 2002  Schnei d er, M a t h i a s  R e i n art z  Pet e r 2009 M A TC HING OF HIGH RESOLUTION OPTICAL DATA TO A SHADED DEM. In: IGARSS 2009, 13.-17.07.2009 Cape Town, South Africa   St orch, T de M i guel A Pal ubi nskas, G M 374 l l e r, R   Richter, R.; M\374ller, A.; Guanter, L.; Segl, K.; Kaufmann H. \(2009\ Processing Chain for the Future Hyperspectral Mission. In: EARSeL SIG-IS Workshop; Tel Aviv, Israel   Stuffler, T.; Hofer, S.; Lei pold, M.; F\366rster, K.-P.; Sang B.; Schubert, J.; Penn\351, B.; Kaufmann, H.; M\374ller, A Chlebek, C. \(2009\ent \226 Instrument and Mission Parameters. In: EARSeL SIG-IS Workshop; Tel Aviv, Israel   Stuffler, T.; Kaufm a nn, C.; Hofer, S F\366rster K.-P Schreier, G.; Mueller, A.; Eckardt, A.; Bach, H.; Penn\351 B.; Benz, U.; Haydn, R. \(2007\ The EnMAP hyperspectral imager\227An advanced optical payload for future applications in Eart h observation programmes. Acta Astronautica, 61\(1-6 18  Su ri S.; Rein artz, P., in p r ess. Mu tu al In fo rm atio n b a sed  registration of TerraSAR-X and IKONOS imagery in urban area, Accepted in IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing \(Special Issue: TerraSAR-X  Suri, S.; Reinartz, P., 2009 On the possibility of intensity based registration for metric resolution imagery, in Proc 12th International AGILE Conference on Geographic Information Science, June 2009, Hannover, Germany     


  9 B IOGRAPHY  Rupert M\374ller received the Dipl.-Phys degree from the Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich, Germany, in 1985 He is a Team Leader of the \223Processors and Traffic Monitoring\224 group, Remote Sensing Technology Institute, German Aerospace Center \(DLR\, Wessling Germany, and is responsible for the EnMAP \(Environmental Mapping and Analysis Program processing, calibration and qua lity assessment part within the ground segment as well as several ESA projects. His main research interests include photogrammetric evaluation of space borne sa tellite data and digital image processing  


  10     Figure 6. Surface Base Total Cost Summary   


data and process standards positively affects process costs, has been corroborated. The path coefficient for this relationship is highly significant \(p &lt;= 0.001  H3: The forecasted positive impact of a combined standard force on the quality determinant of the recruiting process has been corroborated for this sample with p &lt;= 0.001  5.1 Implications for theory  In this paper we developed a theoretical research model around the combined effect of process and data standards on business process performance in staff recruitment. Such a model has not yet been offered in human resources information systems \(HRIS research In addition, this paper provides empirical substantiation and validation of the developed hypothesis using data from a survey sent to Fortune-1,000 companies in Germany. The results show that a sensible combination of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive impact on the outcomes of the entire recruiting process. These outcomes are measured as time-to-hire costs-per-hire as well as the process quality for applicants \(customer satisfaction quality of hired candidates With these two main contributions, the paper fills a gap in existing literature and can serve as starting point for promising future research Our results were not fully able to answer how exactly both standard types should be combined to provide the positive impact. As indicated in section 2.3 we assume that neither process nor data standards are an end in themselves. Quite a high number of cases show that the introduction of process standards is more successful if accompanied by a simultaneous introduction of data standards. Some cases show that data standards tend to fail if not embedded in a process standardization context. We leave a further discussion of the operative interplay of process and data standards for further research \(compare section 5.4 In their case study research about the use of process standards in staff recruitment, von Stetten et al. [31 showed that the observed company implemented a uniform data standard and then process standards on how to recruit an employee. In this case the company was able to cut their costs by a third and reduced their timeto-hire by around 20 days from 90 to 70  5.2 Managerial implications  The most important finding of this research is that the combined implementation of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive and direct impact on the overall performance of the recruiting process \(measured in time-to-hire, costs-per-hire and the process quality for applicant and company These empirical findings confirm the results of case study research by von Stetten et al. [31] who examined the positive influence of standardization in staff recruitment. Managers in HR and IT could benefit from this approach and enhance their efforts to standardize the corporate recruitment process. An important precondition seems to be a prior implementation of a uniform data standard before starting to standardize the process von Stetten et al. [31]. Examples of process standards could be related to the specific recruiter tasks, the channels they use to find and attract a specific applicant as well as the ways they communicate with their candidates. Several companies use standard chanProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 nels to attract candidates, such as their corporate website or an Internet job portal such as Monster.com [18 How candidates apply and companies communicate with their candidates is also becoming increasingly standardized in current staff recruitment as the candidates frequently use standardized web forms to apply and the companies use email for communication [19 Finally a rising degree of standardization in staff recruitment will lead to a new definition of recruiters tasks as one recruiter will not be responsible for performing the entire process from candidate attraction to final selection  Table 7: Overview of managerial implications Implications Combined implementation of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive and direct impact on the overall performance of the recruiting process Authors,[31 A uniform data standard \(for applicant relevant information standardization \([31 Standardized channels to first attract applicants and then communicate with them ? as a means of process standardization ? increase the overall performance of the recruiting process \(Authors,[18],[19 Increasing specialization and modularization of a single recruiter's activities ? as a means of process standardization ? increase the overall performance of the recruiting process \(Authors  5.3 Limitations  As with any work in a new field of research, relevant literature to build on is almost nonexistent. Following Wuellenweber et al. [37] "in standardization research determining the value of a standard has remained an open issue for decades. Looking at process standards, things seem to be even worse." Unfortunately the operationalization of "process standard" used in this paper could thus not build too much on earlier work in standardization research. As a result we focused the operationalization of prior findings of HR research As with any empirical research paper, this work has some associated limitations. We have only discussed one process to examine the combined impact of process and data standards, so the significant results might show a single example for the recruitment process. We assume there might be differences for different processes. Future research should discuss this aspect in more detail Furthermore, our survey was limited to major enterprises in Germany. Therefore our results may not be directly transferred to any other country or region In addition, our results could be affected by common method variance because we collected the data from participants at the same time using the same questionnaire [24  5.4 Further research  In this paper, we have shown that combined process and data standards have a positive impact on business process performance in terms of the individual measuring dimensions of business process time, cost and quality for our overall data sample of major German enterprises. We assume that interesting future results might be provided by looking at specific industry \(sub tors, branches or companies of different sizes \(e.g 


tors, branches or companies of different sizes \(e.g large-scale vs. SME Building on the proposal of the "business process standardization" construct by Muenstermann and Weitzel [22], future research should try to further improve the operationalization of "process standards In this paper we measured business process performance using the three business process measurement dimensions of business process time, cost and quality It might be interesting to complement these by adding softer" dimensions, such as business process flexibility, agility or robustness This paper offers an initial understanding of the interplay between process and data standards. Moreover in our further research, we will investigate the individual and separate influence of process and data standards on process performance. Is the influence of process standardization higher than that of data standardization? Do they conflict with each other In addition we will complete two more case studies and send out a new questionnaire to Germany?s Fortune 1,000 companies that will then allow us to analyze the influence of both process and data standardization on each of the business process performance measurement dimensions \(time, cost and quality In addition, we also aim to investigate whether most firms started their standardization effort \(process and data ture \(or even thereafter pendently of major IT changes Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 6. References  1] Bagozzi, R. P. and Yi, Y. \(1988 structural equation models. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 16\(1 2] Breaugh, J. A. and Starke, M. \(2000 ployee recruitment: So many studies, so many remaining questions. Journal of Management, 26\(3 3] Brislin, R. W. \(1970 research. Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, 1\(3 216 4] Chin, W. W. \(1998 structural equation modeling. In Marcoulides, G. A., editor Modern Methods for Business Research, pages 295?336 Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah, NJ, USA 5] Chin, W. W. \(2000 tial Least Squares &amp; PLS-Graph. Home Page. [On-line Available at: http://disc-nt.cba.uh.edu/chin/plsfaq.htm 6] Chin, W. W. and Todd, P. A. \(1995 ness, and ease of use of structural equation modeling in MIS research: a note of caution. MIS Quarterly, 19\(2 7] Davenport, T. H. and Short, J. E. \(1990 trial engineering: information technology and business process redesign. Sloan Management Review, 31\(4 8] de Vries, H. \(2006 zation. International Journal of IT Standards and Standardization Research, 4\(1 9] Eckhardt, A., Laumer, S., Koenig, W., and Weitzel, T 2008 tration, esp. Information Management, University of Frankfurt 10] Faerber, F., Keim, T., and Weitzel, T. \(2003 mated recommendation approach to personnel selection. In Proceedings of the 2003 Americas Conference on Information Systems, Tampa 11] Ferstl, O. K. and Sinz, E. J. \(1997 ness systems using the semantic object model \(SOM thodological framework, chapter Handbook on architectures of information systems. International handbook on information systems. Springer 


tion systems. Springer 12] Fomin, V. and Lyytinen, K. \(2000 cake before cutting it into pieces: Alice in Wonderland or radio engineers' gang in the Nordic countries? IGI Publishing, Hershey, PA, USA 13] Fornell, C. and Larcker, D. F. \(1981 tural equation models with unobservable variables and measurement errors. Journal of Marketing Research, 18\(1 50 14] Frank, F. D., Finnegan, R. P., and Taylor, C. R. \(2004 The race for talent: retaining and engaging workers in the 21st century. Human Resource Planning, 27\(3 15] Gefen, D., Straub, D. W., and Boudreau, M.-C. \(2000 Structural equation modeling and regression: Guidelines for research practice. Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 4\(7 16] Herwig, V. \(2006 an service-oriented architecture. In Proc. IEEE Services Computing Workshops SCW '06, pages 156?164 17] ISO, T. \(1996 related activities ? General vocabulary". International Organisation for Standardization / International Electrotechnical Commission, Geneva, 7th edition 18] Keim, T. and Weitzel, T. \(2006 professionals: An empirical analysis of employer and job seeker behavior on the IT labor market. Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 19] Laumer, S., Eckhardt, A., and Trunk, N. \(2008 your parents say? ? analyzing it adoption influencing factors for full and under age applicants. forthcoming in Information Systems Frontiers 20] Luftman, J., Kempaiah, R., and Nash, E. \(2006 issues for it executives 2005. MIS Quarterly Executive 5\(2 21] Mooney, J. G., Gurbaxani, V., and Kraemer, K. L 1996 ness value of information technology. SIGMIS Database 27\(2 22] Muenstermann, B. and Weitzel, T. \(2008 process standards? Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Information Resources Management \(ConfIRM 2008 23] National Institute of Standards and Technology \(1996 Electronic data interchange \(EDI Information Processing Standards Publications 24] Podsakoff, P. M., MacKenzie, S. B., Lee, J. Y., and Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003 research: A critical review of the literature and recommended remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, 88:879?903 25] Porter, M. E. \(1985 niques for analyzing industries and competitors. Free Press New York 26] Ramakumar, A. and Cooper, B. \(2004 dization proves profitable. Quality, 43\(2 27] Riemenschneider, C. K., Moore, J. E., and Armstrong D. \(2008 Renewed Demand for IT Workers, European Journal of Information Systems \(EJIS 28] Ross, J. W. \(2003 competency: learning in stages. MIS Quarterly Executive 2\(1 29] Rossi, B., Russo, B., and Succi, G. \(2008 about the diffusion of data standards inside European public organizations. 3rd International Conference on Information Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 and Communication Technologies: From Theory to Applications, 2008. ICTTA 2008, 1?6 30] S  nchez-Rodr  guez, C., Hemsworth, D., Mart  nezLorente, n. R., and Clavel, J. G. \(2006 on the impact of standardization of materials and purchasing procedures on purchasing and business performance. Supply 


procedures on purchasing and business performance. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 11\(1 31] Stetten, A. v., Muenstermann, B., Eckhardt, A., and Laumer, S. \(2008 value of business process standardization - a case study approach. Proceedings of the 14th Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2008 32] Straub, D., Gefen, D., and Boudreau, M.-C. \(2004 ISWorld quantitative, positivist research methods website On-line]. Available at: http://dstraub.cis.gsu.edu:88/quant 33] Ungan, M. C. \(2006 documentation. Business Process Management Journal 12\(2 34] Venkatesh, V. \(2006 on future directions for research on individual-level technology adoption with a focus on decision making. Decision Sciences, 37\(22 35] Vinzi, V. E., Lauro, C., and Tenenhaus, M. \(2003 Path Modelling. DMS 36] Wigand, R. T., Steinfield, C. W., and Markus, M. L 2005 try structure outcomes: The case of the U.S. home mortgage industry. Journal of Management Information Systems 22\(2 37] Wuellenweber, K., Beimborn, D., Weitzel, T., and Koenig, W. \(2008 business process outsourcing success. Information Systems Frontiers, 10\(2  7. Appendix  Table 8: Cross loadings Proc. Cost Data Stand Proc Stand Proc Qual Stand Inter Proc Time Process Standards \(1 Process Standards \(2 Process Standards \(3 Process Standards \(4 Process Standards \(5 Process Standards \(6 Data Standards \(1 Data Standards \(2 Data Standards \(3 Data Standards \(4 Data Standards \(5 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(1 Combined P&amp;D 0.4504 0.9762 0.6555 0.4436 0.8575 0.5252 Standards \(2 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(3 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(4 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(5 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(6 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(7 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(8 Combined P&amp;D 


Standards \(9 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(10 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(11 Business Process Time \(1 Business Process Time \(2 Business Process Time \(3 Business Process Cost 1 Business Process Cost 2 Business Process Cost 3 Business Process Cost 4 Business Process Quality \(1 Business Process Quality \(2 Business Process Quality \(3  Table 9: Indicators Indicator Description Process-Time-1 We have reduced the time between the identification of a vacancy and the posting of the job ad Process-Time-2 We have reduced the time between the incoming applications and the transmitted notice of arrival for the respective applicant Process-Time-3 We have reduced the time between the identification of a vacancy and its fill Process-Cost-1 We were able to reduce the costs for candidate attraction Process-Cost-2 We were able to reduce the costs for the response management with the recruiting process Process-Cost-3 We were able to reduce the costs for the internal applicant tracking Process-Cost-4 We were able to reduce the costs per tracked application Process-Quality-1 We were able to enhance the overall applicant quality Process-Quality-2 We were able to enhance the quality of applicants' data Process-Quality-3 We were able to enhance the proportion of top candidates Process-Quality-4 Our applicants are very satisfied with our offer of information Process-Stand.-1 We have a well-regulated process cycle for applicant tracking in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-2 We have established an efficient organized process in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-3 We have established highly standardized procedures in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-4 We have documented our actions to a great extent Process-Stand.-5 We have established a fixed procedure for the collaboration between HR and the operating departments Process-Stand.-5 We already work with process standards in our staff recruitment Data-Stand-1 We already use a data standard in our staff recruitment Data-Stand-2 I expect that we will use a data standard in staff recruitment in the future as well Data-Stand-3 We plan to use a data standard in staff recruitment in the future as well Data-Stand-4 A uniform data standard is more important in our company as process standards Data-Stand-5 We use the same data standard as our competitors  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


especially of computer networks, is often characterized by the multi-state performance degradations before reaching the complete failure. This multi-state nature of reliability has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and the most significant advances have been in the field of multistate reliability modeling \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003                                                 4. STRATEGIC MODELING AND DYNAMIC   Box 3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis  Dependence Mechanisms  Dependence is often the central focus of multivariate survival analysis, and together with censoring, they complicate survival analysis most significantly. Hougaard \(2000 three mechanisms of dependence: \(i ii iii Common events are equivalent to common mode failures in reliability analysis, for example, failure events due to accidents or natural disasters. The common risks mechanism describes the scenario that the individuals are dependent due to some common unobserved risks such as common genes in siblings or a bug in the operating system that may affect all software running on 


operating system that may affect all software running on it. The third mechanism, event-related mechanism refers to the phenomena that the actual event itself changes the risk, such as virus infection of a computer node Shared Frailty Modeling  Shared frailty theory occupies the central focus of multivariate survival analysis. The dominance is not accidental because frailty captures crucial but often directly unobservable \(latent random variables, which are attributable for dependence and variations. To some extent, dependence, variation randomness, and frailty all address some facets of multivariate failure events. The frailty theory provides a unique set of approaches to address the theoretical and practical issues related to those four concepts.  Similar to the fact that censoring is the trademark feature of survival analysis \(both univariate and multivariate frailty theory is the trademark of multivariate survival analysis. These two trademark properties, censoringhandling and frailty modeling, have made multivariate survival analysis a unique and indispensable mathematical tool for biomedical and public health research Multi-State Modeling  Multi-state has been developed concurrently in several fields in the last decade, including survival analysis \(Hougaard 2000 reliability \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003 Commenges 1999 Huzurbazar 2006 multi-state modeling has been adopted to solve the domain specific problems, and the flow graph modeling offers a flexible and powerful approach to analyze multi-state models in general. Multi-State model is often formulated as Markov Process models. The transition probabilities in multi-states modeling are well defined by survivor functions \(Hougaard 2000 multi-state model is to estimate the state transition probabilities from hazards functions. multivariate system. According to Lisnianski and Levitin's \(2003 any systems that can have a finite number of performance rates are multi-state systems. Furthermore a system may consists of components which themselves could be multi-state subsystems 10 4. STRATEGIC LEVEL MODELING AND DYNAMIC HYBRID FAULT MODELS  Hybrid fault models are derived from agreement algorithms Lynch 1997 redundancy management in fault tolerance.  Therefore, the choice of hybrid fault models directly affects reliability analysis and fault tolerance. Despite the close ties between reliability and fault tolerance fields, Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e Ma 2008a with regard to the quantitative relationship between reliability analysis and hybrid fault models. To address the unrealistic assumption, they proposed a new concept  dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF mathematical tools \(survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling we first briefly describe the issues involved and summarize some of their key findings in Box 4.1  Agreement algorithms started out with the introduction of the Byzantine general problem by Pease et al. \(1980 Lamport \(1982 system are abstracted as generals of an army.  Loyal generals \(non-faulty components algorithm e.g., to attack or retreat while traitors \(or bad components others by sending conflicting messages. Because the focus of agreement algorithms is to reach agreement in the presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the 


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


