 Building a resource overlay for distributed monitoring       This work was supported in partial by the Aviation Foundation of China \(No  2008ZC51050\ooperation Program of Beijing Municipal Commission of Education\(JD100060630\F Wei Li, Ruiting Fan, Long Zhang School of Computer Science and Technology Key Lab. of Beijing Network Technology Beihang University, Beijing, P.R.China Email: liw@buaa.edu.cn ,fanrtcat@163.com,zhanglongzhil126@126.com  Abstract 227To address the problems of resource sharing and utilization in the distributed environment, the paper aims to establish a resource overlay for the distributed system monitoring. The resource overlay can construct a logical space and the type of the nodes in the space can be classified as host node and resource node. The host node and resource node are mapped into the logical space of network by the consistent hash 
function and the location preserving hash function respectively An improved DHT algorithm is used to establishing the resource overlay, and supporting the range query for the resource information.  Experiments have proved the validation of the method, and the results show that it is an effective method for finding the available resource in less routing hops Keywords- resource overlay; distributed  resource monitoring; DHT location preserving Hash I   I NTRODUCTION  Effective resource monitoring in a large-scale distributed system, such as server, network, memory, storage and some other specific resources, will affect the performance of the system. The monitoring data can be used for load balancing job scheduling, fault diagnosis, and quality of service in the distributed system. Therefore, it is important to build a resource overlay for the distributed system monitoring. The resources 
include the state of the system, performance parameters applications, and process monitoring status about nodes of the distributed system. The performance parameters mainly refer to CPU utilization of each node, memory usage, I / O of disk network throughput, etc The core idea of DHT \(Distributed Hash Function\is that the distributed object is stored in the node using the Hash Key which can be calculated from the features \(keywords\ of the storage object by the hash function. However, DHT algorithm only supports exact query, not for the range query. There are already some research works in the improving of DHT algorithm for the distributed resources monitoring. In paper the method builds a mapping between resource types and the host node of the resources. While it can narrow the range of the routing in resources discovery, but in order to achieve the range query it still need to traverse the total relevant node. In 
the distributed environment with a large amount of nodes, this method is less efficient. SWORD 2 uses a kind of DHT algorithm for resource discovery, but it does not take into account the resources discovery in multiple domains Different from the above methods, the paper will map the distributed computing nodes and attribute information to host node and resource node in logical space of the resource overlay modifying association rules of the distributed system nodes and the logical space, and take a different mapping method in order to achieve the range and multiple attributes query of resource node. Experiments show that the method can quickly find the right resources under the less routing hops and lower delay II  T HE METHOD FOR RESOURCE SHARING BASED ON DHT  ALGORITHM  A 
 The resource overlay We build a resources overlay for distributed monitoring based on the layered framework \(fig 1\ The architecture consists of two layers: the upper layer is function layer to provide the action interface for the resources monitor of node The lower layer is implementation level including the directory service module, searching and maintaining the attribute information, updating mechanism, the routing module guiding the forwarding for the news service and maintaining the topology, and the messaging service module for the communications among the nodes  
    
 Figure 1  Framework of Resource Overlay The resource monitor is deployed in each node to detect the performance metrics in the resource overlay. The resource metrics are classified into two types: numeric attribute and string attribute. The numeric attribute can be integer or floating type. The resource attributes such as the information of CPU 154 
The 1st International Conference on Information Science and Engineering \\(ICISE2009 
978-0-7695-3887-7/09/$26.00 \2512009 IEEE 


212 212 212 212          1 NodeID expresses the computing node in the distributed system and is the only variable. Resource node corresponds the attribute information of the computing node in the distributed system, which is described by three-tuple resourceID resourceInfo, addressInfo   The resourceInfo describes information for the resource attribute, and addressInfo is for resource location. The resourceID is marked for the location where resource attribute information is in the logical space. It is a numeric type attribute and has a partial order relation with attribute values. Resource node is determined by both resourceID and addressInfo corresponding with each attribute The information of three-tuple, stored on the immediate successor resource node, is maintained by host node in the logical space. Indexing information for each resource node is only stored in one host node The method improves Chord algorithm   that the length of the logic of the space is 8 bits and the number of node name is the ID of node. Figure 2 shows the model for the improving algorithm. When computing resources of the distributed system join in the network, they firstly publish the information to host node, and then to the network. The information of resource node will eventually be routed to its corresponding with immediate successor node. If node7 is res2 and res5 direct successor node, the three-tuple corresponding with these resource nodes will be stored on node7. The query on resource node is to send message to the immediate successor node to search 002  002     2  i v  j v   sp lit in to   i v  k v  d  k v  j v  t h e  corresponding interval H i v H j v   u st b e sp lit in t o   H i v H k v   d  H k v H j v    H\(v  Here 1 H is the consistent hash function, and 2 H is the location preserving hash function. The filed of NodeID is divided into two parts as attribute type field of m bits and attribute value field of n bits. The consistent hash function is used to map the attribute type, in order to make the attribute of node uniformly distributed in the logical space avoiding the condition of the load imbalance Due to support the range query for resource node and maintain the partial order relation between the attribute, the resource node ID corresponding with node60 is larger than node150; As a result of node100 and node150 have the same CPU idle which is 0.75,  the direct successor of res14 saves two different resource nodes with 14 as their ID           Figure 2  The model of the improving algorithm B  Mapping algorithm on resource node The locality preserving hash 1  function has the following property 1\ H i v H j v  iff i v  j v  and if an interval 2  The logical space is divided into the space of multiple attribute by the ID of attribute type The query of the attribute is along the corresponding arcs. The method supports the changes of resource attribute types The value of the attribute is mapped by the locality preserving hash function keeping a partial order relation with the attribute type We give an example: host node is buaa/202.112.136.231 4133, and its information of resources attribute described by RSL as shown in table 1. According to RSL description, we compute the ID of host node by the consistent hash function to get the  nodeID of host node with 160 bits for 28482ba862b4dc66ce0ebe7bef5dd806cac5114e, corresponding in our method is suitable with the property of the locality preserving hash   and memory, the status of net devices and partitions, the average of load and up time are numeric type, which play an important role in the selection resources and is the most critical resources for the query to support fuzzy query. Some other resources like available devices attributes are string type, and require exact match. The range query is about the search of numeric type. According to the requests from each node, the matched resource can be searched by the range query The logical node is consisted of host node and resource node, respectively mapped by the consistent hash and the locality preserving hash 1  Function Hash fo ResourceIn sh ResourceHa Function Hash Consistent NodeHash  ale attributeV ame attributeN RHash resourceID Address NHash\(node nodeID peerID 155  Vale attribute H Name attribute H valueID typeID  ale attributeV ame attributeN sh resourceHa resourceID 2 1  Equation \(2\ shows the mapping function of resourceID 


In this section, we present evaluation results  A  Explaination TABLE II  A TRRIBUTE OF ACTION  Action of host node Interval of action Consumption of bandwidth Distribution of attribute information The node join the network Yes Change of attribute information Based on the attribute value No Detection of attribute update 1s,90s No Request for query 1s,45s Y e s  Maintaining for topology 5s,600s Y e s  Table 2 shows the setting of the node action in the simulation environment. The resource information is disseminated while host node is on initialization TABLE III  L IST OF RESOURCE ATTRIBUTE  Type of resource Changing frequency Update threshold Range of attribute value       As shown in table 3, there are five types of resource attribute, including the static attribute such as dominant frequency of CPU and Memory value, and dynamic attribute for CPU, Memory and idleness of bandwidth. In the paper experiments conduct on the wave of TS10000 cluster and the largest number of nodes for the simulation is 5000  to a list for triple of resources node as shown in Figure 3, the front 16 bits of resourceID is for the distributed management domain ID. After the domain ID is the property of four types of ID, Figure Cpu idle rate of the attribute type. The last 128 bits of  resourceID is attribute value ID of resource TABLE I  T HE MAPPING FOR THE RESOURCE INFORMATION  Description for distributed resource  Three-tuple for resource node cpu-speed 3.0GHz c9a3,760d,5b632fe0865ea889b1ddffa43df30920 Cpu : 3.0GHZ, buaa/202.112.136.231:4133 cpu-idle 0.682 c9a3,bc27,47b1209d4f48f81d86ef602f39ead05c Cpu-idle : 0.682, buaa/202.112.136.231:4133 memory-size 1024 c9a3,0259,076e9b0b3ce4627c6eef91485bfc40a8 Memory : 1024, buaa/202.112.136.231:4133 memory-idle 0.237 c9a3,0f65,71ab56eba6d6ba7a4a25bd1f527f0ffc Memory-idle:0.237,buaa/202.112.136.231:4133 C  The query and update of resource node Single-attribute query approach is as follows: assuming query resources of node 0 is in accordance with v 156  The node 0 constructs a query request     _ X R k range Query k is the key for Chord routing, initially k=H\(l R is the expected range of attribute value. X is a list of resources discovered in the range. Initially, X is Null. node 0 sends the request to the target node k When node 1 receives the query request, it searches the local resource entries and adds the matched resources to X. Then node 1 checks whether it is the successor of H\(u also. If true, it sends back the search response to node 0  with X. Otherwise, it forwards the query request     _ X R k range Query to its immediate successor node j node j  repeats the process until forwarding to node u  In terms of the definition of H\(u the value of resource node is in the range of [l, u and t h e i m m e d i a t e suc c e ssor nod e must be located between node 1 and node u in the Chord ring. So the above query algorithm is complete. Obviously, the query request takes  log N O hops for N nodes. The next sequential forwarding from node 1 to node u takes   len O where len is the number of nodes between node 1 and node u So there are total  log len N O  routing hops to resolve a range query for single attribute. Since there are len nodes that might contain the resources matching the range query, we have to visit all of those len nodes to find the correct search result. In this sense  log len N O   routing hops is optimal for range query Multi-attribute query approach: node 0 divide query 0 0 0 u v l  which depends on the largest time-consuming query Due to the dynamic attribute of distributed resources, the information for resource node is invalid after the change of the attribute value.  In order to ensure the accuracy of resource monitoring, we need to monitor the change conditions for the resource node and update the resource information. The process for the updating is that host node sends messages to request for deleting the invalid resource node, and then publishes the latest resource node to the network. The complexity of the method is  log n O  III  EVALUATION   u v l 003 003 003 003  1 1 1 u v l 003 003  2 2 2 u v l 003 003 205 n n n u v l 003 003  into a number of single-attribute query i i i i u v l v 003 003  then send query request     _ i i i X R k range Query to the corresponding attribute domain successively. Finally node 0 calculates the intersection of each result collection X  i X X X  1 0 X is the final result. It takes   log  i len n O Max 


 B  Result  Figure 3  Response time of random resource query Figure 3 is an analysis on the delay of the query with nonempty value. When the number of nodes reaches 5000, the delay can still be controlled within 2 seconds; moreover, the rate of the growth is very stable, which is lower than the growth of the host node  Figure 4  Response time of latency Figure 4 is a comparison of average delay between random query and enumeration query. The growth rate of the delay is declining with the increasing numbers of the nodes in enumeration query. Due to the delay of the two queries raises the growth rate of the response time in enumeration query is higher than that in random query Figure 5 shows the comparison of the average routing hops for query. The growth of the hops is similar with the delay of the query. While the numbers of the nodes are fewer than 800 the average routing hops is lower than n log due to the policy in the experiment is maintaining the whole network topology. it is an effective method for finding the available resource in less routing hops  Figure 5  Comparison of routing hops for query R EFERENCES  The paper describes a method that the resource is shared in the overlay. Using the location preserving hash function to map the resource attribute as resource node to the logical space of the distributed system network, the improving algorithm achieves the request of range query. Through the experiment the method can be effective in the resource overlay for distributed system.  According to the host node in the distributed system with high stability, we do not take into DHT algorithm about the flutter.  In the next study we will focus on the solution of the load imbalance caused by non-uniformity and the method on the domains of multiple managements  1  Min Cai MAAN: a multi-attribute addressable network for grid information services 4th International Workshop on Grid Computing Grid2003\,Journal of Grid Computing 2004,Vol.2, No.1,pages 314 2  Scalable Wide-Area Resource Discovery,D. Oppenheimer, J. Albrecht D. Patterson, and A. Vahdat.. Technical Report UCB//CSD-04-1334 UC Berkeley, 2004 3  Adeep S. Cheema, Moosa Muhammad, and Indranil Gupta Peer-topeer Discovery of Computational Resources for Grid Applications 2005,Grid Computing WorkShop 4  Range queries in trie-structured overlays ,Anwitaman Datta, Manfred Hauswirth, Renault John, Roman Schmidt, Karl Aberer Ecole Polytechnique F\264ed\264erale de Lausanne \(EPFL\ CH-1015 Lausanne Switzerland 5  Stoica I, Morris R, Karger D, Kaashoek F, Balakrishnan H. Chord: A scalable peer-to-peer lookup service for Internet applications.Cruz R Varghese G,eds. Proc. of the 2001 Conference on Applications Technologies,Architectures,and Protocols for Computer Communications\(SigComm\.New York:ACM Press, 2001. 149 160 6  Xuehai Zhang, Jeffrey L.Freschl, and Jennifer M.Schopf, A Performance Study of Monitoring and Information Services for Distributed Systems,August 2003,Proceedings of HPDC 7  LEWIN, D,Consistent hashing and random trees: Algorithms for caching in distributed networks, Master's thesis, Department of EECS MIT, 1998 8  Yong Meng, and Xianbing Wang, A DHT-Based Grid Resource Indexing and Discovery Scheme, National University of Singapore SINGAPORE-MIT ALLIANCE SYMPOSIUM 2005  157 


     Figure 3. The Framework  As can be deduced from the figure, we can make use of the argumentation system whenever the stakeholders cannot reach a consensus in deciding the performance scores. Figure 3 shows the criteria specific argumentation that takes place once the need for deriving performance scores through argumentation ar ises. Every alternative is scored against criteria in the decision matrix. The arguments are entered in to the system by the stakeholders target a specific criterion for an alternative. The argumentation input itself consists of four inputs i.e. the name of the stake holder, th e argument specification, the weight of the argument and the priority of the stakeholder The name of the stake holder specifies the identity of the person specifying the argument. The argument is a sentence in English language which portrays the views and opinions of the stakeholder. The weight of the argument represents the degree of attack or support of that argument for that criterion    Figure 4. Argumentation Input  Figure 4 demonstrates how the addition of an argument is handled in our present system. The input for Group Name and User Name  correspond to a specific user and his group. The rest of the entries i.e. priority and weight are the same as discussed previously. The terms  Alternative and Position are synonymous in the system  4.2. Multi-Criteria Argumentation Tree Structure  Table 1 shows a sample decision matrix in which various alternatives are evaluated agai nst different criterion. The scores specified in the decision matrix can be either  Easily Determined or Controversial  Figure 5 shows argumentation tree that will be developed for evaluation of subjective scores for the decision matrix in Table 1  Table 1. Sample Decision Matrix    Every criterion in Table 1 h as an alternative as a child node. A detailed argumentation tree is developed for this alternative. In this way, the arguments are stated targeting this very criterion. This pin-points the arguments being stated to the highlighted matter and can extract the finer details of the concerning issue  147 


     Figure 5. Sample Argumentation Tree  Using the above sample tree approach, we can evaluate the performance score of every alternative using the techniques of fuzzy association matrix to derive the impact of indirect arguments and aggregating the scores derived from the argumentation sub-tree with the weight of the criteria to derive the performance scores in the decision matrix  5. CASE STUDY  As a part of our investigation, we took a project which was being implemented at the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Department of Missouri University of Science and Technology, Rolla. The project served as an ideal platform for us to test our proposed technique because the issue involved a decision problem which was under review of concerned research team. The issue had certain evaluation criteria which were laid down by the team members themselves. Ever y criterion in the criterion set had a favorability factor or weight which represented the role that criteria played in deciding the winning alternative. We decided to use Analytical Hierarchy Process \(AHP\or prioritizing the criteria due to its wide use and acceptability. The alternatives to be evaluated were also proposed by the team members or more so; the stakeholders. The n ature of the issue involved selecting the most favorable alternative from the set of underlined alternatives. The alternative positions were first evaluated on the specified criteria. Each alternative was given a quantified value which indicated its degree of satisfaction  for the given criterion. This score was given by stakeholders after rigorous discussions and reviews. The values were then put in the decision matrix and the favorability of all the alternatives was calculated using the sum of products of the weights of criteria and the score of an alternative with respect to that criteria. The alternative with the highest favorability score was selected. The following sections describe th e steps taken to resolve the issue for this research project  5.1 Description  The artifacts presented at the time of decision making were; the issue, the criterion set, a set of alternatives and concerned stakeholders. The subsections describe how and why the artifacts were important for decision making  5.1.1. The Issue The issue deals with selecting a suitable software platform for developing a Mine Detection Training Software The development of mine detection training tool is a research project supported by the US army. The project deals with simulating the real world conditions while detecting mines; into a system which could be used for training purposes. The development of this kind of a simulated tool has a lot of advantage over the previously developed systems. The systems already present for mine detection and training purposes are ve ry basic and do not have much flexibility in terms of customization. The simulated environment for such an environment will require an efficient software tool which can display the performance of a trainee on a real time basis. The system will also support some very important functionalities like recognizing different intensities of sound generation on identification of different kinds of mines, a control panel for customizing the simulated mine field and generation of reports showing quantitative summary performance in terms of coverage rate statistics, covered area statistics and mine target location   5.1.2. The Stakeholders The stakeholders involved in the decision process are two students from the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering department  who are responsible for developing the sound d etection algorithm. Another stakeholder is a Computer Science  student responsible for developing the software t ool. This software tool will help the trainer evaluate a traineeês performance with respect to functionalities defined above. Two professors one from Computer Science and another from Mechanical Engineering department act as stakeholders responsible 148 


   for overlooking the overall software development process and playing a crucial role in making important decisions  5.1.3. The Criterion Set As stated earlier, criterion is the attribute for which favorability of an alternativ e is calculated. The criterion set defined for this case study comprises of Reusability  Meeting Operational Requirements and Meeting Project Deadline By reusability, we mean, the amount of reuse of different functionalities that ca n be achieved from the previously developed system on Mine detection training tool. Meeting operational requirements implies how effectively a desired operational capability can be satisfied by an alternative. For example, some alternative might lack a certain operational capability like database support whereas another may support it with enhanced features. Meeting project deadline stresses on the fact whether the project requirements can be satisfactorily achieved within the stipulated deadline which in our case was around one year  5.1.4. The Alternatives To resolve the concerned issu e, the stakeholders decided to choose one software platfor m for developing the mine detection training tool among the three stated alternatives Adobe Director  Adobe Flash  Open GL were chosen as the three possible alternatives along with some justifications. Adobe Flash was chosen as one of the alternatives because; the stakeholders already had a previous developed system for mine detection developed using Adobe Flash    Figure 6. Mine Detection System Along With Three Alternatives One of the considerations involved here was to enhance this system rather than develop a new system from scratch. Same reason applied to choosing Adobe Director as one of the other alternatives. Open GL was picked up as one of the three alternatives in the case when a new development had to be started Open GL is an advanced software development platform and it could have served as a good platform for the mine detection training system  Figure 6 summarizes the pro ject and its three alternatives positions available  5.2. Prioritizing The Criteria  For an effective decision making, we had to weigh the criteria according to their im portance in the decision making process. For this, we choose Analytic Hierarchy process because of its effectiveness in performing pair wise comparison of elements .Table 2 shows the ranking table used for comparing the two criteria  Table 2. Criteria Comp arison Table For AHP  Value a ij  Comparison Description 1 Criteria i and j are of equal importance 3 Criteria i is weakly more important than j 5 Criteria i is strongly more important than j 7 Criteria i is very strongly more important than j 9 Criteria i is absolutely more important than j   Table 3. Comparison Values For Prioritizing Different Criteria   Reusability Meeting Operational Requirements Meeting project Deadline Reusability 1 1/5 3 Meeting Operational Requirements 5  1  7 Meeting Project Deadline  1/3 1/7  1   149 


   Table 4. Normalized Criteria Comparison Table In AHP   Reusability Meeting Operational Requirements Meeting project Deadline Reusability 0.157 0.148 0.272 Meeting Operational Requirements 0.789 0.744 0.636 Meeting Project Deadline 0.052 0.106 0.090  Table 3 and Table 4 show the weight values of the three criterions as compared to each other using the AHP process. These weights have been decided by the stakeholders after discussions among themselves Average weights can be derived from Table 4 as follows Reusability- 0.193 Meeting Operational Requirements- 0.724 Meeting Project Deadline- 0.083 These weights represent the priority of each criterion on a scale of 0 to 1  5.3. Argumentation Tree  We develop argumentation tree for each and every alternative separately. The ar guments are stated by stake holders and assembled under the alternative but they target a specific cr iterion. These arguments can either be supporting or attacking each other or their respective alternative nodes. We present three figures, where each figure represents the argumentation hierarchy for one alternative. Rectangular boxes represent the alternatives with the name of the alternative under it. Ovals represent the criteria with their descr iption. The arguments are specified by labels èAê, èBê, èCê for alternative çAdobe flashé, çAdobe Directoré and çOpen GLé respectively Along with the labels, the arguments also have indexes associated with them. Beneath the labels are two boxes The box on left shows the weight of the argument whereas the box on right shows the priority of the stakeholder who specifies the argument  Once the argument has been sp ecified, the user enters its weight. We first reassess the weights of the arguments using priority reassessment discussed in h e n us ing the techniques specified in [11 w e red u ce t h e arg u m e n t s  to a single level. Finally, the weighted summation of the arguments with the criteria weights helps us evaluate the final weights for the decision matrix. It is important to note here that, the aggregation method used for calculating the favorability is a weighted summation  The three argumentation hierarchies for the three alternatives are presented in the Figures 7, 8, and 9. The diagrams contain arguments, their weights and the stakeholderês priorities     Figure 7. Argumentation Tree For Adobe Flash   Figure 8. Argumentation Tree For Adobe Director 150 


     Figure 9. Argumentation Tree For Open GL  A1 The current system in flash does not have the functionality of dynamic allocation of particles like mine or clutter. It places them randomly  A1.1 That is not of much importance because it still gives a new position to mine and clutter particles A2 Current system in flash has faster response time as compared to system in Adobe Director A3 The current system doesnêt satisfy many of the features required for the new system like database A4 Adobe Flash cannot communicate with database A4.1 Flash doesnêt support database but database support is very important and critical A4.1.1 The system should be able to generate evaluation reports for trainee based on pr evious records stored in the database A5 Flash doesnêt create sound clips  A5.1 We donêt need sound creating features as the sys tem has to generate sound. We can play externally recorded sound files using Adobe Flash A6 Flash can provide good visual effects as compared to Adobe Director A7 The developer has good knowledge in development using Flash so the system can be developed quickly B1 We could reuse the system already developed for sound generation, as it is developed using Adobe Audition for analysis which is somehow related to Adobe Director B1.1 The current system is better synthesized in terms of sound production and the sound produced is also instantaneous rather than discrete B1.2 That current system has certain performance issues like slow response time B1.3 The current system in Adobe Director has the feature of producing dynamic coloring scheme on approaching a mine. This kind of scheme is highly preferable and is not present in Adobe Flash system B2 Adobe Director can provide more functionality as compared to the current flash system. E.g. Multiple sounds while detecting mines   B2.1 Adobe Director can provide better visual effects as compared to flash e.g. in case of GUIês   B2.2 A modified version of the current system in flash can also provide the same functionality B2.2.1 We cannot integrate code developed in other platforms with Flash, but Flash can be integrated in Adobe Director B3 The interface provided by flash is not professional enough. It is too simple and straight forward for doing more things in future   B4 Easily available plug-ins can help integrate the tracking system developed in C# with Adobe Director  B4.1 Code developed in Open GL/AL can also be integrated using Adobe Director using suitable stubs   B5 A new sound recognition algorithm is being developed in Adobe Audition which can be integrated with Adobe Director but not with Open GL or Flash Evidence supported B6 If the current system is reused; the project deadline can be met easily B7 The developer has very little experience in development using Adobe Director   B7.1 The developer can take help from the already developed system in Adobe Director C1 The tracking software already developed is coded in C#/NX5. We could reuse that and develop our system in Open GL/AL C1.1 Open GL has C# libraries which can be used to develop the system C2 Because the platform used is for high end application development, it can provide good GUI and database support C2.1 Open GL/AL can help us generate dynamic surfaces for mine detection and training which the original system in flash does not have C4 Open GL does not support connectivity with Adobe Audition. Adobe Audition is required for creating sound recognition algorithm C3 Open GL does not support connectivity with Adobe Audition. Adobe Audition is required for creating sound recognition algorithm C4 The time taken for developing the project using open GL will be comparatively more as the whole system would have to be developed from scratch C4.1 If Open GL has support for C# libraries, and then the system could be develope d faster as developer is quite familiar with programming languages like C 151 


   C4.2 Open GL has excellent documentation that could help the developer learn the platform with ease C4.3 Developer has very little ex perience in working with Open GL platform  For our case study, alternative B i.e. Adobe Director was the most favorable alternative amongst all the three. It catered to the reusability criteria quite well and aimed at meeting most of the desired operational requirements for the system   6. CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK  The main contribution of this paper is to develop an approach for evaluating performance scores in MultiCriteria decision making using an intelligent computational argumentation network. The evaluation process requires us to identify performance scores in multi criteria decision making which are not obtained objectively and quantify the same by providing a strong rationale. In this way, deeper analysis can be achieved in reducing the uncertainty problem involved in Multi Criteria decision paradigm. As a part of our future work we plan on conducting a large scale empirical analysis of the argumentation system to validate its effectiveness   REFERENCES  1  L  P Am g o u d  U sin g  A r g u men ts f o r mak i n g an d  ex p lain in g  decisions Artificial Intelligence 173 413-436, \(2009 2 A  Boch m a n   C ollectiv e A r g u men tatio n    Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning 2002 3 G  R Bu y u k o zk an  Ev alu a tio n o f sof tware d e v e lo p m en t  projects using a fuzzy multi-criteria decision approach Mathematics and Computers in Simualtion 77 464-475, \(2008 4 M T  Chen   F u zzy MCD M A p p r o ach t o Selec t Serv ice  Provider The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy 2003 5 J. Con k li n  an d  M. Beg e m a n   gIBIS: A Hypertext Tool for Exploratory Policy Discussion Transactions on Office Information Systems 6\(4\: 303  331, \(1988 6 B P  Duarte D e v elo p in g a p r o jec ts ev alu a tio n sy ste m based on multiple attribute value theroy Computer Operations Research 33 1488-1504, \(2006 7 E G  Fo rm an  T h e  A n a l y t ic Hier a rch y P r o cess A n  Exposition OR CHRONICLE 1999 8 M. L ease  an d J L  L i v e l y  Using an Issue Based Hypertext System to Capture Software LifeCycle Process Hypermedia  2\(1\, pp. 34  45, \(1990 9  P e id e L i u   E valu a tio n Mo d e l o f Custo m e r Satis f a c tio n o f  B2CE Commerce Based on Combin ation of Linguistic Variables and Fuzzy Triangular Numbers Eight ACIS International Conference on Software Engin eering, Artificial Intelligence Networking and Parallel Distributed Computing, \(pp 450-454 2007  10  X  F L i u   M an ag e m en t o f an In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  Network for a Web-Based Collaborative Engineering Design Environment Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems,\(CTS 2007\, Orlando, Florida May 21-25, 2007 11 X. F L i u   A n In ternet Ba se d In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  System for Collaborative Engineering Design Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems pp. 318-325\. Las Vegas, Nevada 2006 12 T  M A sub jec tiv e assess m e n t o f altern ativ e m ission  architectures for the human exploration of Mars at NASA using multicriteria decision making Computer and Operations Research 1147-1164, \(June 2004 13 A  N Mo n ireh  F u zzy De cisio n Ma k i n g b a se d o n  Relationship Analysis between Criteria Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society 2005 14 N  P a p a d ias HERMES Su p p o rti n g A r g u m e n tative  Discourse in Multi Agent Decision Making Proceedings of the 15th National Conference on Artifical Intelligence \(AAAI-98  pp. 827-832\dison, WI: AAAI/MIT Press,  \(1998a 15  E. B T riantaph y llo u   T h e Im p act o f  Ag g r e g atin g Ben e f i t  and Cost Criteria in Four MCDA Methods IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol 52, No 2 May 2005 16 S  H T s a u r T h e Ev alu a tio n o f airlin e se rv ice q u a lity b y  fuzzy MCDM Tourism Management 107-115, \(2002 1 T  D W a n g  Develo p in g a f u zz y  T O P S IS app r o ach  b a sed  on subjective weights and objective weights Expert Systems with Applications 8980-8985, \(2009 18 L  A  Zadeh  F u z z y Sets   Information and Control 8  338-353, \(1965  152 


                        





