  1 Tailored System Architecture for Design of S&T Missions using DoDAF2.0 Nicholas Merski DOD Space Test Program, Space and Missile System s Center, Space Development and Test Wing 3548 Aberdeen Avenue SE, Kirtland AFB, NM 87117; \(505 nicholas.merski@kirtland.af.mil  John Colombi Air Force Institute of Technology, Dept of Systems and Engi neering Management 2950 Hobson Way, Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433; \(937 john.colombi@afit.edu   Abstract 227The use of systems architecture, following a set of integrated descriptions from an architecture framework has been well codified in Depa 
rtment of Defense acquisition and systems engineering 12 However, in the Space Science and Technology \(S&T\munity, this guidance and practice receives much less atte ntion.  This paper outlines an approach to embrace the ne w focus of DoD Architecture Framework 2.0 \(DoDAF2.0\with an emphasis on data and support to acquisition decision analysis. After decomposing the Space S&T lifecycle into phases, design milestones and activities using process models, we then propose a set of lifecycle-matured models and Fit-for-Purpose views.   Our approach makes DoDAF2.0 more relevant and integrated with S&T missions, as well as facilitates reuse with existing documentation T ABLE OF C 
ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  B ACKGROUND 2  3  M ETHOD 3  4  A PPLICATION AND A NALYSIS 3  C ONCEPT R EFINEMENT  8 
 P RELIMINARY S YSTEM D ESIGN  10  F INAL S YSTEM D ESIGN  12  5  C ONCLUSIONS 14  B IOGRAPHY 15   1  I NTRODUCTION 
 Within the Department of Defense \(DoD\he use of architecture has become a n ecessary element of systems development. Recently, a new version of the DoD Architecture Framework \(DoDAF2.0 promulgated which adds new models, views and viewpoints  These m odel s  and vi ews depict various perspectives of an overall integrated design, with the purpose to better support technical and managerial decision making aligned with core DoD processes  1 U.S. Government work not protected by U.S. copyright 2 IEEEAC paper#1626 Version 1, Updated 2010:01:04 In the Space Science and Technology \(S&T\munity where guidance to use and implement architecture permits great latitude, and where pressures to field new capabilities 
is paramount, documentation and other typical systems engineering practices may recei ve less attention than they deserve.  The development and integration of an innovative space technology is a technically complex environment that requires multiple systems operating in conjunction correctly.   These systems are complicated by a variety of stakeholders with differing values on success and challenging systems integration of launch, vehicle, payload and mission control.  Additionally many S&T missions are 223non\224 standard solutions. Designs are frequently an amalgamation of previous systems, COTS or GOTS components and new engineering thus adding extra complexity from an interface st andpoint.  Paradoxically, this 
environment was the impetus for the use of architecture across the DoD for non-space sy stems almost two decades ago Given the focus on rapid development and transition, if a system architecture could be developed and used in a manner that increased visibility within the design, and was a useful tool for stakeholders and developers alike without significant additional effort, it could serve as a valuable tool throughout the development. As the goals for space technology demonstrations b ecome more ambitious, the schedule and budget expectations can be equally as challenging.  Thus, as developmental systems are acquired in many cases the focus is to minimize waste by eliminating any excess.  Given the relatively finite nature of space experimental and technology demonstration missions and 
the absence of mandates, a formal system architecting model is typically not developed or maintained With this complex development environment, any tool or process that promotes insight into systems relationships and aids the maturation of system development could be a useful asset adding decision making and adding structure for the developer and stakeholder. However, a common criticism of system architectures and DoDAF is that they are not well aligned with those principles.   Instead the common perception is that architecting models and products are 


  2 secondary end products develope d to satisfy regulations or policy. This division between system architecting goals and perceptions begs the question of how to balance the need for architecture and the informa tion it contains and the need to eliminate and avoid overhead The Department of Defense has tried to address this problem in the release of  DoDAF2.0.  The recent revisions place a strong emphasis in asking the stakeholders to define the objectives and implement an y models to service those objectives. The framework st ates, \223Architecture scoping must facilitate alignment, and support the decision-making process, and ultimately [s  i ssion outcom e s and objectives\224 [1 Using the revised guidance from DoDAF2.0, this paper will offer a potential implementation of architectural models that is aligned with purpose, objectives, and roles in the design of space science and tec hnology \(S&T\s 2  B ACKGROUND  Current State of DoD Architecting The use of system architectur es within the DoD, using a standard framework, is a well established practice. The application of architecting has been expanded well beyond its inception in the 1990\222s within the Command, Control Communications, Computers, Surveillance and Intelligence Architecture Framework \(C4ISRAF\The guidance initially provided within the current DoDD 5000.02 directive  and refi ned i n joi n t and com ponent i n st ruct i ons  has di ct at ed t h e use of archi t ect ural  product s  throughout the defense enterprise Although guidance to develop system architectures in conjunction with defense acqui sitions is well understood the roles, purpose and processes for creating, maturing and using a architecture throughout a given development are still being developed and refined at all levels within the DoD.  As organizations have attempted to develop system architectures that are aligne d with policies, significant obstacles have been encountered in implementing the guidance using the DoDAF construct.  Some of these shortcomings include the following Applicability across the spectrum of DoD Acquisition   states in their evaluation of DoDAF to ANSI/IEEE 1471 conformance, organizations ultimately using the framework may have different objectives for an architecture than the audien ce that it was originally developed to assist. They write, \223Although developed for acquisition supervisors concerned with interoperability, the DoDAF in practice is primarily used to produce architecture descriptions during the early-stages of system development\224 5 is o b s erv atio n illu strates th at Do DAF is n o t  a 223o n e size fits all\224 tool.  Organizations that implement DoDAF need to spend time tailoring the framework to ensure that it provides useful information to support decision making Alignment with existing engineering processes At a US Army sponsored Workshop in Ma  an observation was offered that accurately summarizes the poor alignment with architectures and the systems engineering process.  Bergey and others documented that Members observed that there are a lot of issues with respect to the use of th e DoDAF for architecture development in any genre. The good news is that architecture work is being done. In many cases \(but certainly not in all\rogram s are performing architecture tasks as part of their normal systems engineering efforts, but they are not using the DoDAF for architecture development Rather, it seems a common practice is to develop DoDAF views to meet DoD requirements after the initial architecture work has been largely complete  Instead of a design tool, DoDAF architectures are often used as a way to document the system design Lack of Processes for Maturing Architectures Research that examined the usability of the DoDAF framework cites the lack of guidance in how to mature DoDAF products as the central reason for misalignment with decision making processes Richards et al state, "Most fundamentally, weaknesses in the DoDAF have been identified as it undergoes transition from a static descriptive tool to a tool th at attempts to characterize dynamic system properties" [7 u i d an ce o r train i n g  has been provided on how to translate operational requirements into system design.  We have seen lack of appreciation in the requirements communities \(generally operators\trade space analysis. As originally written, the early versions of DoDAF did not have a foundational development process to take advantage of its interconnected views These issues highlight some of the obstacles that systems developers are currently encountering in the system architecting effort and are majo r factors that are inhibiting the a more holistic use of the DoDAF framework during system design and development If the issues are examined in the context of each other an interesting conclusion may be drawn that the second two issues are functions of the first.  In other words, becau se the architecting process as implemented historically is not necessarily well suited for many areas \(i.e. development it has not been embraced and aligned with development.  Since this has not occurred by and large effort and processes have not been adopted to mature these models effectively.   Given this thought process, relevance and utility become the most important factors consider when discussing how the architecting process should be tailored DoDAF Version 2.0  


  3 The developers of DoDAF appear to have recognized these shortcomings and attempted to address them in Version 2.0 This version places much greater emphasis on the data contained within the architecture as opposed to the specific products to display the data.  Overall, the framework shows an expansion of standard views, shown in Figure 1. The following list summarizes key differences 225  Data-centric approach focu sing on the collection, storage and maintenance of data needed for efficient and effective decisions 225 Distinction between Enterprise and Solution architectures 225 The three major views described in all previous versions e.g., Operational, Systems and Technical, and System have been extended with viewpoints that relate to stakeholders or DoD processes 225 DoDAF does not prescribe particular models \(never did and introduces the concept of new Fit-for-Purpose views  The remainder of this paper will propose a concept that will use DoDAF2.0 models  and views to specifically address the needs of the sp ace S&T community 3  M ETHOD  If architecture is to support decision making, one must determine which decision makers. Due to lack of higher headquarters reporting requirements, it was decided that the appropriate owners would be the program executives and/or milestone decision authorities.   We measure success of this approach by architectures ability to help effect the outcome of the design in terms of completeness, timeliness and capability   Figure 1. Architecture Viewpoints in DoDAF2.0 [1 Process diagrams were first developed for the various phases of the S&T development to help provide context for architecting.  Interviews were conducted where the process diagrams were used to confirm and extract purpose, scope and data for space S&T architecture.  After interviews were completed, information was captured identifying the lessons or suggestions where architecture could help support development, the data that would be relevant and the notions of how it may be represented using either a 223heritage\224 DoDAF view or a lo cal artifact that is commonly used within spacecraft acquisition Using the data obtained, and the process diagrams the information was then organized into a notional structure of architectural models.  This structure examines the early phases of the design process and briefly highlights the purpose for the model, highlights changes in function and maturity across the phases and identifies existing product\(s that may contain this information as well as references to DoDAF views. Specific explana tion of the column headings in the framework are provided in Table 1  4  A PPLICATION AND A NALYSIS   DoDAF version 2.0 places a renewed emphasis on stakeholders identifying the role and purpose architecture should play within a system or enterprise.  This is supported by broader DoD systems engineering reviews and recommendations which challenge users to tailor the content and rigor of the SE effort to align with their needs Table 1. S&T Space Mission Framework Descriptors M ission Phase Identifies the mission phase for the architecture models Relevant Information Identifies information within the view that would be useful to the S&T stakeholder, based on SME interviews Purpose Function Statements describing the information and potential relevance to the S&T development Maturity Lists document maturity at a given phase in the development Initial: document released by responsible party, document should not be considered vetted and any decisions based on documentation should be validated with the author for accuracy Final: document has been reviewed and revisions have been coordinated, reader should assume information to be accurate and complete Living: document regularly updated and posted, periodicity of updates should be understood, questions regarding the currency of the document should be coordinated with owner Product\(s Identifies existing program document that contains the relevant architecture information DODAF Model Reference Documents DoDAF reference view designation Notes Any other relevant information that is required  In order to develop specific ways a tailored architecture could support S&T space development, purpose and roles for architecture in this envir onment needed to be addressed first.   As this question was posed to various individuals two main themes emerged from the responses. Most 


  4 individuals identified the use of system architecture as tool to preserve information for future modification \226 in effect, a method for configuration control and documentation.  A smaller subset identified the possibility of using system architecture as a construct for gathering, storing and maturing information to assist a spacecraft development This view aligns more with architecture as early and maturing design \226 the system blueprints A summary of objectives fo r a Space S&T architecture based on the responses is documented below 225 Preserve critical system development information.  S&T missions must ensure that the \223as-built\224 system information issues encountered and lessons learned are preserved to help enable subsequent efforts that are derived from the concepts that are demonstrated 225 Provide a communication tool to coordinate and integrate critical programmatic and technical information among the various system stakeholders throughout the development process 225 Implement a construct for identifying how information from various program elements should be matured over time to result in a system that meets its mission objectives  All individuals surveyed felt that boundaries should follow functional lines, but also felt that there was significant information about other systems that needed to be preserved to have the appropriate amount of context. The Venn diagram in Figure 2 illustrate s the typical S&T boundaries with the research in this paper on the space vehicle However, the other components of the system cannot be ignored especially in the early stages of design where mission requirements are developed and functional responsibilities are allocated to various components One of the other insights from system developers was the need to synergize an y architecture with the work that was being conducted in support of the design.  Architecture needed to keep pace with the maturation of the development g   As a result, the goals associated with this implementation system architecture were to use products that are commonly created throughout the system acquisition process, and make them more effective by highlighting their role in the development with the use of the reference model Throughout process of cross referencing program documentation with DoDAF model descriptions it also became clear that in several cases existing documentation could satisfy more than one view within the DoDAF construct.  This can be a very effective way of keeping the architecture a manageable size However, attention needs to be paid during the document development process to ensure that expectations for the information are properly framed to ensure the desired outcomes are achieved.  If a given product is going to include or be labeled as a \223DoDAF model\224, the requirements for what data should be contained within the model still must be adhered to.  The goal of this approach is not intended to re-define existing models.   It is meant to offer streamlined methods for model development and maintenance of relevant views.  This can be accomplished by ensuring the various DoDAF model data definitions and requirements in Volume II are referenced and checked during the document development and editing  Throughout the development of architecture significant attention was paid to what information was required to achieve the purpose outlined above.  As a result, several 223Fit For Purpose or FFP\224 views were created to help identify program and system information that DoDAF construct did not expressly identify.  This tailoring process is strongly encouraged by the new guidance to help increase the relevance of the architectur e to the stakeholders based on their input The following sub-sections will chronologically step through the development process and discuss how a tailored system architecture may assist the invested parties in more effectively achieving all desired outcomes Pre-Systems Acquisition At the onset of an S&T mission many decisions will have a profound outcome on the acquisiti on, and need to be made quite early in the lifecycle.  In this phase many decisions are made quickly and may be communicated in an \223ad hoc\224 fashion not allowing parties who subsequently join the development to appreciate the impetus.  This underscores the criticality for program tools that help develop understanding regarding the system, its associated risks, and technical challenges.   As can be seen in the process diagram \(Figure 3\he decision to pursue a mission is made, contractual and system development processes immediately follow.  If these decisions and processes are not well defined and documented they will delay subsequent requirements analysis and development activities  Space Vehicle Launch Vehicle Payload  Ground Segment Figure 2. System Architecture Boundary Diagram 


  5 At this point in the mission ther e are several areas that have been identified where system architecture products and processes could help mature expectations for different elements of the program appropriately before a \223mission acceptance\224 decision is made.  Table 2 lists relevant architecture information that was identified throughout this research and highlights rationale for the product as well as maturity.  The following section examines the purpose for the various views and attempts to illustrate how their presence could provide valuable technical and programmatic insight to support decision making Consolidated Risk Plan FFP-1A\ and List \(FFP-1B 227 The risk plan outlines the strategy for risk management scoring and defines a risk posture for the program.  The list provides an integrated view of all the risks within the system in order to effectively identify, manage and mitigate risks effectively.  Many S T missions are willing to accept more program risks due to the finite nature of the mission For example many S&T missions accept single string designs which immediately set a certain risk posture for the program.   By defining major program risks early it helps to set a frame of reference fo r acceptable risk within the program throughout the program and makes it easier to understand what level of risks must be mitigated during the design phase  or conversely can be accepted Mission Plan \(AV-1, OV-1, OV-4, StdV-1 227  During the pre-acquisition phase, a Mission Plan is a common umbrella document that summarizes the approach for the mission, the organizati ons that will be involved and the outcomes that are desired.  This document can take various forms and contain di ffering information depending on the developing organization.  While polling individuals regarding this mission phase th e areas discussed below were highlighted as items that needed to be documented at the onset of a mission Mission Life. In many cases expectations for mission life are not clearly defined or adhered to for S&T missions Following a successful S&T demonstration, perceptions may exist to use the residua l space capability operationally Developers need to clearly st ate what type of system is desired and not force artificial expectations for design robustness that exceed the actual need Mission Expectations, Outcomes & Measures of Effectiveness. S&T missions do not uniformly have a process for measuring the success of a technology on-orbit The mission plan must identify how success will be managed to ensure that it appropriately flows into the design.  In many cases mission requirements such as higher than planned payload duty cycles or 100% data collection at the ground emerge in later phases.  If these are not appropriately defined before mission segment requirements documentation is formulated than the appropriate capability may not exist Standards. Common problems encountered within S&T developments are how certain standards should be applied to achieve the desired outcomes.  In many cases the programmatic effects are not appropriately considered when a decision of how to apply a standard is made. For example decisions regarding piece part procurement standards can drive component piece part procurement cost by as much as six times  as well as have significant effects on lead time for procurement based on availability and requirements [8  These decisions need to be closely evaluated and framed with desired mission outcomes and risks tolerances for a project to strike a successful balance.  This needs to be done prior to mission acceptance to avoid costly mis-conceptions and delays during the requirements decomposition and design phases Furthermore many decisions at this point can become a function of prior precedent and that may or may not be appropriate for the outcomes that are desired for the mission at hand.  Programs may unnecessarily levy over restrictive cleanliness requirements that will result in significant extra time being spent, handling and cleaning Waiver Authority. It is equally as important to define processes for requesting waiver s to any approved standards by understanding the regulatory processes that surround them and identifying waiver authorities. In many cases waiver authorities do not reside within the program office i.e Form 813 Environmental Assessments some standards and regulations are unable to be waived so compliance must be achieved in the mission design Naturally, waivers occurring after established baselines would require a management procedure to control and document the new baseline Integrated Milestone Schedule \(PV-2 227  Prior to making the decision to embark in on a mission, it is also critical to define the elements of a program that will challenge or constrain the trad e space in terms of schedule Some elements of the mission are bound to constraint the program, such as long lead items and those on the critical path.  Common understanding of how that will affect the development needs to be done at the earliest stages of the program Some components in common small satellite designs routinely drive the ability to begin system integration.  The procurement of a SGLS transponder is a perfect example Acquisition time for a transponder is typically on the order of 16 months.  This is primarily due to the fact that specific crystals must be grown that correspond to an approved radio frequency.  The process to obtain approval for a specific frequency is also a lengthy process which will drive schedule risk.  Therefore in order to achieve system 


  6 development timelines of 24- 36 months, critical decisions regarding parts procurement will have to occur in advance of design reviews Syst em Development Begins Elapsed Time ~ 3 \226 12 months  Figure 3. Pre-Systems Acquisition Process Diagram Table 2. Preliminary Design System Architecture Information Mission Phase Relevant Architecture Information Purpose Function Maturity Product\(s DODAF Model Ref er ence Pre - system Acquisition Int egrat ed Ri sk Li st Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team Li v i n g Document Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Int egrat ed Ri sk Pl an Documentation outlining the program s risk posture and threshold s for reporting and mitigating risk Initial Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Pl a n FFP1B Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Integrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Critical System Requirements Capabilities Constraints Outcomes Identify required program outcomes measures of effectiveness How residual capability may be used if deemed successful Communicate aspects of the mission that must be adhered to and cannot be traded within the project Initial Delivery Mission Plan AV-1 Organizational Roles Boundaries Establish lines of authority Highlight system boundaries that will require interface control documentation to be developed Delegate project roles and responsib ilities Initial Delivery Mission Plan OV1 OV4 Design Standards and Life Requirements List of regulatory standards that program is required to comply with Understanding of nominal SC design life and risk classification \(i.e Cl ass  A B C    List of any international treaties that may affect program decisions Li st of appl i cabl e t e chni cal st andards Initial Delivery Mission Plan STDV-1 Critical Program  Documentation Identify required documentation information models from various system developers Highlights the how many iterations are planned throughout the document lifecycle Identifies delivery dates for all information among stakeholders Li v i n g Document Pr o gr am  Documentation Mat urity Matrix FFP2 Open System Trades Description organized by subsystem of open design trades and de ci si ons t hat ne e d t o be compl e t e d Each trade should have an owner and associated due dates that are aligned with program constraints Li v i n g Document Trade  De ci si o n tracking matrix FFP5 


  7 Program CDRL List \(FFP-2 227  A common understanding of what program documentation will be delivered and how it matures is a common request when discussing development lessons learned.  As different program elements interface w ith each other the ability to understand what documents will be delivered and how they will mature through the course of the development is a proactive way to enhance dialogue surrounding interfaces and on what time tables design trades must occur.  This product can also be used to re-enforce expectations with respect to information contained within the document and develop a common understanding among invested parties In many cases, expectations for documentation vary significantly, and costly time can be spent in review and revision because a document did not meet its intended purpose.  Among the space S&T enterprise there are drastically different ways of documenting system design and programmatic information. The use of this view can help baseline expectations and set the focus for the initial CDRL releases.  This view can help an individual understand where information resides, as well as how it will mature through the course of a development.  This product should be have the widest distribution throughout the program so all invested parties understand the plan for system documentation evolution Mission Expectations, Outcomes & Measures of Effectiveness. S&T missions do not uniformly have a process for measuring the success of a technology on-orbit The mission plan must identify how success will be managed to ensure that it appropriately flows into the design.  In many cases mission requirements such as higher than planned payload duty cycles 100% data collection at the ground emerge in later phases.  If these are not appropriately defined before mission segment requirements documentation is formulated than the appropriate capability may not exist Standards. Common problems encountered within S&T developments are how certain standards should be applied to achieve the desired outcomes.  In many cases the programmatic effects are not appropriately considered when a decision of how to apply a standard is made. For example decisions regarding piece part procurement standards can drive component piece part procurement cost by as much as six times  as well as have significant effects on lead time for procurement based on availability and requirements [8  These decisions need to be closely evaluated and framed with desired mission outcomes and risks tolerances for a project to strike a successful balance.  This needs to be done prior to mission acceptance to avoid costly mis-conceptions and delays during the requirements decomposition and design phases Furthermore many decisions at this point can become a function of prior precedent and that may or may not be appropriate for the outcomes that are desired for the mission at hand.  Programs may unnecessarily levy over restrictive cleanliness requirements that will result in significant extra time being spent, handling and cleaning Waiver Authority. It is equally as important to define processes for requesting waivers to the approved standards understanding the regulatory processes that surround them and identifying waiver authorities for the applicable standard if they can in fact be waived. In many cases waiver authorities do not reside within the program office \(i.e Form 813 Environmental Assessments\some standards and regulations are unable to be waived so compliance must be achieved in the mission design Integrated Milestone Schedule \(PV-2 227  Prior to making the decision to embark in on a mission it is also critical to define the el ements of a program that are presently understand  will challenge or constrain the trade space in terms of schedule.  Some elements of the mission are bound to constraint the program.  Common understanding of how that will affect the development needs to be done at the earliest stages of the program Some components in common small satellite designs routinely drive the ability to begin system integration.  The procurement of a SGLS transponder is a perfect example Acquisition time for a transponder is typically on the order of 16 months.  This is due to the fact that specific crystal oscillators must be grown which takes several months create a wave form that corresponds to an approved radio frequency.  The process to obtain approval for a specific frequency is also a lengthy process which will drive schedule risk.  Therefore in order to achieve system development timelines of 24- 36 months, critical decisions regarding parts procurement will have to occur in advance of design reviews Program CDRL List \(FFP-2 227  A common understanding of what program documentation will be delivered and how it matures is common request when discussing development lessons learned.  As different program elements interface w ith each other the ability to understand what documents will be delivered and how they will mature through the course of the development is a proactive way to enhance dialogue surrounding interfaces and on what time tables design trades must occur.  This product can also be used to re-enforce expectations with respect to information contained within the document and develop a common understanding among invested parties 


  8 In many cases, expectations for documentation vary significantly, and costly time can be spent in review and revision because a document did not meet its intended purpose.  The use of this view can help baseline expectations and set the focus for the initial document.  This view is not intended to repl ace detailed requirements for a document.  However, among the space enterprise there are drastically different ways of documenting system information. This view can help an individual understand where information resides, as well as how it will mature through the course of a development.  This product should be have the widest distribution throughout the program so all invested parties understand the plan for documentation evolution Open System Trades \(FFP-3 227  From the onset of concept development in the various system areas trades emerge as the vision for the mission is constructed.  These trades will have widely different time horizons for decision making.  It is important within a development to ensure that all open trades are known and when closure must be achieved is well understood.  This can help avoid hasty time based decision making that isn\222t well coordinated or documented.  In many cases subsystem engineers do not fully consider the ramifications of how design changes within their system will affect other systems. An Open System Trade list and description will help mitigate issues during system integration and testing Secondary benefits of this view include ensuring consensus by all required parties, providing useful insight leading to major program reviews, and supporting decisions regarding the amount of outstanding work An example of how this product can be useful throughout the design phase of the acquisition occurred during the development of a flight softwa re system.  In this case the flight software engineering team made the decision to not implement the concurrent ability to range and receive telemetry without consulting the larger systems engineering ground operations and telecom engineering teams.  This implementation has serious implications for operations especially in an early orbit anomalous situation post launch where the ability to see telemetry and range on the vehicle would be highly desirable.  Given the programs significant time constraints, there was no ability to go back and redesign this capability once the disconnect was uncovered Therefore the team will have to work with this architecture and develop procedures to address this in the event of an anomaly.  A product which tracked trades like this and forced concurrence before an implementation was approved would have been useful for the agency responsible for the acquisition Concept Refinement Concept refinement and requirements development is often a challenging phase of any system development.  In a very short period of time the program must adequately define their requirements for the system and the developer is expected to understand, refine, decompose, and allocate all of the requirements for a given system.  Within the space S&T realm, like many advanced technology efforts, this is often done with high levels design uncertainty among system elements.  Figure 4 documents this phase Sound requirements development and refinement is a cornerstone of a development\222s success.  However, in many instances this phase of the mission has been plagued by poor documentation and systems engineering.  This underscores the need for information that can help the system developer and/or the program decision authority with ways to effectively st ructure and document decisions throughout this phase There are two distinct efforts within this phase.  The first is the acquiring agency articulating what is required of the system under development.  This effort should heavily leverage and refine many of the architecture views outlined in the previous phase in particular the Mission Plan.  As can be seen in Table 3, effort ear ly in this phase is geared towards ensuring that the mission needs, outcomes and standards are completely articulated.  This ultimately results in the delivery of a Space Vehicle Technical Requirements Document to the system developer A strong emphasis throughout the beginning of this phase should be to solicit feedback from external agencies. In many instances this coordination can allow for more current requirements or standards to be applied and included prior to delivery to the developer thus avoiding confusion and iteration later in the design review process.  Once this information is coordinated, it should culminate in the delivery of a comprehensive technical requirements document being delivered to the developer in order to convey system requirements in fashion that allow for the agency to fully evaluate the merits of a design Following the acceptance of a system requirements document, it is the responsibility of the developer to begin the process of reviewing, refine, decomposing and allocating the requirements to the various subsystems.   This is an effort intensive process given the complex interfaces between various systems. For this reason, a common understanding of what constitute s a complete requirements baseline is a useful benchmark for both the system owner and the developer by creating an set of expectations to evaluate the completion of this phase Mission Plan \(AV-1, OV-1, OV-4, STDV-1 227  This update should be focused on clarifying any changes or omissions to the critical system requirements, outcomes and standards.  The revision of this document should be well circulated with external agen cies to ensure that properly regulatory guidance and best practices are implemented. In 


  9 many cases revisions to guidance and policy do not marry well with acquisition timelines  Figure 4. Concept Development Process Diagram Table 3. Concept Development Process Information Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Information Purpose Function Maturity Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce  Concept Refinement Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team Li v i n g Document Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Critical System Requirements Capabilities Constraints Outcomes Identify required program outcomes measures of effectiveness How residual capability may be used if deemed successful Communicate aspects of the mission that must be adhered to and cannot be traded within the project Final Delivery Mission Plan AV-1 Organizational Roles Boundaries Establish lines of authority Highlight system boundaries that will require interface control documentation to be developed Delegate project roles and responsibilities Final Delivery Mission Plan OV1 OV4 Required Standards,  Design Life Requirements List of regulatory standards that program is required to comply with Includes Preliminary LV Environments and Loads Understanding of nominal SC design life and risk classification \(i.e Cl a ss  A  B C    List of any international treaties that may affect program decsions List of applicable technical standards Final Delivery Mission Plan STDV-1 Requirements Functionally allocated and derived for each subsystem and component System Developers repsonse to the Technical Requirements Document  Identifies how requirements will be allcoated among various systems Highlights functional responsibility for each subsystem Provides critical data regarding system boundaries and interfaces Final Delivery SV Requirments Specification FFP4 SV Technical Requirements Documentation Complete list of performance requirements for the Space System Delivered by the government to the contractor agency responsible for space vehicle design, development and integration Initial Del i ver y SV Technical Requirements Document FFP3 Open System Trades Description organized by subsystem of open design trades and decisions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and associated due dates that are aligned with program constraints Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5  


  10  SV Technical Requireme nts Document \(FFP-3 227 Following the validation of critical outcomes and standards the acquiring agency should release a comprehensive systems requirements document that elaborates on the desired outcomes for the system by detailing significant system and subsystem requirements.  Some may suggest that this element is not required and it should be the responsibility of the developer to derive from the required capabilities and outcomes. However, in most cases, the agency has expectations for design development and test.  If the developer is expected to derive system or test requirements without the guidance that a comprehensive requirements document would provide there is likely to be serious discrepancies in the approaches taken with respect to requirements and standards A good example of this can be seen in the development practices for the Space Test Program.  The Space Test Program will commonly take risks in accepting a single string spacecraft design due to mass and volume constraints associated with their space lif t opportunities. However, in order to mitigate that risk, rigorous test requirements which may not be typically required for an S&T such as full MILSTD 1540-E are commonly levied to screen for workmanship issues and infant mortality.  Without these detailed specifications being documented in a technical requirements document to the developer it is unlikely that they would adopt the preferred approach.  This would result in extra time and cost expended in order to come to a consensus Space Vehicle System Specification \(FFP-4 227  This view represents the complete set of requirements associated with the system and the methods that will be used to demonstrate this requirement.  The requirements specification should demonstrate how requirements are organized at the system, sub-system and component levels Recommendations for how to construct this view are well documented in some Data Item Descriptions \(DID\s proposed formatting does allo w for tailoring and does not have specific requirements associated with how the document is prepared or managed.  However, careful consideration should be paid to the approach that is taken Several tools exist that make use of databases to allow the user and the developer to trace requirements compliance from the component to the syst em level.  This capability significantly enhances the ability to work with the information and assess changes as they are encountered throughout the design process.  This is important in the S&T environment because it allows the individuals associated with design trades to more effectively understand the impacts of change throughout the development process These lessons can be applie d into final interface control documentation and used to assess overall suitability entering the review.  If there are issues encountered during these activities, mitigations should be developed prior to a final design review in order to ensure that developers can successfully transition from design to integration at completion of the review.  These steps will help all parties validate the design and give them the requisite data to make informed decisions when planning for later phases of the mission  Preliminary System Design  The name for this phase can be somewhat of a misnomer Even though the first iterations of the design process is made, there are many elements which need to be completely solidified at this point in the design process.  Additionally this tends to be the point in the project where detailed interface boundaries and specifica tions must be developed among sub-systems and systems As can be seen in Figure 5, much of the effort expended throughout this phase is dedicated to resolving various design decisions and trades.  Tools that assist both the program developer and procuring agency add structure and organization to this time are particularly important.  Many of the systems architecture products that were mentioned previously \(i.e. schedule and CDRL list\in the chapter play a significant role in aiding this process The preliminary design phase is unique because although the review marks the closure of the phase, some milestones that are of equal or greater importance must occur before this happens.  As individual subsystem and system designs emerge and component trades for the various systems are developed, it becomes apparent that orders must be placed before the any design review occurs. This is to have longlead products delivered by the close of the design phase This can be very difficult b ecause, usually, the components that fall into this category are some of the most important system elements \(avionics flight computers and transceivers additional challenge for the systems engineering team to ensure the requirements and interfaces for the component and the systems are properly vetted.   This is where the program can heavily leverage system architecting products.   Table 4 lists the relevant architectural information for this phase System Subsystem Design Specific ations \(DIV-3, SV-5, OV6A, SV-10B 227  At the culmination of this phase the initial design for each subsystem and the system as a whole should be well understood.  Several Aerospace reference documents detail all of the pertinent design elements for the various subsystems.  However, what is often not seen are common views for how the information should be represented among the various subsystems ensuring that the approach the various developers have for conveying information translates well from subsystem to subsystem.  This is not to say that each presentation needs to be structured identically 


  11 Discussions with various engineers and program managers identified what these \223common views\224 \(Table 5\ay be  Figure 5. Preliminary System Design Process Diagram Table 4. Preliminary System Design Architecture M ission Phase Relevant Ar chit ect ure Infor mat ion Pur pose Funct ion M at urit y Product s DODAF Model Re f e r e nce  Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that will be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan should identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document Minimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be complete Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Syst em Subsyst em Desi gn Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Tr ad e   Deci si on tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7  


  12 Table 5. Recommended Design Review Common Views Design Review Information Purpose Physical Functional View  This view would illustrate all of the components within the system and highlight their functional responsibility within the system as a whole.  If the system was software intensive, component references may be less important than identifying the software tasks and their relationship within the system   This view\(s\the different operating states or modes of the system Data Transfer View Demonstrate how data moves throughout the subsystem/system in both hardware and software. Illustrate the various ways that format is altered in the process Reliability Views Analysis\222 showing sub-system reliability and the supporting data/methods implemented Subsystem and component flight heritage pedigree Identify any limited life items within the system to properly identify constraints and risks associated with the development Technical Budgets Performance View Identify the system requirements and the expected design performance, demonstrate that design has sufficient margin per industry standards \(AIAA\given level of maturity Define the level of analysis/ simulation required to demonstrate the suitability of systems  At first glance it can be seen that the views suggested by various SMEs closely resemble the various DoDAF2.0 viewpoints.  This suggests that the recommended views address the different aspects of design from a fairly complete set of perspectives  Interface control documents al so need to be reviewed carefully in order to ensure that the proper information is included within the document.  In several instances ambiguous references to existing standards have resulted in compatibility problems.  Specifically, when selecting command and telemetry data protocols. particular attention needs to be paid to ensure the view completely demonstrates the planned implementation.  In the recent past, references to standards such as CCSDS have given system developers the false security that a format is well understood.  Away to eliminate such ambiguities is to include sample data references in the views that can be reviewed and decomposed by the receiving agency to ensure that a consensus is reached  Operational Environments \(FFP-7 227   A critical element of component and system design is finalizing the environmental conditions that the space vehicle will experience throughout launch and upon separation.  This can be complicated in the S&T environment, because there ar e instances where acquisition begins without a complete understanding of what launch vehicle environments will be experienced.  Regardless whether or not this is known, a best effort needs to be made to indentify an enveloping environment for testing as early as possible.  In many instan ces insufficient testing can put undue risk to testing at the sp ace vehicle and drive cost later in the program.  Also, incorrect assumptions regarding notching can lead to potential susceptibilities.  The acquiring agency should strive to define environment at the launch vehicle interface before any requirements are flown for component level testing.  This will pay large dividends later in the program by avoiding very extensive and costly tests and analysis later in the program.  If there is some level of uncertainty that cannot be resolved prior to component level procurement, the acquiri ng agency must either accept the risk or plan for significant cost growth later in the program.  Documentation that details the tests environments for each component and the test methods used for verification will help in baselining expectations.  A matrix that identifies verification me thods will help ensure that there is consensus is an e ffective method for accomplishing this  A satellite failure demonstrates an example of what can occur if environments aren\222t well understood.  In this case decisions were made regarding notching launch vehicle environments at low frequencies, serendipitously in the same range a launch vehicle mode existed. Furthermore, the telemetry received from the la unch vehicle indicated that the rocket exceeded its maximu m predicted environment in the same range.   In this case, when the space vehicle was not able to be contacted on orbit a potential cause for failure was determined to be incorrect notching strategies during vibration testing.   Although root cause cannot be positively confirmed, data that shows what environments the system elements should be tested will allow all agencies to understand the risk that is be ing accepted early and develop mitigation strategies if they are required later in the program Final System Design At this point in the development a focused effort needs to be made early in the phase to finalize interfaces and resolve any lingering trades.  As pre liminary designs are accepted, a review of each subsystem needs to be completed before the remaining procurement decisions are finalized and production planning can begin. Figure 6 depicts the detailed systems design process Reviews should be thorough, include appropriate stakeholders and mission assurance bodies to ensure decisions are made in an informed fashion prior to proceeding into a review.  In terms of systems architecting very little new information is recommended at this phase Instead, the architecture models should act as management 


  13  Elapsed Time ~ 4 \226 8 mont hs Figure 6. Detailed System Design Process Diagram Table 6. Detailed System Design Architecture  M ission Phase Relevant Archit ect ure Infor mat ion Purpose Funct ion M at urit y Pr oduct s DODAF Model Re f e r e nce  De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that will be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery En v i r o n m e n t a l  Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan should iden tify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Co n t r o l  Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Int egr at i on Prodcut i on Pl an List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates Li st shoul d i ncl ude al l pi e ce par t s mi sce l l ane ous mat  l s conne ct or s and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Integrated Production Tr ack i n g To o l FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Do cume nt  Trade  Deci si on tracking matrix FFP5 


  14 tools to ensure the design is has properly matured, open issues are resolved and form al interface agreements have been driven to closure Table 6 shows the system architecture framework and maturity that is suggested for this phase In order to do this in an effective manner designs and models need to be finalized and circulated with stakeholders ahead of the review.  Al so, for critical interfaces simulations or test with engineering models should be considered to validate a design.  This is especially important when considering interfaces among systems that are near the program critical path. The program CDRL lists and open system trade data models will help assess if this has been completed in a timely manner In many cases for S&T missions, the desire to transition from design to integration rapidly is paramount at this point in the mission.  If this is desired, the element of production planning needs to also be considered at this juncture in the design.  In this case, a detailed model that shows how all developmental items will procured, prepared and tested to support planned integration is critical is assessing the validity of the approach for ensuing phases.  This plan model should show how all elements both flight and nonflight support the baseline schedule or how they are deficient in order to highlight risk areas to mitigate Integrated Production Tracking Tool \(FFP-6 227  There have been many instan ces in the development of systems where a small and relatively inexpensive system element causes a significant schedule delay due to unavailability or oversight in th e product planning effort.  In most instances these issues could have been avoided if comprehensive tools are used to identify all required parts including ground support equipment\and track their availability versus need date for system integration.  This information will be essential in being able to assess the readiness of a group to transiti on from design to integration 5  C ONCLUSIONS  Architecture needs to be pur pose driven.  The value of system architecture is not plainly apparent to many and the existence of regulatory guidance will not force architecting to be well aligned with engineering.   Unless architecting activities for a given system are given a clear purpose, it may be difficult for people to identify how they serve a purpose and immediately are useful and applicable DoDAF V2.0 has come a long way in helping to change the perception of architecture by being data-centric and attempting to re-align system architectures to support the decision making processes within a development.  Given the novelty of version 2.0 que stions of supportability and fusion are still largely left unanswered Tailoring systems architectures to meet the need of a specific development is equally important. Architecting emerged as a concept that was essential for large interoperable systems that required long term sustainment and scalability.   In the sp ace S&T arena where the long term supportability and interoperability aren\222t major concerns,  an architecture needs to be tailored to address the issues that are relevant to th e systems such as  managing the complexity and parallel nature of the development providing tools and views to help a developer see that the system or group of systems mature appropriately.   The flexibility built into DoDAF2.0 with composite and \223Fit For Purpose\224 views were used ex tensively in this effort A systems architecture adopted for this S&T environment needs to be kept simple.  Given the finite nature of the missions in a schedule constrained situation, documentation and excess deliverables are always one of the first cost elements to be cut.   Howeve r, if the architecture artifacts are well aligned with existing program documentation, then benefits emerge.  There is little to no benefit in developing architecture simply to document the design which is contained in other documentation, which may be in a variety of formats and often more detailed.  Keeping it simple will allow the architecture to mature more easily with other design efforts Finally, accessibility of the information is extremely important regardless of the tools or methods employed Providing commonly accessible ar eas where a stakeholder knows how to access the information will bolster the alignment of engineering and architecting.  Both the DOD and industry have tools that are available to assist this, and careful review of several options should be completed ensure that  they meet give n needs prior to selection Significance of Research One of the most important aspects of a space science and technology demonstration is timeliness.  If systems cannot be developed and demonstrated in a timely fashion their applicability is diminished significantly.  While schedule performance is very important there is a tenuous balance between the approach im plemented to accelerate a development and the level of technical rigor required.  If a methods like system architecting can facilitate timeliness by helping to reinforce decision making processes and coordinate appropriate technical review this could add significant utility to the developer and deserves consideration as a method for bolstering systems engineering processes Future Research and Application This effort was primarily focused on understanding DoDAF Version 2.0 applicability and challenges to space system development. , and how strategic changes in 2.0 address some of those issues and offering a example of how it could 


  15 be implemented for a given application \(developmental space systems eful to augment this effort some in different areas Extending the application of this architecture beyond the space domain to other system ty pes would provide valuable insight.  One could begin to see practical \223shared\224 elements beyond DoDAF suggested views. This architecture could also be expanded further in the space development process to include integration  and test and operations and maintenance. Additionally, the adoption and trial of an architecting effort for a deve lopmental space system would provide important feedback on the applicability of the suggested implementation System architecting\222s real value lies in its ability to optimize the manner that information is exchanged among system elements in order facilitate development of the complete system.  The method that is used to achieve this is going to be drastically different based on the actual system, its goals its stakeholders, schedule, funding and many other factors In order to make system architecture relevant and useful it needs be tailored.   Additionally, tailoring needs to extend beyond simply what is included in the model to how and when the information is gathered and must be well aligned with organizational or industry wide practices for development REFERENCES   Depart m e nt of Defe nse. DoD Architecture Framework \(DoDAF\on 2.0, Volume I: Definitions and Guidelines. Washington, DC : DoD, May 2009  227. DoDD 5000.02 The Defense Acquisition System, Washington, DC : DoD,  Dec 2008   C h ai rm an Joi n t C h i e fs of St aff. C J SC I 3170.01F Joint Capability Integration and Development System JCIDS\ay 2009   227 C J C S I 6212.01D, Net work R eady Kep Performance Parameter \(NR-KPP\Dec 2008.oint Capability Integration and Development System \(JCIDS Washington, DC : DoD,  May 2009 5 Maier, Mark W Em ery, Dav i d an d Hilliard  Richard.   ANSI/IEEE 1471 a nd Systems Engineering Systems Engineering  3, Vol 7, 2004  B e rgey John, et al U.S. Arm y W o rkshop on Expl ori ng Enterprise, System of Syst ems, System, and Software Architectures. Washington DC : Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering Institute, 2009 7 Rich ard s  Matth ew G., et al. Man ag i n g Co m p lex ity with  the Department of Defens e Architecture Framework Development of a Dynamic Sy stem Architecture Model Cambridge: Massachusetts Institute of Technology Working Paper Series Vol. 9, 2007  Plante, Jeannette and Sam p son, Michael J. Cost Im pacts of Upgrading Electronic Part s for Use in NASA Spaceflight Systems.  NASA Report, 2002 B IOGRAPHY   Nicholas Merski is currently the Program Manager for the STPSIV program at the Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB. His previous experience focused on small satellite command and control systems in project management, systems engineering and operations roles. He has a B.S. in Industrial Engineering from University of Pittsburgh and is completing an M.S. in Systems Engineering from the Air Force Institute of Technology  John Colombi is an Assistant Professor of Systems Engineering and serves as academic advisor for Distance Learning students at the Air Force Institute of Technology AFIT\. He received his Ph.D. in 1996 and MSEE in 1992 from AFIT He has 23 years of military and civilian experience in comm networking, biometrics, information security and systems engineering. His research interests include system and enterprise architecture analysis complex adaptive systems, and human systems integration   


  16 APPENDIX.  Complete list of S&T Phased Architecture Views  M ission Phase Relevant Architecture Information Purpose Funct ion Maturit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Pre - system Acquisition Int egrat ed Ri sk Li st Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team Li v i n g Document Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Int egrat ed Ri sk Pl an Documentation outlining the program s risk posture and threshold s for reporting and mitigating risk Initial De l i ve r y Consolidated Ri sk Pl an FFP1B Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Integrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Critical System Requirements Capabilities Constraints Outcomes Identify required program outcomes measures of effectiveness How residual capability may be used if deemed successful Communicate aspects of the mission that must be adhered to and cannot be traded within the project Initial De l i ve r y Mission Plan AV-1 Organizational Roles Boundaries Establish lines of authority Highlight system boundaries that will require interface control documentation to be developed Delegate project roles and responsibilities Initial De l i ve r y Mission Plan OV1 OV4 Design Standards and Life Requirements List of regulatory standards that program is required to comply with Understanding of nominal SC design life and risk classification \(i.e Cl a ss  A B C    List of any international treaties that may affect program decisions List of applicable technical standards Initial De l i ve r y Mission Plan STDV-1 Critical Program  Documentation Identify required documentation information models from various system developers Highlights the how many iterations are planned throughout the document lifecycle Identifies delivery dates for all information among stakeholders Li v i n g Document Pr o gr am Documentation Maturity Matrix FFP2 Note 1:  This needs to be a consolidated government owned product that is inclusive of all mission areas Open System Trades Description organized by subsystem of open design trades and decisions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and associated due dates that are aligned with program constraints Li v i n g Document Tr ad e   Deci si on tracking matrix FFP5 Concept Refinement Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team Li v i n g Document Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Critical System Requirements Capabilities Constraints Outcomes Identify required program outcomes measures of effectiveness How residual capability may be used if deemed successful Communicate aspects of the mission that must be adhered to and cannot be traded within the project Final Delivery Mission Plan AV-1 Organizational Roles Boundaries Establish lines of authority Highlight system boundaries that will require interface control documentation to be developed D elegate project roles and responsibilities Final Delivery Mission Plan OV1 OV4 Required Standards,  Design Life Requirements List of regulatory standards that program is required to comply with Includes Preliminary LV Environments and Loads Understanding of nominal SC design life and risk classification \(i.e Cl a ss  A  B C    List of any international treaties that may affect program decsions List of applicable technical standards Final Delivery Mission Plan STDV-1 This should be coordinated w external agencies to ensure compl et eness Requirements Functionally allocated and derived for each subsystem and component System Developers repsonse to the Technical Requirements Document  Identifies how requirements will be allcoated among various systems Highlights functional responsibility for each subsystem Provides critical data regarding system boundaries and interfaces Final Delivery SV Requirments Specification FFP4 Typically delivered leading up to SRR reference DISA DID SV Technical Requirements Documentation Complete list of performance requirements for the Space System Delivered by the government to the contractor agency responsible for space vehicle design, development and integration Initial De l i ve r y SV Technical Requirements Document FFP3 Open System Trades Description organized by subsystem of open design trades and decisions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and associated due dates that are aligned with program constraints Li v i n g Document Tr ad e   Deci si on tracking matrix FFP5 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





