  1 Assessment and Mitigation of Cyber Exploits in Future Aircraft Surveillance Krishna Sampigethaya 1 Radha Poovendran 2 and Linda Bushnell 2  1 Boeing Research & Technology PO Box 3707, Seattle, WA 98124 radhakrishna.sampigethaya@boeing.com 2 Network Security Lab \(NSL of Electrical Engineering, Univers ity of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195 rp3@u.washington.edu, lb2@u.washington.edu  Abstract 227This paper investigates cyber security issues with automatic dependent surveillance broadcast \(ADS-B\based air traffic control. Before wide-scale deployment in civil aviation, any airborne or ground-based technology must be 
ensured to have no adverse impact on safe and profitable system operations, both unde r normal conditions and failures. With ADS-B, there is a lack of a clear understanding about vulnerabilitie s, how they can impact airworthiness and what failure conditions they can potentially induce. The proposed work streamlines a threat assessment methodology for security evaluation of ADS-B based surveillance. To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first to identify the need for mechanisms to secure ADS-B based airborne surveillance and propose a security solution. This paper presents preliminary findings and results of the ongoing investigation 12  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 
1  2  S YSTEM M ODEL 2  3  A SSESSING C YBER E XPLOITS IN ATC 4  4  M ITIGATION OF S ECURITY T HREATS 4  5  P ROPOSED S OLUTION   ADS-B  
P OSITION V ERIFICATION IN A IRBORNE S URVEILLANCE 5  6  P RELIMINARY E VALUATION OF S OLUTION 7  7  O PEN P ROBLEMS 8  8  R ELATED W ORK 8  9  C ONCLUSIONS 
9  R EFERENCES 9  B IOGRAPHY 10  1  I NTRODUCTION  Existing Air Traffic Control ATC\systems are at their life\222s end, with software, system architectures and communication links not having the growth capacity to meet demands of future avia tion. The \223e-Enabled aircraft\224 promises to help modernize ATC using advanced sensing computing and communications, e.g., Global Positioning System \(GPS\tomatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast \(ADS-B\ernet Protocol networki  Using GPS and ADS-B each aircra 
ft can estimate its current position and periodically broadcast a traffic beacon containing its digital identifier, 3-D position, velocity, intent  1 978-1-4244-3888-4/10 25.00 \2512010 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1342, Version 2 Updated November 1, 2009 and other spatial data  Al l one-hop nei ghbors wi t h  ADSB transponders can use these br oadcasts to accurately locate and monitor the aircraft \226 ground controllers use broadcasts from aircraft for ground surve illance, and aircraft use broadcasts from other aircraft for airborne surveillance. The resulting high accuracy and pe rformance of air traffic surveillance can enhance situa tion awareness, enabling each aircraft to independently mane uver and choose flight paths i.e., the Free Flight concept [4 
Internet Protocol \(IP\working allows e-Enabled aircraft to participate in the Aeronautical Telecommunication Network \(ATN\ng air-to-ground and air-to-air data communications. The IP ATN is a key enabler in the beneficial transition from voice-based to data-based air traffic services and aeronautical operational control  This paradigm shift promises to decentralize air traffic control tasks and reduce cognitive load on ground controllers and pilots. Today, IP networking is tested in some commercial aircraft for Internet access Before wide-scale deployment in civil aviation, however ADS-B and IP ATN must be ensured to have no adverse impact on safe and expected system operations, both under normal conditions and failures. Many of these safety reliability and security concerns with ADS-B and IP ATN lie in the emerging \223cyber-phy sical domain\224 where policy 
and technology research are today in their nascent stage     While IP network security issu es are considered by current ATN efforts However, t h ere i s no cl ear underst a ndi ng of ADS-B vulnerabilities, potential impacts of ADS-B exploits on airworthiness, and the induced failure conditions. Developing such an understanding is especially vital to realize ADS-B based airborne surveillance and advanced concepts such as Free Flight A full threat assessment of ADS B is hence warranted to create public trust in future air transport and accelerate equipage on existing aircraft, two major challenges in the modernization of ATC. The paper aims to streamline this effort by evaluating and mitigating potential threats to ADSB based surveillance of aircraft in a future airspace 


  2  Figure 1 \226 Illustration of the high-level ATC system model considered in this paper Major Vulnerabilities in Future Surveillance Vulnerabilities in ground and air borne surveillance emerge because of the dependency of critical ATC tasks on the integrity of ADS-B data delivered over a shared communication link. To create unwarranted flight delays unnecessary safety concerns and operational costs in the ATC system, attackers may attempt to intentionally engineer errors in surveillance by disrupting GPS or by corrupting/spoofing ADS-B data. For example, creating false flight route conflicts by broadcasting false ADS-B positions. Such cyber induced failure conditions may cause an ATC system to degrade in accuracy and/or performance Most safety threatening situations in surveillance, such as mid-air collisions, can be mitigated by relying on the onboard Traffic Collision and Alerting System \(TCAS transceiver which interrogates corresponding transceivers of neighboring aircraft. In fact, the integration of TCAS with ADS-B is ongoi   For ground surveillance, multilateration is a wellestablished security soluti  11  12  13  Multilateration allows ground c ontrollers to verify the position in a received ADS-B beacon by estimating the position from received ADS-B si gnal properties \(e.g., signal strength, time-of-arrival\is verification capability can be further strengthened using existing surveillance radar infrastructure, for safety-cr itical applicati  However, airborne surveillance is currently impeded by the dearth of feasible solutions for verification of position data received by aircraft. The pr oblem is more challenging because of the inab ility to perform multilateration in an independent mobile aircraft as well as potential for easy spoofing of ADS-B transceivers in airborne surveillance Paper Contributions  This paper identifies the lack of cyber security solutions for ADS-B based airborne surveillance. This paper proposes a network-based solu tion for each aircraft to verify position in received ADS B data, by involving onehop airborne neighbors in the verification process. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first work to propose a solution for securing ADS-B based airborne surveillance  This paper classifies the impact of ADS-B based airborne surveillance cyber exploits on the ATC system, and the technologies and processes needed to efficiently respond to these exploits 2  S YSTEM M ODEL  Figure 1 illustrates a high-level abstraction of the future ATC system considered in this paper, with aircraft of different classes using ADS-B and IP ATN for air traffic control applications, as well as ground controllers that receive and send air traffic communications. The e-Enabled aircraft uses GPS sensor to compute highly accurate position data for navigation and surveillance In ADS-B, each aircraft peri odically broadcasts traffic beacons, once or twice per second, using the ADS-B OUT mode \(see Figure 1\rollers and aircraft one communication hop away use the ADS-B IN mode for performing ground surveillance and airborne surveillance 


  3 respectively. ADS-B datalink standards include 1090 MHz Extended Squitters and Universal Access Transceiver UAT\h with a transmission range of 100 miles or more 14]. The default identifie r in each ADS-B beacon is assumed to be a permanent digital identifier of aircraft, e.g 24-bit International Civil Aviation Organization \(ICAO address. Apart from traffic beacons, the ADS-B data links can be used to communicate tr affic information broadcasts from ground controllers such as real-time weather and locations of non-equipped aircra ft. The reachability of this traffic information can be extended via multi-hop communications between aircraft Airborne IP networking capability enables multi-hop communications between aircraft as well as between aircraft and ground systems of ATC and airline operation centers see Figure 1\rborne IP network applications include ATN services, i.e., safety-criti cal air traffic services and business-critical aeronautical operational control and passenger communications. A potential IP wireless datalink is the L-band Digital Aeronautical Communication System with a typical range of 135 miles or mo   Terminology In the remainder of the paper, th e aircraft claiming to be at a position is referred to as the Pr over \(P ground controller attempting to verify that P is at the claimed position is referred as the Verifier \(V summaries the notation employed in the paper System Assumptions Access to the ATC system is assumed to be managed properly. It is also assumed that cryptographic and security quantities are properly maintained and protected. Sufficient protection is provided for robustness against well known denial of service attacks. In case of ADS-B failures secondary or primary surveillance radar coverage is assumed to be available and adequate to meet minimum operating standard requirements for ATC. Further, airlines are assumed capable of managing onboard network and security configurations in a reliable and correct manner Sufficient checks, inhibitors and controls are in place to prevent unauthorized physical access to onboard systems Additionally, ground contro l operators and radar infrastructure are assumed to properly conduct ATC tasks However, each ADS-B transceiver is assumed to be an untrusted entity in the system It is assumed that each airc raft can use radio frequency communication signal properties such as received signal strength and time--of-arrival to estimate distance to a communicating aircraft one hop away. Additionally antenna onboard the aircraft is assumed to be omnidirectional Relevant System Properties and Requirements 1  Group Navigation: Aircraft movement is spatially and temporally constrained since they mostly follow predictable routes, except possibly during Free Flight and usually travel in a pre-flight established trip time Therefore, aircraft traversi ng in a similar direction and within one-hop communication range can be expected to be an ad hoc navigating group of nodes forming a fully connected network graph within the group for relatively long time periods 2  Trust, Scalability and Real-time Constraints: During travel, an aircraft can r eceive communications from a large number of nodes in airspace with which the aircraft does not have pre-established trust relations Nevertheless, the aircraft must be capable of safe global travel across multiple networks operated by independent entities. Furtherm ore, the aircraft faces real-time constraints for making safe tactical ATC decisions based on the r eceived communications 3  Message Size Constraints: Based on the current standards for ADS-B datalinks, a broadcast surveillance message size can vary in order of only a few tens to several hundreds of bytes, e.g., for ADS-B UAT link maximum size for traffic beacons is 34 bytes and for traffic information broadcasts from ground is 554 byte  4  Regulatory Constraints: Civil aviation is subject to a well-established stringent regulatory environment to assure that aircraft safety and public well being are protected. Regulatory agencies such as the FAA, set mandatory guidelines that must be met for the aircraft to be considered airworthy and flight-ready. Any new cyber technology for aircraft must be shown to have no impact on safe operation of the aircraft Furthermore, proposed solutions and requirements must be integral to current well-defined ATC regulations such as flight rules and capable of meeting minimum operating standards for ATC, such as required surveillance performance Table 1 Notation used in the paper Notation Description G j  Group j of aircraft GL j  Group leader of a group j E     Expected value or mean value  MAC k     Message authentication code using key k  P Prover V Verifier  V i or V   A set of verifiers  V i  Size of set V i  i  m Broadcast of a message m by entity i i j  m Communication of message m from i to j x, y x concatenated to y  ADSB i  ADS-B beacon/message from entity i l i  3-D position of an entity i  d\(l i l j  Euclidean distance between l i and l j  


  4 5  Cost Constraints: System operation and maintenance costs must be reduced at the different aviation stakeholders. Therefore, any proposed solution must minimize overhead. Further, to obtain a return-ofinvestment on existing ATC systems and processes any new technology and solution must be compatible with them Adversary Model The overall objective of the adversary is to degrade accuracy and performance of th e ATC system by attacking air traffic information assets e.g., motivation of hackers or criminal organizations. The use of ADS-B datalink in the ATC system offers easy open access to traffic communications, allowing adve rsary to create unexpected behaviors in and potential loss of highly accurate surveillance. For simplified analysis, the paper considers attacks to be only over ADS-B datalinks The adversary can be external to the ATC system \(e.g., an unauthorized ADS-B transceiver on the ground\e of passive eavesdropping of communications as well as active attacks on communications such as data corruption spoofing and wireless channe l jamming. Additionally, the adversary is capable of varying its transmission power hence one-hop communication range. Moreover, the adversary can be an insider who compromises some unattended ADS-B ground stations or aircraft equipped with a UAT datalink for active attacks Insiders can be deterred by en forcing legal regulations and sufficiently safeguarded agai nst using specific physical logical and organizational inhibitors. However, the paper considers threats from external attackers as well as insiders for rigor and completeness of security analysis. Such an approach can enhance the level of protection to future ATC systems 3  A SSESSING C YBER E XPLOITS IN ATC   The cyber exploits in ADS-B based surveillance can result in the following threats to the ATC system model Classification of Security Threats to Surveillance 1  Disruption of GPS readings: The adversary may attempt to remotely manipulate GPS readings to introduce errors in position computations onboard 2  Wireless jamming of surveillance-related communications: The adversary may attempt to block wireless communications in a given region-of-interest by channel jamming, resulting in non-availability of ADS-B and/or GPS services 3  Exploitation of ADS-B communications: Passive eavesdropping of ADS-B messages can allow adversary to accurately tr ack aircraft and invade location privacy of operators of some aircraft types e.g., business jets, chartered aircraft and personally owned aircraft 4  Manipulation of ADS-B communications: ADS-B data may be corrupted or spoofed to generate false aircraft position claims in the ATC system Therefore, to mitigate impact of these threats on the ATC system, the integrity and authenticity both of GPS and ADS-B data, privacy of ADS-B data as well as availability of wireless communications must be assured 4  M ITIGATION OF S ECURITY T HREATS  Assurance of GPS A solution to guarantee the accur acy of GPS readings is to include spatial accuracy parameters in the ADS-B messages to establish error margins for computations at the recipient  Int e gri t y of readi ngs can be m oni t o red and prot ect ed by augmenting GPS with other systems such as GroundBased Augmentation System \(GBAS  A hi gh-l e vel  assessment of the potential impact of GPS vulnerabilities such as interference from wireless jamming, on aviation safety is in A backup m echani s m i s  furt her needed t o  compensate any outage or disruption of GPS services. An assessment of the security of a backup system, called Enhanced Loran, is in  Graceful Degradation of Surveillance Wireless jamming is difficult to prevent, and can lead to unanticipated disruptions of ADS-B services. Upon detection of jamming, one strategy is to degrade ADS-B based coverage to secondary surveillance radar based coverage. As discussed in [17 the \223circle of avoidance\224 of an aircraft must be gradua lly increased to reflect the resulting degradation in surveillance accuracy Privacy Mode and Privacy Enhancement for ADS-B In order to deter any unauthorized identification of aircraft hence its operator\e ADS-B UAT datalink includes an anonymous mode. In this mode the aircraft is allowed to construct a random identifier from its ICAO identifier current position and time, and employ this random identifier when using ATC services. However, as pointed out in  this mode may not ensure privacy protection. ADS-B data from a target aircraft may be used for unauthorized location tracking of the target, potentially invading location privacy of the aircraft operator. Promising solutions to mitigate unauthorized location tracking of aircraft have been proposed in  


  5 Use of Multilateration for ADS-B Position Verification For verifying aircraft positions, multilateration serves as a well-established solution. Three or more verifiers can combine estimates of their relative distance to P, and bound the position of P to be at the intersection of three circles Several multilateration based mechanisms have been proposed to verify position in formation in ADS-B data received at the ground cont rollers \(see Section 8 Multilateration in some situations however may have weaknesses. For example, it may be possible to simulate virtual ADS-B transmitters by varying timing of multiple transmitters at a given position or offset the position calculation by disrupting clock synchronization of the ground receivers [19 Use of Radar for ADS-B Position Verification Primary surveillance radars on the ground and TCAS onboard aircraft can serve as multilateration backup mechanisms to interrogate a compromised aircraft and verify its ADS-B position. These solutions can also be employed for providing high assurance in critical applications of ADS-B such as separation assurance Use of Cryptography for ADS-B Message Verification Cryptographic approaches can help protect data communications between aircraft and ground controllers Use of symmetric-key based so lutions offers an efficient means to protect integrity and authenticity of ADS-B messages from aircraft as well as other traffic information from ground controlle One approach appl i cabl e t o  ADS-B messages from an aircraft is to use a keyed hash or Message Authentication Code or the Advanced Encryption Standard with padding. However, symmetric-key based solutions require aircraft and ground controllers to pre-share a secret which can lead to scalability challenges in managing keys in a highly crowded air traffic system  Asymmetric cryptography solutions can well serve to protect traffic information from ground controllers to aircraft, since allowed message sizes can be in order of several hundred bytes \(e.g., approx. 556 bytes for ADS-B UAT\otential solution approach is to use digital signatures and public key encryption based on efficient asymmetric cryptography such as Elliptic Curve Cryptography. However, use of digital signatures can be challenging for protection of ADS-B data from aircraft to ground controllers, because of relatively smaller payload e.g., 34 bytes for UAT\Furthe rmore, to verify signatures the onboard systems must be able to validate associated digital certificates, requiring scalable solutions for the identification of large number of nodes encountered by each navigating aircraft during global travel  At  t h e sam e  time, scalability of solutions for verification of signed assets at ground controllers can also be an i These rem a i n  as open problems However, both symmetric and asymmetric cryptography are not viable for protecting ADS-B data received by aircraft in airborne surveillance. Major challenges include the impracticality of pre-sharing a secret between two aircraft and managing onboard digital certificates in a future air traffic system that is highly dense with aircraft spanning global routes. While ground controllers may authenticate signed ADS-B broadcasts from an aircraft using a common shared key or digital certifi cate of that aircraft, this capability does not currently extend to aircraft themselves because of trust, scalability real-time and regulatory constraints \(see Section 2 Therefore, use of multilateration, radar, and cryptography solutions apply only to verification of positions in ADS-B data in ground surveillance, where ground controllers use received ADS-B messages to monitor the airspace. None of these solutions are suitable to en able an aircraft to verify position information in ADS-B data received from other aircraft in airborne surveillan ce. Because an aircraft cannot independently estimate 3-D position of another aircraft using received signal measurem ents and additionally, global mobility, high density of airsp ace, impede aircraft from presharing secrets to enabled s ecure communications. The next section describes a solution for position verification in airborne surveillance 5  P ROPOSED S OLUTION   ADS-B  P OSITION V ERIFICATION IN A IRBORNE S URVEILLANCE  This section describes the major building blocks of the proposed solution including time-difference-of-arrival multilateration and group concept. Together, they are employed to enable each aircraft perform position verification of recei ved ADS-B positions Use of Time Difference of Arrival Multilateration When an ADS-B signal from an aircraft P is received by three \(four\ore aircraft, {V}={V 1 V 2 V 3 then {V can use time-difference-of-arrival technique to estimate the 2-D \(3-D\position of P. In this technique, {V} must share the times they received the signal from P, compute the differences between times, and then perform multilateration computations to estimate actual position of P  An underlying principle of this technique is that RF signals cannot be sent faster than the speed of light c  Therefore, if four or more verifiers can communicate the time instances at which they received ADS-B signal of P they can independently estimate P\222s actual position and verify claimed position in ADS-B message of P It should be noted here that in stead of time of arrival, each aircraft in {V} can independently estimate the relative distance to P using the receive d signal strength. However since it is assumed that the adversary can vary its 


  6  transmission power, the verifier does not have knowledge of the transmitted signal strength [21 Hen ce th e v erifier cannot estimate the relative distance based on the received signal strength. Moreover, distance measurements are susceptible to distance enlarg ement or reduction and must be accounted for in an error margin Use of Group Concept 1  The mobility of aircraft is spatially and temporally restricted as well as spatially dependent \(as noted in Section 2\These constraints result in the group navigation property, i.e., aircraft in geographical proximity can navigate as a group. The aircraft in a navigating group will have the same average velocity due to the spatial dependency and temporal restrictions as well as similar direction due to the spatial restrictions, over a period of time 2  A group of navigating aircraft within distance r 0 2 where r 0 is aircraft transmission range, are i  geographically proximate ii maintain full IP network connectivity, and iii communications do not suffer any significant signal degradation. The last two claims are based on a study in road vehicular ad hoc networks, which showed that if 300m is a typical value for vehicle transmission range, then signal-to-noise ratio for mobile communication between vehicles within 150 m is adequate to provide reliable communication 3  A group of geographically proximate aircraft can consecutively receive an ADS-B beacon from a prover. A group of aircraft can then use IP network air-to-air links to communicat e the times of arrival of the ADS-B signal and verify the ADS-B position Based on the above observations and benefits, we propose that aircraft form a group during navigation. In order to form a group, each Group Member must be able to hear the broadcast of every other member \(i.e., within distance r 0 2 This ensures that a fully conn ected IP network graph exists within the group \(based on observation \(2\Since aircraft in a group will move relative to each other and on average have the same velocity \(based on observation \(1 can be represented by a single aircraft known as the Group Leader \(GL\l IP connectivity within group allows group communications in which all members can establish group secrets and perform joint operations We originally proposed a modified version of the above group concept in the context of vehicular ad hoc networks  that version to aeronautical ad hoc networks for privacy enhancement of aircraft operators   In t h i s  paper, t h e benefi t and appl i cat i on of group concept is further extended to allow each aircraft to utilize one communication hop neighbors for high confidence verification of recei ved ADS-B positions Together, the group concept and time-difference-of-arrival based multilateration can enable a group of aircraft to securely communicate time measurements of a received ADS-B signal, use the communicated measurements to self estimate actual position of the source of the ADS-B signal and if needed perform secu re voting to invalidate any potentially corrupt or spoofed ADS-B message. We describe the protocol below Proposed Protocol for Position Verification The position verification protocol is initiated when one or more members of group G receive an ADS-B message from P, where P can be i an aircraft not in G, or ii  in G which is observed by the members to be behaving erroneously for a certain time period Figure 2 shows the pseudocode for the position verification protocol. For simplicity, it is assumed that all member of G form the set of verifiers and that P is outside the group G As seen, in Step \(1\of the protocol, P broadcasts its ADS-B message. Upon receiving the ADS-B signal from P, the members of a group G record the time of arrival of the signal as well as the data in the message \(in Step \(2\Each member then composes a message that contains the recorded time of arrival, ADS-B position and GPS time of P, and a time stamp, generates a keyed hash using a group key, and broadcasts the message and keyed hash together to the group over IP network link \(Step \(3\Each member verifies received messages from members and performs time-difference-of-arrival multilateration to estimate the actual position of P \(Step \(4 G={V}; V i is in {V}; P is not in G  1 ADSB P 2 i T i time of arrival of ADS-B signal from P at V i  3 i G : \(l P t P  i timestamp, MAC k l P t P  i timestamp 4 i perform multilateration computation on {T 1 T 2 T 3 205., T G  l\222 P computed estimate of P\222s actual position if l\222 P not same as l P  V i GL: initiate voting protocol for message invalidation  G: execute voting protocol elseif P is new to G  GL: initiate Group Join protocol for P endif  Figure 2 \226 High-level pseudocode for the proposed ADSB position verification protocol If there is a match between actual position and claimed position of P, and P is not a member of the group then the GL initiates a Group Join protocol to share group secrets the protocol ends with a success. If there is a mismatch then the group G enters into a distributed voting protocol to decide if P is a compromised aircraft or not. Additionally, if needed, one or more ground controllers within communication range of the GL can act as an arbiter to 


  r 0 being aircraft transmission range Therefore, bounds for the average group size   1 1 2 2 i G i r G i e r GE 002 212 212   212  10\\(Pr1  2 For a given airspace, the group should at least include one aircraft acting as the group leader, and can potentially include all aircraft within the circular region     2 i G rA   7 resolve the situation. The message authentication code MAC\ng the group key k is used to protect the integrity and source authenticity of group communications, and the timestamp is used to mitigate any replay of the message A preliminary version of other protocols employed in the group, such as for Group Formation protocol where an aircraft initiates a group, Group Join where an aircraft joins an existing group, Group Leave Protocol where an aircraft exits a group, Group Leader Election for periodic randomized election of the leader as well as establishment of the group key k and other group secrets, are in  6  P RELIMINARY E VALUATION OF S OLUTION  This section presents a preliminary high-level evaluation of the proposed solution. For simplification of analysis, this paper considers only the 2-D plane. Assuming that aircraft are uniformly distributed in airspace with density 002\004 002\004 212 212 005\005 4 Using the derived upper bound in Equation \(4\the theoretical maximum group size achievable for a given airspace density can be determined. Figure 3 shows that as the aircraft transmission range increases from 40nm to 100 nm, the group size for a given density increases significantly. This type of evaluation can provide valuable inputs to the study of tradeoffs between using a large aircraft transmission range ve rsus lowering interference of ADS-B and IP network communications. The evaluation also informs the choice of r 0 needed to enhance separation assurance using airborne surveillance Theoretical estimate of group size 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 Airspace density \(nodes / 10,000 nm^2 Group size r0 = 40 nm r0 = 60 nm r0 = 80 nm r0 = 100 nm  Figure 3 \226 Maximum group size versus airspace density for different aircraft transmission range Discussion of Potential Exploits in the Group Concept This section will present discussion of attacks on proposed solution 1  Compromised Group Leader: A group leader rotation mechanism can be employ ed to ensure that a compromised aircraft cannot manipulate ATC communications of the group. The election of the leader must be randomized among the group members  ore, because the group leader incurs overhead \(e.g., computations and communications needed for group join\he use of a periodic leader rotation maintains fairness in the ATC system 2  Compromised Group Member: Aircraft can initiate and form a secure group when they begin their flight and leave a terminal area, since ground controllers detects any compromised airc raft that is manipulating ADS-B data within the group. Once this group of aircraft is in Free Flight or in a region with sparse ground controller coverage, they can perform independently airborne surveillance. During this period, as long as a majority of the group members are honest, adversary cannot spoof or corrupt ADS-B data without detection in the group. Furthermore, since ground controllers are not considered part of group compromising them will not influence the group 002 004 005  3 where 2 0 rr i G    1 002 002 212  1 If G i  denotes a group of aircraft, then the average group size expected value\s given by  003  ANANEGE i       Pr A i e i A iAN   A e A AN ANE 002  number of aircraft in area A denoted N  A  spatial Poi    


  8 7  O PEN P ROBLEMS  Determining Effective Response to Cyber Attacks in ATC To efficiently respond to the detected cyber attacks in ATC the design of solutions and procedures must be such that the performance and accuracy of the ATC system can gracefully degrade with in crease in the fraction of compromised nodes. For instance, when V repeatedly detects spoofing attack by nodes in airspace, a safe solution is a well-established combination of technology and processes to i avoidance for V over a short period of time, i.e., the radius of the circle of avoidance increases from r N to r F with r F r N and ii  ensure that the transition is safe even in the presence of malicious nodes in the system \(see Figure 4\ce of r F directly determines the de gradation of efficiency in operation and the required transition time. For instance, the circle of avoidance of seconda ry surveillance radar is highly conservative and not necessarily the best approach for all attack detections. The use of a pessimistic circle of avoidance radius will allow adversary to enlarge the impact of an exploit from a terminal area to an entire ATC center  Figure 4 \226 Illustration of a surveillance scenario Robustness against Intelligent Jamming The disruption of surveillance services due to data link jamming or unintentional interference induced failure modes of ADS-B is currently well covered by safety analyses. As mentioned in Section 4, non-availability of ADS-B in the presence of jamming or unintentional interference can be potentially mitigated by gracefully degrading to a backup surveilla  the use of ADS-B and IP ATN fo r air traffic communications risks emerge from intelligent jamming attacks, e.g selective jamming of air traffi c flows. Furthermore, the proposed protocols must also be evaluated in the presence of jamming attacks, which can potentially block certain group members from participating in the protocols The development of methods to differentiate between intentional interference from jamming and unintentional interference is a major challenge with jamming detection Upon detection, potential jamming mitigation mechanisms include random hopping between multiple communications channels available for aircraft However, because of safetycriticality of air traffic surveillance, we expect jamming detection and mitigation solutions must be safety assured highly robust and free of false alarms. Jamming exploits and mitigations will be studied separately in our future work 8  R ELATED W ORK  An abundance of literature addr esses the airborne point-topoint networking issues, such as transmission protocol design and the impact of air traffic density on the network topology, as well as the desi gn of safety-critical ATC operations such as conflict detection and resolution in Free Flight. However, only a few have begun to address security and reliability of future ATC based on ADS-B Among the major standards, ARINC 623 specifies the format for traffic messages over point-to-point ACARS data link, and ARINC 823 provides a framework for securing ACARS messages between aircraft and ground systems RTCA SC-186 has begun standardization of ADS-B and commercial aviation implementations based on 1090-ES broadcast data link, and a variety of ADS-B applications are being documented in RTCA DO-242A  a sol u t i on approach i s proposed where t w o multilaterations are combined at the ground controller, one from use of time-of-arrival of the aircraft beacons and another from ADS-B position data. This solution works in well-covered regions such as te rminal areas, where at least 4 ground controllers are available to verify aircraft\222s 3-D position.. For remote regions with less than 4 ground stations, a promising approach for position verification of aircraft is to use ADS-B enabled multilateration in combination with Kalman filter estimation of the flight trajectory based on the bearing information of the source making the position claim Thi s approach however assumes the availability of a dedicated omni-directional antenna onboard the aircraft for deriving source heading  a pot ent i a l sol u t i on has been proposed t o m a ke an aircraft independen tly verify integrity of received ADS-B data despite missing or erroneous data points, without requiring additional sources of surveillance information e.g., heading or bearing\of the position claimer P. The solution uses a Kalman filter based approach to estimate P\222s aircraft\222s state and analyze ai rcraft intent from successfully received ADS-B messages of P hence verifying that the target aircraft conforms to the intent included in its ADS-B messages. However, the st udy assumes ADS-B datalink errors are mainly because of non-malicious factors, such as mobility or channel interference, or from channel jamming 


  9 by attackers. Although robustness of this solution is not investigated in t h i s m e t hod does not consi d er at t ackers who are capable of spoofing, corrupting or blocking any number of ADS-B messages to bias the computed state estimate and intent analysis of one or more aircraft degrading performance and accuracy of airborne surveillance 9  C ONCLUSIONS  This paper presents preliminary findings in an ongoing investigation of cyber exploits in ADS-B based aircraft surveillance. After reviewing state-of-the-art in securing surveillance, this paper identifies that verification of ADS-B positions received at aircraft is a major open problem.  This paper proposes a solution that employs a group of navigating aircraft to inter act and verify received ADS-B positions with high confidence. A high-level analysis shows that with increased traffic density projected for future airspaces and large communi cation ranges available for aeronautical data datalinks, the proposed solution can potentially perform well and be robust to a minor fraction of compromised nodes in airspace Future work includes an ex tensive evaluation of the proposed solution, using simulations and traffic data for airspaces, and an assessment of the position estimation accuracy achievable by the pr oposed solution. Further modeling and quantification of the impact of cyber exploits on the ATC system will be studied to determine the required performance levels for mitigation solutions. Incentive schemes for promoting active participation of noncooperative aircraft in the group must also be investigated Furthermore, formal modeling of proposed protocols will be used to verify security properties A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors, and should not be interpreted as the views of The Boeing Company  R EFERENCES   C W a rgo and C. Dhas, \223Secu rity considerations for the eenabled aircraft,\224 2003 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2003   R T C A DO-242A, M i ni m u m Avi a t i on Sy st em  Performance Standards for Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast \(ADS-B   C   B a uer, S. Ay az, \223A t horough i nvest i g at i on of m obi l e  IPv6 for the aeronautical environment,\224 IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference-Fall Pr oceedings, pp. 1-5, 2008   R T C A Fi nal R e port of R T C A Task Force 3 Free Fl i ght  Implementation, 1995  IC AO AC P, \223M anual for t h e ATN usi ng IPS St andards and Protocols \(Doc 9896\2009 http://www.icao.int/anb/Panels/ACP  C Scovel 223Federal Avi a t i on Adm i ni st rat i on  Act i ons Needed To Achieve Mid-Term NextGen Goals,\224 http://www.oig.dot.gov/StreamFile?file=/data/pdfdocs/W EB_FILE_NextGen_Statement.pdf, 2009   R Poovendran, et al A com m uni t y report of t h e 2008 workshop on high confidence transportation cyberphysical systems, June 2009 http://www.ee.washington.edu research/nsl/aar-cps   K Sam p i g et hay a R Poovendran, L. B u shnel l 223Secure operation, maintenance and control of future e-enabled airplanes,\224 Proceedings of the IEEE, 96:12, pp. 19922007, Dec. 2008   R T C A  Speci al C o m m i t t ee 218 Term s of R e ference Future ADS-B / TCAS Relationships,RTCA Paper No 095-08/PMC-619, March 13, 2008   M  Sharpl es, H. Hut c hi nson, K C a rpent e r and D Bowen, \223Integrity and security of ADS-B,\224 SurTech Proceedings, 2004   J Krozel and D. Andri s ani 223Independent ADS-B  Verification and Validation,\224 AIAA Aviation Technology, Integration, and Operations Conference Proceedings, pp. 1\22611, 2005   K. Sam u el son, E. Val ova ge, D. Hall, \223Enhanced ADS-B research,\224 2006 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings 2006   J. Krozel D. Andri s ani M Ay oubi T Hoshi zaki  C  Schwalm, \223Aircraft ADS-B Data Integrity Check,\224 2004 AIAA Aviation, Technology, Integration, and Operations Conference Proceedings, 2004 


  10   R T C A  DO-282A, M i ni m u m Operat i onal Perform ance Standards for Universal Access Transceiver \(UAT Automatic Dependent Surveillance \226 Broadcast \(ADS-B Vol. 1, 2004  E Lester and J. Hansm a n, \223Benefits and incentives for ADS-B equipage in the nati onal airspace system,\224 MIT ICAT Report, ICAT-2007-2, 2007  W  Ochi eng, K. Sauer, D. W a l s h, G. B rodi n S Gri ffi n M. Denney, \223GPS integrity and potential impact on aviation safety,\224 The Journal of Navigation, 56, pp. 51-65 2003 17] M. Gariel, E. Feron 223Graceful Degradation of Air Traffic Operations: Airsp ace Sensitivity to Degraded Surveillance Systems,\224 Proceed ings of the IEEE, 96:12 pp. 2028-2039, Dec. 2008  K. Sam p i g et hay a R Poovendran, \223Pri vacy of ai r t r affi c management broadcasts,\224 I EEE Digital Avionics Systems Conference Proceedings, October 2009 19  C B Haley R. Lan e y, J. D. Mo ffett, B. Nu seib eh  223Security Requirements Engineering: A Framework for Representation and Analysis,\224 IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, 34:1, pp.133-153, Jan.-Feb. 2008  Federal Avi a t i on Adm i ni st rat i on, 14 C F R Part 25 Special Conditions: Boeing model 787-8 airplane systems and data networks security protection of airplane systems and data networks from unauthorized external access, Federal Register, 72:72, 2007 http://edocket.access.gpo.gov/2007/pdf/07-1838.pdf 21] S. Capkun and J.-P. H ubaux, \223Securing position and distance verification in wireless networks,\224 Technical report EPFL/IC/200443, May 2004  K. Sam p i g et hay a M Li L. Huang, R  Poovendran 223AMOEBA: Robust Location Privacy Scheme for VANET,\224 IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 25:.8, pp.1569-1589, 2007   S Lo B Pet e rson, and P. Enge, \223Assessi ng t h e Securi t y  of a Navigation System: A Case Study using Enhanced Loran,\224 2009 European Navigation Conference GNSS Proceedings, May 2009  A Russell and D. Zuckerm a n, \223Perfect inform ation leader election in log* n + O\(1\h Annual Symposium on Foundations Of Computer Science FOCS\ber 1998  B IOGRAPHY   Krishna Sampigethaya is an advanced technologist at Boeing Research & Technology, Seattle working on cyber-physical systems assurance. He was a program committee member and co-lead of the Infotronics and Infotainment session at the 2008 National Workshop on High Confidence Transportation CPS, and co-chair of the 2009 Army Research Office CPS security workshop at University of Washington. He is serving as the technical chair for aviation cyber-physical security area at the 2009 SAE AeroTech Congress & Exhib ition and as a technical cochair for trustworthy aviation information systems area at the 2010 AIAA Infotech@Aerospace conference Radha Poovendran is an Associate Professor and founding director of the Network Security Lab \(NSL\ in the Electrical Engineering Department at the University of Washington. He has co-edited a book titled Secure Localization and Time Synchronization in Wireless Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks and has served as a co-guest editor for an IEEE JSAC special issue on wireless ad hoc networks security. He has received the NSA Rising Star Award and Faculty Early Career Awards including the National Scie nce Foundation CAREER award 2001\, ARO YIP \(2002\, ONR YIP \(2004\, and PECASE 2005\ for his research contri butions to multiuser security He has recently co-chaired the 2008 National Workshop on High Confidence Transportation cyber-physical systems CPS\ and chaired the 2009 ARO workshop on CPS security at University of Washington. He is also co-chairing the trustworthy aviation information systems technical area at the 2010 AIAA Infotech@Aerospace Linda Bushnell is a Research Assistant Professor and founding Director of the Networked Control Systems Lab, Electrical Engineering Department, University of Washington \(UW\, Seattle. Her research interests include networked control systems theory, embedded systems design, and robotics She has held positions with ARO and Duke University. Prof. Bushnell received the U.S government\222s Superior Civ ilian Service Award \(2000 National Science Foundation ADVANCE Fellowship 2002\, UW WiSE Graduate Student Mentor of the Year Award \(2002\, UW EE Chair\222s Award \(2003\, and IEEE Control Systems Society Recognition Award \(2008\. She has served as an Associate Editor for IEEE CONTROL SYSTEMS MAGAZINE  


  11  Figure 16 \226 The loss of spat ial resolution for errors in p    The spatial distribution of th e reconstructed images is illustrated in Figure 17 for p 0.5\260 and 400nm, 425nm and 450nm As expected, the larger dispersion at the shorter wavelengths will cause a larger shif t error.  In fact, as shown in Fig. 17 the error radius can become so large that we again see donuts as point response functions in the reconstruction Final Comments Specific systematic sources of error have been presented in this section independently Obviously it is a combination these errors that will propaga te through the transform to give the final result in terms of resolution and displacement in the reconstructed hyperspectral data set.  The contribution of each systematic error source in terms of the derived r   p  or  x\222 y\222 representation can be used to create an error kernel for each given in Equations 10 and 11 multiplied in series in Fourier space or convolved in series in the spatial domain to evaluate the cumulative effect  3  C OMPARISON TO M EASUREMENTS  The effect and sensitivity of th e selected systematic errors have been shown given the mathematical models for projection and reconstruction.  Data taken from the AFIT CTI instrument will be examined to determine how well the model is capturing the modeled impact of the systematic error with controlled in strumental inaccuracies Data Collection and Analysis An effective point source will be the target for the system and is represented by a 300 m pinhole at the object plane illuminated by a combination of an Hg pen lamp and red laser pointer.  This provid es 5 clear lines at 404.7nm 435.8nm, 546nm, 577.5nm, and 635nm 5 with the first four being from the pen lamp.   Care is taken here to not suggest that this is a true validation of the model, as it is impossible to completely isolate the effect of a single source of error Furthermore, the instrument was not designed with the exact measurement of quan tities such as detector tilt or prism alignment in mind, so these qu antities have to be measured indirectly. An attempt is made to make the particular error in question gross enough to be the overwhelming contributor and variation du e to possible inaccuracy in measurement is included in the model For each instance of induced systematic error in the instrument, projections will be taken at p 0\260-345 1 5 260 increments to provide a total of 23 projections.  This data will not be reconstructed usin g the SAA algorithm as that will serve to compound the contribution of unaccounted error.  Instead, a direct comparison to the derived r   p  will be made in each case.  In assessing the model vs performance, trends in this da ta will be consid ered in favor of absolute difference.  The measurements made address effect of detector tilt and di stance error, accuracy of the dependence of p   on I and error from prism misalignment.  For the this co llected data, a correction will be made to better calibrate the system to the actual p   to avoid the spectral shift in the data Variation in Detector Array Tilt and Distance To measure the affect that til t has on the collected data, the PIMAX camera was slightly ro tated from its position to create an angle between the detector array and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Figure 6.  Because the camera was rotated about its mount point, which is displaced from detector by 70 mm, the rotation angle also  5 The 577.5 line is the average of the Hg doublet that appears here and not clearly resolved by the instrument nm Spatial Res. \(pixels 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 p = 0.10\260 p = 0.25\260 p = 0.50\260  Figure 17 \226 The 400 nm, 425 nm, and 450 nm spatial functions for p 0.5\260.  With greater dispersion, the error most affects the shorter waveleng ths as indicated in Figure 16  


  12 moves the array toward L3 providing some amount of variable d across the array.  Swiveling the camera also rotates the array away from th e image plane, so there is a hard limit on the  that can be imparted before the spectrum is off of the array  The camera is turned 4\260 in the +x-direction x 4\260\nd tilted upward y 2\260\.  The camera was moved toward L 3  by 2mm d 2mm corporating the variable distance imparted by the camera sw ivel.  It is estimated that the tilt angle of the camera can be measured to +/- 0.25\260 and that the error in from both components\within 0.5mm.  These measurement er ror estimations will be used in the model to determine a maximum and minimum range of model results.  Equation 13 will be used to calculate r   p  the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle.  For the 404.7nm source, the image was projected off of the array at p 140\260 - 200\260 thus the gap in data.  The results are shown in Figs. 18-22   Figure 18 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 19\226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 20 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 21 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 22 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 635nm spectral line   The data imply that the overall mean value of r   p  is being captured which represents the contribution of The shapes of the curves appear to match somewhat for the 404nm and 435nm cases, but the correlation for the other three wavelengths is not as cl ose.  For these wavelengths the variation in r   p  as a function of p is very small possibly due to other uncontrolled error.  Also, for these and all spatial location measurements, there is inherent quantization error in determinin g the center of the Gaussian fit function due to the phasing of the samples on the array 6  Change in p  as a Function of I  A major impact on the reconstr uction algorithm is the error in estimation of the prism dispersion angle p   due to the difference in assumed and true values of the incident angle to the prism I This drives the observed error as a result of prism misalignment, as well as the correction needed in the reconstruction to account for fiel d angle.  Here, the explicit dependence of r  on I will first be examined, then the effect of prism misalignment on I   A sample of the spectrum with the object on th e optical axis  I 0\260\n to provide a baseline displacement r for each of the 5 wavelengths in the object.  The prism mount is then successively tilted to vary I   At each step, the magnitude of I  is found by pointing a laser along the optic axis through a small aperture also centered on the optic axis The I 0\260 position is identified wh en the reflection of the laser is exactly back th rough the aperture.  At I 0\260, the laser will be reflected at an angle equal to I and will hit the  6 The system is undersampled, so that changes of less than \275  pixel in location are not reliably measured 


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





