Evaluating Topology-based Metrics for GO Term Similarity Measures Jong Cheol Jeong Center for Bioinformatics University of Kansas Lawrence, KS USA jcjeong@ku.edu Xue-wen Chen Department of Compute Science Wayne State University Detroit, MI USA xwchen@wayne.edu  Abstract  Defining semantic function al similarity measures provides effective means to validate protein function prediction methods and to retrieve biologically relevant information from big biological data. It also improves understanding of interrelationship between genes and gene products \(GPs Currently, one of the most commonly used tools for functionally annotating genes and GPs is the Gene Ontology GO language. To measure the semantic similarity between two GO terms, many studies that are based on GO topology have recently been reported. However, a comprehensive assessment and general guidelines for validating these methods are lacking. In this paper, we collect a large dataset to evaluate five often-used semantic similarity measure methods by estimating sequence similarity, phylogenetic profile similarity, and structural similarity. We further compare the measures in terms of their clustering performance using domains extracted from SCOP database. We describe some key aspects of these measure methods and discuss how the limitations may be addressed as well as some open problems  Keywords— semantic functional similarity; gene products gene ontology I  I NTRODUCTION  Gene Ontology \(GO a structured vocabulary of biological terms and the de facto standard for genome annotation, which describes mo lecular function, biological process and cellular component of genes and gene products GPs\y used in gene function understanding, pathway analysis, and network modeling, among many others. GO functional terms are defined by several sources including wetlaboratory works; therefor e, GO annotation implies integrative information of mu ltiple data sources, which can be purified by controlling the hierarchal relations of terms and the GO evidence code. Furthermore, GO facilitates information exchanges between different biological communities by providing controlled vocabularies and uniform queries across them One of the most important tasks in GO-based applications is to understand functional similarities between two GO terms. In general, GO is structured as a directed acyclic graph \(DAG\ where each node represents a GO term and a directed edge starts from a parent node and ends at a child node. While GO can state that a child node has a more specialized term than its parent nodes, it does not provide quantitative measures that reflect the similarities between any two GO terms. Quantitative similarity measure is important in many GO-based applications. For example in protein function prediction  between the predicted GO terms and true GO terms a protein possesses helps improve the assessment of various predictive models    Figure 1. Overview of current similarity measuring methods  Current methods for term similarity measures are  be roughly grouped into four cate gories, as shown in Fig. 1 The first group uses Informa tion Content \(IC  between the number of GPs at root node \(i.e. GO:0003674 in Fig. 1\t Common Ancestor \(NCA farthest node from the root node i.e. the red rectangle in Fig. 1\ \(i.e. two green rectangles in Fig. 1 cond group also employs IC, but methods in this group calculate IC from the number of GO terms, instead of using the  The third group defines the te rm similarity by directly calculating the distance betw een two GO terms \(with or without weights functional similarity by normaliz ing the depth of NCA with the maximum depth of the entire GO graph [14  While many approaches have been developed for GO term similarity measures, interestingly, contradicted performance has been reported in various studies  2013 IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine 978-1-4799-1310-7/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 


which made it difficult for end users to choose metrics for their applications. Furthermore lack of general guidelines for validating procedures impedes the fair comparisons among different methods. In this paper, we describe some evaluation guidelines that increase the intuitive interpretation of similarity scores through comprehensive evaluation processes. This includes comparisons of structure, phylogenetic profile and sequence similarities and biological/topological clusters We compare five commonly used approaches for term sim ilarity measures and discuss pitfalls and some open problems. In Section II, we detail the five methods. In Section III, comparison guidelines are discussed. Experimental results are presented in Section IV We discuss limitations of current methods and also open problems in Section V II  S IMILARITY M EASURE M ETHODS  In this section, we introduce five methods for GO term similarity measures. Resnik’s  content of Nearest Common Ancestor \(NCA\hich is the closest node from leaf nodes or the farthest node from the root node shared by two GO terms, as the functional similarity of two GO terms. The final score is negative logarithm of the ratio between the number of annotated GPs corresponding to NCA of two GO terms go i and go j and total number of GPs associated with molecular function The equation is defined by       node   with associated  GPs  of   and  of  with associated  GPs  of   Resnik ro ot go go NCA NCA p where NCA p go go si m j i j i   lo g   1  Resnik’s similarity, simResnik, is nonnegative. Due to the unlimited maximum boundary, interpreting the significance of similarity scores is not easy. Therefore, the score is normalized between 0 and 1 by using maximum and minimum value of the observations, which is defined as follows       mi n   max   mi n         si m si m si m j i si m j i norm GO GO GO go go GO go go GO    where GO norm denotes normalized GO term similarity and GO sim O term similarities   methods and the equation is defined by          1 log log log 2  NCA p go p go p NCA p go go sim j i j i   Schli cker 2  where p  go i  i th GO term calculated by the number of annotated GPs for go i and p  NCA CA of go i and go j The score is designed to be decreased when p  NCA  In other words, the final similarity score is rewarded or penalized based on the specificity of the NCA As an edge-based method Jiang and Conrath’s method calculates semantic distances rather than similarities by combining distance of two GO terms and the density of  is shown below                 1      1     min p c T p IC c IC p d p d p E E p c w w where w go go i go go pa th i i j i j i diff      Jiang 3  In this equation w i denotes the weight of ith edge, which is one of edges connecting two GO terms go i and go j with the shortest distance. The weight of each edges is defined between a child node and its direct parent node w  c  p  E  p  denotes number of edges from a parent node to its direct child nodes and is called a density of parent node E denotes an average density in the entire GO graph d  p  denotes depth of parent node and IC  c  IC  p  information content \(IC child node and parent node respectively T  c,p i.e. ‘is-a’ and part-of’ relation and  are parameters to control the significance between depth and density factors with the optimal values of 0.5 and 0.3 respectively, as suggested in the original paper To make diverse comparisons, methods using the probability of GO terms are also considered for evaluation Gentleman’s me U I uses number of GO terms, inst ead of number of GPs. simUL is defined as the ratio between the number of GO terms belonging to the path from root node to NCA path  root  NCA and the number of GO terms resulted in the union of all nodes belonging to the path from root node to each of GO terms go i and go j  path  root, go i   path  root, go j       j i j i go root path go root path NC A root path go go sim    2    UI 4  Finally, we consider Ye’s me on the specificity of GO terms by directly adapting the relative depth of NCA into its similarity function              depth depth depth NC A depth go go sim j i min max min  Ye 5  This is the normalized depth of NCA in terms of the maximum and minimu m depth of the entire functional GO terms in the DAG Note that Eqs. 1-5 calculate similarity scores using the GO graph.  Resnik’s and Schlicker’s methods focus on the GO nodes, Ye’s and Gentleman’s scores emphasize edges 


and Jiang and Conrath’s met hod considers both nodes and edges. Next, we discuss approaches to evaluate the five methods III  E VALUATION M ETHODS  To evaluate the performance of different metrics, we consider the use of the tendency of GP similarities in various forms. The hypothesis is that if genes or GPs are functionally similar, then the similarity calculated from baseline measurements includi ng structure, sequence, and phylogenetic profiles will also show high similarities \(to some degrees We construct a large dataset for evaluation purposes. To get the annotations of each gene/GP in SCOP, high-quality truly domain-centric GO annota tions are downloaded from Superfamily DB \(http://supfam.cs.bris.ac.uk integrated into our local databa se for information retrieval Based on the annotation of SCOP domains at family level, a total of 2,690 unique domains ar e retrieved. Because 44 out of the 2,690 domains are annot ated with non-existing GO terms in current GO, these dom ains are removed from the list. Finally a total number of 2,646 domains are obtained from SCOP, which lead to about 3.5 million unique domain pairs for further studies The evaluation criteria are derived from three categories: sequence, phylogene tic profile and structure similarities. Sequence similarity is often used for identifying  limitations have been reporte d identified by sequence similarities are likely to share similar functions, i.e., sequence similarity and functional similarity are likely to be correlated. To get the sequence similarities all SCOP domain sequences ar e downloaded from ASTRAL  http://astral.berkeley.edu and sequence similarities of all possible pairs of domains are calculated by BLAST http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov with default parameters The rational behind phylogenetic profiles is from the hypothesis that functionally linke d proteins are evolved in a correlated fashion; therefore the homologs of functionally related proteins can be found in the same subset of  checking whether the homologs of proteins are present or absent in the same organism. To create phylogenetic profiles, psiBLAST searches homologs of target proteins against proteins from 25 fully sequenced genomes with evalue less than 10 10 The similarity of phylogenetic profiles between domains is calculated by mutual information as shown in Eq. 6., where x and y denote two vectors of phylogenetic profiles associated with any pairs of two domains p  x  y o domains derived from four possible states of o ccurrences in which zero states absence and one denotes presence p  x  p  y  marginal probability describing the probability of absence and presence of corresponding domains MI x  y   px  y  log px  y  px  py   y  0 1 x  0 1 where  x x  and  y y  6 The third criterion we use is to measure the correlations between the similarity metrics and structure similarities This is based on the observations that knowledge of protein structures often provides a critical insight of protein functions. Indeed, protein stru ctures are more conserved than sequences in evolutionary  h is im plies that the structural similarity has better characteristics to represent the functional relati ons between two proteins. To increase the relevance of meas uring structural similarity two different structural alignm ents are used: TM  ng programs are downloaded from http://zhanglab.ccmb.med.umich.edu/TM-align/ and http://ekhidna.biocenter.helsinki.fi respectively Another criterion we use is clustering, which is utilized to measure the generalization capability of functional similarity measurement. The assumption is that if GPs having functionally close relations are projected into a network, then proteins cate gorized in similar functions should be closely located to each other in the network space To compare the clustering performances, all domain pairs about 3.5 million dataset includes a total of 215 class families \(CF families \(SF\ilies \(FA\. It is well known that proteins in SCOP classificati on at the superfamily level tend to have common evolutionary origins and functional features. Thus, they are more likely to have similar functions. In our study, we choose the family level, which is even more specific than superfamily level \(i.e., it is highly likely that the targeted GPs in the same family will belong to the same functional group   clustering task is to group GPs of the same SCOP family into a cluster. We construct a similarity network with each node representing a SCOP domain and each edge denoting the strength of functional similarity. Edges with similarity scores less than a preset threshold will be removed. By varying the threshold values the similarity network can reach either maximum number of clusters or highest precision \(the ratio of the number of correctly identified edges to the total number of identified edges the tasks on hand IV  E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS  In order to evaluate different methods, correlations between each method and four base line similarities are compared which are shown in Fig. 2, where the averaged similarities of TM-alignment, DALI, Sequence and Phylogenetic profile are described as TM, Dali, Seq, and Phy respectively Tendency curves by using matlab ‘polyfit’ function are drawn with solid lines and depicted as fitTM, fitDali, fitSeq and fitPhy, corresponding to TM-alignment, DALI Sequence, and Phylogenetic profile, respectively. As we can see that there is little correlation between Resnik’s Gentlman’s, Jiangs metrics and sequence-, structure phylogenetic profile-based similarities. Schlicker’s metric correlates well with structure-based similarities when the degree of similarities is high \(70% or higher\verall, Ye’s method outperforms othe r methods and shows good 


correlations with the sequence, phylogenetic profile, and structure similarities. Since Ye’s method simply uses the normalized depth of NCA as its similarity function, the results may suggest that relative depth in a GO DAG may provide better information for term similarities Alternatively, since node information may not be complete e.g., unknown annotation for some gene products of node distributions may al so contribute to the poor correlations shown with other methods. It is also worth mentioning that the correlation scores need not necessarily to  large dataset, the function similarities and sequence structure, phylogenetic profile si milarities are expected to be related to some degrees, especi ally for these highly similar GPs. One issue with Ye’s method though, is that its similarity values are often sm aller than these calculated from other methods. This happens because Ye’s score only considers NCA and in our studi es, most NCAs are identified closer to root GO term. It causes a problem, namely shallow problem, where many GO term pairs have identical similarity scores \(if they share the same NCA or their NCAs have the same depth other studies [8, 13         0   0.2   0.4   0.6   0.8   1   0   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.8   0.9   1   Similarity from Resnik's method Similarity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TM  fitTM  Dali     fitDali  Seq         fitSeq  Phy  fitPhy           0   0.2   0.4   0.6   0.8   1   0   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.8   0.9   1   Smilarity from Schlicker's method Si m il ar it y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TM  fitTM  Dali     fitDali  Seq         fitSeq  Phy  fitPhy    0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 Distance from Jiang's method Si m il ar it y   TM fitTM DALI fitDALI SEQ fitSEQ PHY fitPHY  a b c 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 Similarity from Gentleman's method Si m il ar it y   TM fitTM Dali fitDali Seq fitSeq Phy fitPhy 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 Similarity from Ye's method Similarity   TM fitTM Dali fitDali Seq fitSeq Phy fitPhy   TM similarity score from TM-align fitTM fitted graph on TM data points  DALI similarity score from DALI fitDALI fitted graph on DALI data points  SEQ pairwise sequence simialrity fitSEQ fitted graph on SEQ data points  PHY phylogenetic profile similarity fitPHY fitted graph on PHY data points e\\(f  Figure 2. Correlation measurements between the term similarities measures and sequence/phylogenetic profile/structure-based sim ilarities   Figure 3. Maximum precision reached by each method  To compare the clustering performances, 2646 domains in SCOP databases are used as test data. There are 215, 266 and 393 clusters for class families \(CF\ilies \(SF and families \(FA\, respectively. We compute the functional similarities of all possible combinations of SCOP domains A threshold of similarity scores for each method is adjusted until it reaches the best performance \(either it has maximum number of clusters or highest average precision shows the maximum precisions that each method can reach with three different levels of domain families in SCOP classification. As can be seen the maximum precisions are 100% for Ye’s method, and more than 90% for other methods except for Jiang’s method, for the three categories CF, SF, and FA. However, we al so observed that the average number of clusters that Ye’s method can identify is much smaller than other methods as well as the true number of clusters, i.e., Ye’s method misses many true edges \(e.g., GPs belong to the same family 


V  D ISCUSSIONS AND C ONCLUSIONS  One of the observations is the poor correlations between the various metrics and sequence structure, and phylogenetic profile based similarities, which may result from several issues Two well-documented issues are shadow and shallow problems. A shadow problem is one of the typical issues in similarity measures, which is caused by ignoring the details or fidelity of the target GO terms: terms located below a NCA will not contribute to similarity m shallow  problem is also reported as a si   location and the biased distribu tions of GPs. For example when two sets of GO term pairs having same depth are considered, it is possible that the pair with a NCA near the root node has higher similarity score than the other pair with a NCA far away from The incompleteness of current GO also causes problems our knowledge about the roles of a gene or gene product in cellular life is still accumulating and evolving. Consequently the terms and relations in GO are neither finite nor fully specified. Majority of the methods discussed here employ the information content \(IC r major distributor to define functional similarity, which can be highly biased because of the incompleted genome and interest of studies particularly toward specific species and genomes. To make matters worse the biased data do not necessarily guarantee to reflect the nature of gene or GPs. Theref ore, IC may not be the best measure from biological point of view  Besides the evolving characteristics of GO, two more problems should be considered when information theory is considered as significant cont ributor to define functional similarities: GPs with no annotation and root shared GO terms. When we first started the study, GO database released at April 2011 was used as our master database.  The database showed a total of 9833 functional GO terms, in which 820 terms were obsolete. Thus, we used 9013 GO terms. Due to the fact that most methods derived from information theory use IC to define functional similarity, it is interesting to see the distributions of GPs at i ndividual GO terms. Surprisingly we could not find any related studies on this issue. Although most studies use IC as a part of critical scoring functions, the fundamental sources of this scor e, i.e., the distributions of GPs, have not been reported yet. Simple statistics shows that 2479 GO terms out of 9013 GO terms do not have any associated GPs, which means that only 6534 GO terms are actually meaningful in IC-based methods. Furthermore, more than half of meaningful GO terms have less than 50 GPs many of them with less than five annotated GPs.  Accordingly the IC-based methods are limited by GO terms without annotated GPs and with few annotated GPs Herein root shared GO terms refer to GO terms with a NCA that is the root node. We call this problem as nil functional similarity problems because for most current methods no functional similarity is defined We searched all possible GO term pairs and found that 52% of GO term pairs have root node as their NCAs, i.e methods derived from IC and NCA-based methods cannot di stinct the differences of GO terms or can mislead the results for more than half of all possible GO term pairs. To find out the biological relevance of using IC and NCA-based methods, we conduct the following experiment: protein-protein inte raction \(PPI with root shared GO terms ar e investigated from our KUPS  a nually curated PPIs retrieved from IntAct, MINT, and HPRD. We report an interesting finding here. The example is about ribonuclease III activity GO:0004525 binding \(GO:0046872 are shared by root-node mo lecular function \(GO:0003674 We retrieved 53 GPs from UniProt, which contain both GO:0004525 and GO0046872. These GPs are all associated with ‘dicer-like endoribonuclease proteins that cleave the phosphodiester bond within a polynucleotide chain and lead double-stranded RNA \(dsRNA and pre-microRNA \(miRNA into short double-stranded RNA fragments called small interfering RNA \(siRNA\. As e xpected from their names these enzymes share enzyme code \(EC\- which corresponds to ‘ribonuclease’. They also share a cofactor magnesium or manganese’. Apparently, GO:0004525 and GO:0046872 are highly related and should not be considered as nil functional similarity Therefore, IC and NCA-based methods, which always treat r oot-shared GO terms equally are limited in identifying groups of GPs that are functionally similar and have the root node as their NCA In conclusion, while GO DAG is informative for annotating gene/GPs, measuring GO term similarities by using GO structure alone may be limited as we show in this paper Several problems exist such as the evolving nature of GO and the nil functional similarities. The lack of strong correlations between current methods and sequence, structure phylogenetic profile based similarities clearly demands new metrics for term similarity measures. One future direction is to integrate both the GO graph and existing biological knowledge into one single scoring metric. For example, RNASeq and protein structure data ma y provide direct evidence of similarity between two GPs and are complementary to information extracted from GO  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The material is partially based upon work supported by US National Science Foundation award \(IIS-0644366 R EFERENCES  1  M. Ashburner, C. A. Ball, J A. Blake, D. Botstein, H Butler, J. M. Cherry, A. P. Davis, K. Dolinski, S. S Dwight, J. T. Eppig, M. A. Harris, D. P. Hill, L. IsselTarver, A. Kasarskis, S. Le wis, J. C. Matese, J. E Richardson, M. Ringwald, G M. Rubin, and G. Sherlock Gene ontology: tool for the unification of biology. The Gene Ontology Consortium Nat Genet vol. 25, pp. 259, 2000 2  X Chen, M. Liu, and R. Ward, “Protein function assignment through mining ceoss species protein-protein interactions PLoS ONE 3\(2 3  M. Liu, X. Chen, and R. Jothi, “Knowledgeguided in ference of domain-domain interactions from incomplete protein-protein interaction networks Bioniformatics  25\(19 


4  F. M. Couto, M. J Silva, and P. M Coutinho, "Measuring semantic similarity betw een Gene Ontology terms Data Knowledge Engineering vol. 61, pp. 137-152, 2007 5  H. Wu, Z. Su, F. Mao, V. Ol man, Y. Xu, “Prediction of functional modules based on comparative genome analysis and Gene Ontology application Nucleic Acids Res  33 9 6  Y. Cho, W. Hwang, M. Ra manathan, A. Zhang Semantic integration to identify overlapping functional modules in protein interaction networks BMC Bioinformatics  8 265, 2007 7  Y. Tao, L. Sam, J. Li, C. Friedman, Y. Lussier Information theory applied to the sparse gene ontology annotation network to predict novel gene function Bioinformatics  23 13 8  D. Lin, "An Information-Theoretic Definition of Similarity," in In Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on Machine Learning 1998, pp. 296-304 9  P. Resnik, "Using Informa tion Content to Evaluate Semantic Similarity in a Taxonomy In Proceedings of the 14th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence pp. 448-453, 1995 10  A. Schlicker, F. S. Domingue s, J. Rahnenfuhrer, and T Lengauer, "A new measure for functional similarity of gene products based on Gene Ontology BMC Bioinformatics vol. 7, p. 302, 2006 11  A. Schlicker and M. Albrecht, "FunSimMat: a comprehensive functional similarity database Nucleic Acids Res vol. 36, pp. D434-9, Jan 2008 12  R. Gentleman Visualizing and Distances Using GO  http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/vigne ttes/GOstats/inst/doc/GOvis.pdf 2012 13  J. J. Jiang and D. W. Conr ath, "Semantic Similarity Based on Corpus Statistics and Lexical Taxonomy," in International Conference Re search on Computational Linguistics \(ROCLING X 1997, p. 9008 14  P. Ye, B. D. Peyser, X. Pan J. D. Boeke, F. A. Spencer and J. S. Bader, "Gene function prediction from congruent synthetic lethal interactions in yeast Mol Syst Biol vol. 1, p. 2005 0026, 2005 15  P. Lord, R. Stevens, A. Br ass, C. Goble, “Semantic similarity measures as tools for exploring the gene ontology Pac Symp Biocomput 601-612, 2003 16  J. Sevilla, V. Segura, A. P odhorski, E. Guruceaga, J Mato, L. Martinez-Cruz, F. Corrales, A. Rubio Correlation between gene expression and GO semantic similarity IEEE/ACM Trans Comput Biol Bioinform  2 4 17  D. Wilson, R. Pethica, Y. D Zhou, C. Talbot, C. Vogel M. Madera, C. Chothia, a nd J. Gough, "SUPERFAMILYsophisticated comparative genomics, data mining visualization and phylogeny Nucleic Acids Research vol. 37, pp. D380-D386, Jan 2009 18  D. Lee, O. Redfern, and C Orengo, "Predicting protein function from sequence and structure Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol vol. 8, pp. 995-1005, Dec 2007 19  D. Devos and A. Valencia, "Practical limits of function prediction Proteins vol. 41, pp. 98-107, 2000 20  L. Stein, "Genome annot ation: from sequence to biology Nat Rev Genet vol. 2, pp. 493-503, Jul 2001 21  Y. Loewenstein, D. Raim ondo, O. C. Redfern, J Watson, D. Frishman, M. Lini al, C. Orengo, J. Thornton and A. Tramontano, "Protein function annotation by homology-based inference Genome Biol 10, p. 207 2009 22  J. M. Chandonia, G. Hon, N S. Walker, L. Lo Conte, P Koehl, M. Levitt, and S E. Brenner, "The ASTRAL Compendium in 2004 Nucleic Acids Res vol. 32, pp D189-92, Jan 1 2004 23  C. Camacho, G. Coulouris V. Avagyan, N. Ma, J Papadopoulos, K. Bealer, and T. L. Madden, "BLAST architecture and applications BMC Bioinformatics vol 10, p. 421, 2009 24  M. Pellegrini, E. M. Marcotte, M. J. Thompson, D Eisenberg, and T. O. Yeates Assigning protein functions by comparative genome analysis: protein phylogenetic profiles Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A vol. 96, pp. 4285-8 1999 25  C. Chothia and A. M. Lesk, "The Relation between the Divergence of Sequence and Structure in Proteins Embo Journal vol. 5, pp. 823-826, Apr 1986 26  Y. Zhang and J. Skolnick, "T M-align: a protein structure alignment algorithm based on the TM-score Nucleic Acids Res vol. 33, pp. 2302-9, 2005 27  H. Hasegawa and L. Holm, "Advances and pitfalls of protein structural alignment Curr Opin Struct Biol vol 19, pp. 341-8, Jun 2009 28  G. Lerman and B. E. Shakhnovich, "Defining functional distance using manifold em beddings of gene ontology annotations Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A vol. 104, pp 11334-9, Jul 3 2007 29  A. G. Murzin, S. E. Bre nner, T. Hubbard, and C Chothia, "SCOP: a structural classification of proteins database for the investigation of sequences and structures J Mol Biol vol. 247, pp. 536-40, Apr 7 1995 30  B. Rost, "Enzyme function less conserved than anticipated J Mol Biol vol. 318, pp. 595-608, 2002 31  M. Y. Galperin, D. R. Wa lker, and E. V. Koonin Analogous enzymes: independent inventions in enzyme evolution Genome Res vol. 8, pp. 779-90, Aug 1998 32  S. E. Brenner, "Errors in genome annotation Trends Genet vol. 15, pp. 132-3, Apr 1999 33  R. D. Sleator and P. Walsh An overview of in silico protein function prediction Arch Microbiol vol. 192, pp 151-5, Mar 2010 34  T. Consortium, "The Universal Protein Resource UniProt Nucleic Acids Res vol. 38, pp. D1428, Jan 2010 35  X. W. Chen, J. C. Jeong and P. Dermyer, "KUPS constructing datasets of interacting and non-interacting protein pairs with associated attributions Nucleic Acids Res 39\(Database Issue   


  view is fairly wide at 7 373 by 9 373 it is an t ground beacon will be present in the cam e given the uncertainties assumed in the pre d FS detects the laser beacon on the flight computes the centroid location of the bea c the two-axis gimbal to draw the beacon to CCD and minimize future deviations f location. The feedback control system Proportional, Integral, and Derivative \(PI D tuned to ensure adequate tracking perfor m ISS flight profile and platform disturb a transmit and receive optical paths are co-a l optical head, this tracking system enables a of the optical communications signal to the While the Flight System continues trac k b eacon, the laser signal is modulated wit h over the optical channel. The modu continues to loop the video throug h Demonstration to build in robustness to te m cloud obscuration of the signal At the end of the Demonstration period, t h executes a post-Demonstration sequence o f safely powers down the laser and stows Ground System then attempts to reconstruc t on the data collected at the receiver A Day-in-the-Life The OPALS day-in-the-life scenario operations activities required to exec Demonstration. It does not describe planni n Figure 6  C o 7 t icipated that the e ra field of view d ictions. Once the camera CCD, it c on, and actuates the center of the f rom the center is governed by D gains that are m ance given the a nces. Since the l igned within the a ccurate pointing ground receiver k ing the ground h the video data lation sequence h out the entire m porar y fades or h e Flight System f commands that the gimbal. The t the video based describes the ute a nominal n g and scheduling activities, but instead the acti v operations teams on the Demonstr a p ath of the ISS fixes the time of operations activities are driven by the Demonstration start with a s e activities and the need to retrieve shut down the payload with a s e activities. Figure 7 depicts the FS s t exercised during a typical De m activities occurring in, and trans i demonstration state\227which are l time-sequence driven\227all other a c a ground-in-the-loop commanding m The pre-Demonstration activities i n and configuring the major payload gimbal, camera, and laser f Demonstration. The activities beg i 28V Operational Power input to t h p ower source initializes the OPA L flight software into safe state, whic h operation where the hardware and and stable configuration, and restr i FS. While in safe state, the opera t health assessment by analyzing telemetry arriving at 1 Hz. On c confirmed, the FS is commanded i accepts all commands except gim b power commands. While in this st a file uplink of configuration files, s e files that may require an update  o ncept of Operations for a typical Demonstration  v ities executed by the a tion day. Since the orbit Demonstration, OPALS the need to prepare for e t of pre-Demonstration payload data and safely t of pos t Demonstration t ates and state transitions m onstration. Except for i tions to and from, the l argely autonomous and c tivities are performed in m anner n volve safely initializing subsystems, such as the f or the start of the i n with activation of the h e OPALS payload. This L S avionics system and h is defined as a mode of software are in a known i cted commanding to the t ors can perform a quick the Health and Status c e the system health is in to the idle state, which b al movement and laser a te, the operators perform e que n ce files, or pointing  


  8 The transition from idle state to gimbal activity state requires use of a set of critical commands to disable the gimbal safety inhibit. This inhibit prevents inadvertent operation of the laser during external crew or robotic activities by preventing actuation of the gimbal pointing. In order to disable the inhibit, a pair of two commands, one 223arm\224 and one \223fire\224, must be sent in succession to the flight software. Following receipt of these commands, the gimbal can be commanded to move away from the stow position and away from the limit switches that bound the range of motion Upon movement of the gimbal, the Flight System enters gimbal activity state. The primary operations activity within this state is the gimbal calibration, which defines the reference points for each axis. This activity is a sequence of movement commands that drive the gimbal through its full range of motion and establish reference points at the edge of each axis by measuring where the limit switches are actuated. Since the actuators lack encoders, the gimbal can only determine its position by counting commanded steps The transition from gimbal activity state to laser enabled state requires additional critical commands to be sent to the FS to disable the laser safety inhibits. The laser arm/fire critical commands disable the inhibit preventing closure of the 28V power relay to the laser. In order to decentralize the laser activation process for safety purposes, independent commands must be sent from the OPALS MOS and the POIC for 28V power to be routed to the laser. Each of the commands closes an independent power relay along the 28V power path on the FS power board. Once the 28V power is provided to the laser, the FS enters \223laser enabled\224 state The major activities in this state are the powering on of the flight camera and the powering of the flight laser unit to full power. The latter involves activating a 5V power relay to the laser booster, which is controlled by its own inhibit that requires an additional arm/fire command pair to be sent Once these major activities are complete, the FS can be commanded to point toward the first entry in the Blind Pointing Table, at which point, the FS is configured for Demonstration The FS enters demonstration state upon execution of the commence_demo command. Since this transition must be set to occur at a specific time determined by the ISS trajectory, this command will be scheduled in a command sequence. The Flight System restricts all commands during this state except for the abort_safe command to transition the entire payload to safe state, should an anomaly occur The sequence of activities in the demonstration state follows the description in the first part of section 3 The post-Demonstration activities involve safely powering off the laser, driving the gimbal to stow, and re-enabling all inhibits. These activities are accomplished by a post-demo command sequence that executes automatically upon nominal exit of demonstration state. Once all inhibits are  Figure 7: Flight System states diagram 


  enabled, the Flight System is returned to i d begin downlinking  accumulated engin e camera frames from the file system via t Once all products are downlinked and a fin a made, the 28V power is removed from the the Flight System activities. Figure 8 sho w in-the-life timeline which includes so m assumptions about the durations required t o tasks  4  ISS  I NTERFACE  The ISS interface is multifaceted and i n connections, software, and communicati o teams at the various NASA centers. I f interfaces are considered, a number of a s significant influences on a project, directl y throughout its lifecycle may be missed G interface can be thought of as having thre interaction: programmatic, technical, a n remaining of this section provides a disc u them Programmatic Interface For over 11 years, the International Space ISSP\ has continuously maintained a hu m low Earth orbit with constant operation a around the globe.  After 14 years of co visiting vehicles and integration of 390 me t qualified equipment, the ISS is the larg e created in space. Supporting such a m a requires a daunting number of engineers, to thousands In 2011 STS-134 delivered the A Spectrometer to the ISS marking the en d States\222 p rimary assembly phase of the ISS completion the ISSP has undergone a sw e from an assembly centric organization to a one. Supporting this new focus, the ISS P amongst 15 primary offices representing t h expertise. OPALS\222 primary five offices o shown Figure 9 The Research and Integration Office \(OZ h responsibilities for managing and interfaci n like OPALS.  Systems engineers with b r Figure 8: Day-in-thelife activities a r 9 d le state and can e ering logs and t he ISS RF link a l health check is payload, ending w s a typical daym e conservative o perform various n cludes physical o n with all the f only technical s pects that exert y and indirectly G enerally the ISS e e major areas of n d safety. The u ssion of each of Station Program m an presence in al support from nstruction, 140 t ric tons of space e st outpost ever assive operation o taling well in the A lpha Magnetic d of the United Following this e eping transition a payload centric P is now divided h e breadth of ISS o f interactio n are h olds the primary n g with payloads r oad experiences reside within this office to expertl y the rest of the program. On an as-n e and Integration Office has aided d with over 300 individuals across 30 Despite well planned standardizati o human interface between payload is necessary to facilitate the excha n hundreds of engineers and t h specifications Technical Interface The Station\222s massive supporting o support its technical complexit y complexity can amount to 694 across 11 disciplines.  These disci p electrical, command and da t environmental, materials, marking astronaut and software interfaces To both standardize and simplify a connections are provided by a Flig h Mechanism \(FRAM\lighted come in many sizes and varieties cargo or instrument they support Express Pallet Adapter \(ExPA The physical interface occurs i n translation, and operation. The fi OPALS integrated into the trunk o stack ascending to orbit.  The lau n r e scheduled and performed relative to the beginning o Figure 9: Simplified org chart o JSC offices that OPALS has int e points in its lif e y direct payloads through e eded basis, the Research d irect OPALS interaction supporting teams o n and documentation, a d evelopers and the ISSP n ge of information across h ousands of pages of o rganizatio n is scaled to y For payloads, this interface requirements p lines include structural t a handling, thermal maintainability, robotic a ll physical interfaces and h t Releasable Attachment in Figure 10. FRAMs to suit the need of the OPALS has chosen an n three phases: launch rst of these phases has f a Falcon 9 and Dragon n ch on which OPALS is  o f a Demonstration  o f the primary ISS and e racted with at various e cycle 


  manifested will mark the third SpaceX flig h Commercial Resupply \(CRS\tract and m first SpaceX CRS flight extensively red e external cargo.  These modifications inclu d updated Falcon 9 \(v1.1\nd a Drago n providing a suite of launch characteris t vibro-acoustic environmental ones, which characterized.  Since the OPALS Syste m Review \(SRR\ early 2010, the ongoin g of these interfaces has led to a net change o ISS requirements and essentially 100% c h Dragon requirements, including updates deletions Following a successful berth with the IS S phase to OPALS\222 operational destina t Utilizing the capable Mobile Servicing S y the Mobile Berthing System, Special P u Manipulator \(SPDM\d Space S Manipulator System \(SSRMS\ic operators on the ground will extract O berthed Dragon and again mate OPALS\222 F R to a powerp roviding element \(the E n Replacement Unit Temporary Platform o SPDM.  After a nearly two-day roboti c SPDM will again install OPALS onto FRAM, this time at its intended operation a nadir, port side-facing ELC 1 FRAM 8 correctly utilize these robotic componen t Figure 11: OPALS orientatio n 10 h t under NASA\222s m ore notably, the e signed to carry d e a significantly n block upgrade t ics, particularly are not yet fully m Requirements g characterization o f 37% of the 694 h ange of the 117 additions and S the translation t ion can begin y ste m 227including u rpose Dexterous S tation Robotic elements\227ISS PALS from the R AM underbelly n hanced Orbital o r EOTP\ the c translation the another Passive a l location on the Figure 11 t s, 222 interface requirements are provided, the verified by use of a certified s t performed, OPALS will be the firs t type of robotic transfer In the event of a robotic continge n astronauts to intervene and ac c transfer towards final installation o standardized FRAM handholds o n could manipulate OPALS if the n interface is made possible wit implications for OPALS, though o p as orientation and timing, do ex i contingency crew member intera c Figure 10: The FRAM provides a the LV, the robotic arm and th e  n relative to the ISS at its operational location on EL C majority of which are t andard FRAM.  When t payload to undergo this n cy, capabilities exist for c omplish the remaining o f OPALS.  By using the n the ExPA, astronauts n eed were to arise. This h out additional design p erational concerns, such i st.  To implement this c tion, up to 2 weeks of a common interface for e ISS mounting points C 1, FRAM 8 


  unallocated planning would be required Finally, in the third interface phase, the O P installed and ready to operate on its ELC w its full suite of interfaces available. They i n avionics and software interfaces, which operations to commence OPALS will be the first payload installed o Even with a standardized specification means many questions, capabilities, and i addressed for the first time in p arallel w development and in collaboration with I engineers Safety Interface JPL engineers regularly design complex sent far into space never to interact wi t launch.  As a result, the human safety c o OPALS responded to have introduced n e every aspect of the design.   This experie n only learning how to navigate the pro approval from the technical experts on th e Review Panel \(PSRP\ the design, but solve engineering problems from a safety p not compromising technical goals The formal interaction between the pay l such as the OPALS project, and the PSRP series of Flight Safety Reviews \(FSRs  reviews the project and the panel iden t hazards created b y the payload and dec controls to keep those hazards from causi n either personnel or the ISS.   A safety submitted 45 days prior to a formal FSR review and comment. The submission i s presentation and hazard report walk-thro u takes a full day or two as all safety concer n are discussed and addressed The first meeting with the PSRP was a which focused on identifying applicab verifying that the appropriate requirem e referenced.  OPALS started at a time whe Figure 12: OPALS project milestones re l 11 P ALS FS will be w here it will have n clude electrical will enable full o n this new ELC a new interface i ssues have been w ith the OPALS I SS and SpaceX systems that are t h humans after o nsiderations that e w challenges in n ce involved not cess of gaining e Payload Safety also learning to p erspective while l oad developers occurs through a   th es e t ify all potential ide on a set of n g any damage to data package is for the PSRP to s followed by a u gh, which often n s and comments Phase 0 review le hazards and e nts were being n documentation was transitioning from shuttle req u documents so the initial meeting which standards are applicable to t h initial hazard assessment with th e some potential hazards the proj e Additionally, it helped guide th e choices that later could have sno w would have been difficult to progressed toward the more formal OPALS\222 Phase 1 review was s e project\222s PDR and reflected a fair time leading up to this review the p class 4 laser that required the h classification \(catastrophic\and i controls for all possible operation a the safety review OPALS discuss e with various members of the PRS P design approaches for controls r hazards from actualizing.  These meetings were essential leading i n the design then required minimal c h 1 review. This preparation had t h developing a strong relationship b members and the OPALS team The Phase 2 review typically fol l Design Review \(CDR\OPAL S formal technical interchange meeti n to review its hazards and solid i method of controlling them. With identified and most of the contro l debate, the Phase 2 review covere d testing and the supporting doc u p articularly strong focus on veri avionics and the hazard controls computer system controls a haz a Control System \(CBCS\trix m outlines the requirements for that meets the requirements, and the demonstrate complian h e into the high-level software archite level registers and memory man a reviewed by the Computer Safety l ative to the safety milestones outlined in NSTS 13830 and Data Submittal Requirements u irements to ISS-specific focused on establishing h e OPALS payload.   The e PSRP helped identify e c t had not considered e project\222s early design w balled into hazards that change as the design Phase 1 review e veral months after the l y mature design. In the p rojec t settled on using a h ighest level of hazard i dentified a number of a l scenarios.   Going into e d these choices in depth P to identify options and r equired to prevent the earlier discussions and n to the formal review as h anges to pass the Phase h e additional benefit of b etwee n the safety panel l ows a projec t 222s Critical S however, requested a n g \(TIM\with the PSRP i fy concurrence on the the hazard sources well l s requi r ing little further d the details of hardware u mentation and had a fication of the OPALS it governs.   When a a rd, a Computer Based m ust be developed that syste m the design that verifications planned to completed matrix delves cture as well as the lowa gement. This system is Panel \(CSP\ and if the Payload Safety Review 


  12 panel chair agrees with the approach he or she recommends it for approval to the PSRP. After many tweaks and focused discussion outside of the full PSRP the OPALS CBCS matrix was approved for Phase 2 As Phase 3 approaches, all agreed-to verifications of hazard controls must be performed, documented, and submitted Any deviations from the agreed-to verifications must be documented and approved by members of the PSRP In addition to the Flight Safety Reviews \(FSRs\und Safety Review schedule is also negotiated and a package is submitted.  This process is very similar to the PSRP one, but the scope of the hazards is limited to ground operations at the launch and processing facilities The key to successfully passing the FSRs has been constant early, and open communication with the PSRP. It has allowed for the quick identification of hazards and it has prevented the project from locking itself into designs that either could have adversely impacted safety or could have made compliance significantly more difficult. The PSRP and everyone involved in the safety side of the interface have shown great flexibility in allowing OPALS design freedom to ensure its mission success while enforcing a high standard for the safety of the ISS and those inhabiting it 5  D RIVERS   C ONSTRAINTS  AND R ESULTING I MPLEMENTATION  OPALS is no exception when it comes to facing the typical challenges that most space flight projects have to overcome throughout their lifecycle. Cost and schedule always seem insufficient. The workforce is sometimes stretched thin. All these challenges create constraints, end up driving the decision-making process and inescapably shape the final product. There are, however, many aspects that set OPALS apart from the average space borne instrument, and they too came with their own drivers and constraints Overall, the drivers and constraints can be classified as internal and external, with each category further divided into process- or technically-flavored This section is dedicated to examples, spanning each of those categories, of drivers and constraints that have in one way or another influenced the implementation of the project Internal, Process-Derived Drivers and Constraints The aspects falling under this section refer to those whose common denominator is the internally-mandated JPL process. The most influential and prevailing of these processes are documented in the JPL Design Principles and JPL Flight Project Practices. These documents provide guidelines on everything from cost, schedule reserves and technical margins to the pedigree of the parts and components used by the flight article and the level of documentation required Class D 227The biggest impact on the project, second only to the stringent cost cap, was the decision to implement it as a Class D payload risk classification per NASA NPR 8705.4 This decision was less of a constraint than it was a driver and it ultimately gave the project more flexibility in making decisions. The ramifications of this decision are many including the risk posture of the project in parts selection sparing philosophy, hardware handling requirements qualification program, fault protection, and extent of formal verification of requirements Early on in its lifecycle, the project sought to define the Class D implementation approach within the guidelines set by NASA procedural requirements. Specifically the project was allowed to 200  Build one proto-flight model with limited engineering models \(EMs\he only subsystem to have a full EM is the avionics. Other EMs include the acquisition camera one motor driver, and the in-house developed power board 200  Limit parts sparing to long-lead items only. The project only purchased one spare actuator and a few of the avionics cards. There are no spares for the laser, power board, camera, or any structural components 200  Use COTS hardware wherever possible. This aspect is discussed in further detail in a subsequent section 200  Forgo radiation or parts support. The extensive usage of COTS components implies, to a large extent, the absence of radiation susceptibility data, along with other environmental information. Thus, as early as the Mission Concept Review, the project and its stakeholders have accepted the potential missionending risk of unrecoverable single event upsets 200  Limit hardware and software Quality Assurance prior to system level integration and test. Typically, HQA/SQA involvement begins early in subsystem development well in advance of system I&T 200  Limit flight tech support to final torqueing and high risk procedures. The philosophy here is similar to the HQA/SQA involvement Requirements and V&V\227 Likely the most unglamorous aspect of producing a space-wo rthy payload is developing the set of requirements that govern its function and behavior. While Class-D status does not give the project a pass on developing requirements, it can shape the way the process is conducted and the extent to which requirements are developed For example, higher-class projects typically develop requirements down to level five or six, and bin them in dozens, if not hundreds of sets or modules. By contrast OPALS currently only has 782 requirements spread over 33 modules, with none of them containing more than 105 items. Of the 694 ISS requirements only 376 are applicable to OPALS, accounting for 48% of the total OPALS set Similarly, of the 117 launch vehicle requirements, only 58 are levied on OPALS. This means that the project has only 


  348 project-specific requirements that it in t verify. Figure 13 breaks down the requirements, including ISS and launc h residing at the various levels OPALS, however, is no poster child f development as it fell into the same trap t h projects\227regardless of size and risk verification and validation \(V&V\ time: it unnecessary requirements At CDR time OPALS realized that requirements it was signing up to verify d and testing, totaling almost 1300 \(796 OP A LV\, had become unmanageable give n schedule and cost-to-go. Shortly there a embarked on a months-long, projectevaluating its requirement set with the go a down to those that it couldn\222t justify not ve r By the time the Test Readiness Review c a later, the project had achieved an overall r Table 2\n the number of items it dee m verification Once again leveraging its Class D status from JPL management, the project decided 796 requirements it had written on itself 227 the ISS and launch vehicle ones\227 p rovide d others when it came to verification D explicitly verify a requirement meant one o f 1  The statement was deemed to be, in of a requirement and more of proced u on how something was to be done less of an instruction on how well s work and more of a documentatio n Without engaging in a detailed sem a the project changed the status of thes e requirement to policy. This meant t h still had to be implemented, but it di formally verified Figure 13: Two-thirds of the 782 OPAL S reside at the level 4 FS subsystem level the ISS and launch vehicle requi r 13 t ends to formally distribution of h vehicle ones f or requirements h at cripples many posture\227come developed many the number of d uring integration A LS + 529 ISS n the remaining a fter, the team wide effort of a l of trimming it r ifying explicitly a me nine months r eduction of 37 m ed important for and with bu y in that some of the 227 which excludes d less value than D eciding not to f two things some cases, less u ral specification while in others omething had to n on the design a ntics discussion e statements from h at the statement i d not have to be 2  The statement remained a r e not be explicitly verified at t written as the state-ofp r a Instead, its verification wou l parent at a higher level was order for a requirement to be a higher level it had to meet o criteria 200  It is enveloped by a larg e at a higher level; e.g flowdown, such as mass 200  Functionality/performan c higher level test\(s\ A N requirement will be app level tests. Put another cannot be verified at a h i meet that requirement w o in higher level test, the n requirement cannot be m o This process was a very time-int e number of individuals on the te thought to have saved the project a s and money in Phase D when the m a takes place There were, however, two excepti o applied to externally-levied IS S requirements, and those requirem e safety standards to be followed It is important to point out that the 421 requirements which were e v verification via this process shoul d but rather that the mission risk o f  one the project was willing t o underperformance of the system higher level testing. In doing so h had to accept an increased cost p roblems that might have been ca u caught until later during syste m significantly more expensive to fix S requirements These include r ements Table 2: Reduction achieved bet w number of requirements needi n Set  CDR  L1  1  L2 \(all  283  L3 \(all  216  L4 GS  66  L4 FS IRDs  158  L4 FS STR  188  L4 FS FSW  167  L4 FS Other  218  OPALS TOTAL  1296  ISS Total  468  LV Total  59  e quirement, but it would t he level at which it was a ctice usually dictates d become implicit if its successfully verified. In allowed to be verified at o ne of the following two e r \221capstone\222 requirement part of an allocation pointing budgets e can be rolled into N D failure to meet the arent in higher, syste m way, if a requirement i gher level OR failure to o uld not become apparent n the verification of that o ved to a higher level e nsive one for a limited am, but it is generally s a whole significant time a jority of the V&V effort o ns to this process which S and launch vehicle e nts which specified the argument is not that the v entually descoped from d not have been written f not verifying them was o accep t because any would be identified in h owever, the project also and schedule risk that u ght earlier, would not be m I&T when they are  w een CDR and TRR in n g explicit verification TRR  Change  1  0  230  19  138  36  28  58  61  61  101  46  109  35  158  28  823  37  411  12  39  34  


  Internal, TechnicallyD erived Drivers and C Equally instrumental in shaping the outco m were those decisions that were driven b aspects over which the project had decisio n In the same way that certain policy de c subsequent ones \(see Class D\ techni c a cascading effect throughout the design, p a Flight System COTS Usage\227 The most clear and pervas i the decision to utilize COTS parts whereve of the early conceptual architecture and des i was inherited from aircraftb orne syste m operated by JPL as recently as 2011.  In a n cost and complexity, the use of COTS c considered an attract ive option for the avio n risk of latent failure and unfamiliarity w i was essentially traded against the extrem e short lead times made possible by orderin g While the FS would evolve over time t o custom JPLb uilt boards and compon e implementation has left an indelible mark o n Traditional spacecraft and instrument elect r on strong conductive coupling to a temp e interface to maintain safe operat i Ruggedization is also common practi reliability in the vibration- and r a environments of launch and low-Ear t p ractices, however, are often impractical o r with COTS avionics, where the cost o ruggedizing for flight would surely dwar f components themselves. The OP A implementation, for example, comprises a and electrical components that are desi g forced-convection cooling in a r o environment. They have relatively little or Figure 14: Cross-sectional view of fligh t container showing arrangement of c 14 C onstraints m e of the project b y the technical n making control c isions impacted c al decisions had a rticularly for the i ve example was e r possible. Much i gn of the project m s designed and n effort to reduce c omponents was nics design \226 the i th the hardware e ly low cost and g 223off-the-shelf.\224 o include several e nts, the COTS n the FS design r onics boxes rely e rature-controlled i ng conditions ce to improve a diation-intensive t h orbit. These r even impossible o f modifying or f the cost of the A LS avionics series of boards g ned to receive o o m temperature no tolerance for extreme temperature, humidity, o r thus present significant technical c thermal control The ISS in particular poses an ad d and constraints owing to the n a payloads are installed and opera t docking at the ISS, OPALS is rem o SpaceX Dragon trunk.  During thi s p oints throughout the subsequent r o attach site on ELC1, the FS must a loss of power for up to six h architecture is therefore built maintaining a \223laboratory envi operations.  The flight avionics su b critical components like the l a distribution circuitry, is conta i cylindrical enclosure that maintai n environment throughout the nomin a highlighted in Figure 14, 120mm D found in everyday desktop compu t the air across the avionics compon e heat exchanger assembly.  By rec fashion, waste heat is transferre d avionics boards and components, t h and into the heat exchanger where i external radiator.  Further, the loss from a loss of electrical power to effective means of insulating the loss during said periods \226 gas c dominant, though negligible, mod e microgravity environment p rovi d natural convection The decoupling of heat transfer structural interfaces renders stan d finite volume heat transfer c necessitates an iterative anal y CAD/CAE and computational flui d to solve for characteristics of the fl u of the OPALS avionics enclosure  envisioned a cuboid structure wit h heated air from the electronics assembly.  Early rounds of CFD a n unacceptable pressure losses in t h turning and relatively narrow cro s the duct.  Over time, the iterate d streamline the flow path, result i b etween the fans and heat exchan cable routing to eliminate as ma n main flow path as possible. This i t results in a design that is com p cheaper to analyze, as well as more build. Figure 16 shows a velocity final design The relatively severe vibration e launch vehicle posed yet another avionics \226 most of which do  t system sealed c omponents r vacuum operation, and hallenges in maintaining d itional set of challenges a ture in which external t ed.  Upon arrival and o ved robotically from the s process, and at various o botic transfer to its final a ccommodate a complete h ours. The OPALS FS around creating and r onment\224 for nominal b system, along with other a ser diode and power i ned within a sealed n s a 1-atmosphere \(STP a l life of the payload.  As D C fans, not unlike those t ers, drive circulation of e nts and through a ducted irculating the air in this d convectively from the h rough the air mass flow i t is then conducted to an of circulation that resul t s the payload provides an flight system from heat c onduction becomes the e of heat transfer, as the d es no mechanism for paths from traditional d ard finite element and c odes ineffective, and y sis process between d dynamics \(CFD u id flow.  Early concepts  Figure 15\or example h a long duct to transfer to the heat exchanger n alysis, however, showed h e flow due to repeated s s-sectional areas within d design has evolved to i ng in a single \223turn\224 g er, and optimization of n y obstr u ctions from the t erative process naturally p utationally simpler and practical to fabricate and map of fluid flow in the e nvironment within the challenge for the COTS not even ship with a 


  15 manufacturer specification for vibration tolerance.  To deal with this issue, the rigid tray assembly that houses the avionics and fans is mounted on a system of wire-rope isolators designed to dampen random vibrations within the specific frequency spectra produced by the launch vehicle These isolators protect delicate solder joints and other nonrugged components from being torn apart by launch loads Further, in much the same way as the loss of circulation during power outages provides a natural means of insulation against heat loss, the wire rope isolator system\222s poor thermal conductivity also impedes conduction to the outer structure of the sealed container External, Process-Derived Drivers and Constraints While many decisions were internally motivated by the JPL processes and the OPALS paradigm, a significant number also came via the ISS and launch vehicle interfaces, both programmatically and technically As one might anticipate, the ISS interface in particular impacted the OPALS day-to-day operations as well as the design features it implemented. The most clear example of this aspect came via the over 400 requirements imposed by the ISS program on the OPALS payload, followed by the V&V process mandated to demonstrate compliance Requirements 227As one of the first payloads to negotiate both the ISS and Dragon interfaces, OPALS has been routinely involved in technical changes beginning and ending with its interface requirements.  A considerable ongoing effort within OPALS and its partners has been to solidify the understanding of the requirements levied When OPALS began in 2009, the Dragon had neither flown nor been fully designed.  This was best represented in the miniscule 16 provided requirements that were largely placeholders for what would  become the Dragon\222s interface specification.  At that point, expectations were that OPALS would be completed well before its Dragon flight. This schedule disconnect led to a considerable technical disconnect In order to proceed with OPALS development despite the lack of a full set of design requirements assumptions had to be made in three key areas: power, connectivity, and the launch environment.  The first question of power came about for an obvious reason: OPALS has thermally sensitive optics and commercial equipment, and these components need heater power to be kept warm in space.  Without requirements on Dragon power provisions, the project\222s first assumption was that the thermal control hardware designed for the on-orbit ISS environment would also prove valid during a Dragon ascent.  After exhaustive integrated thermal analysis, this assumption, and the resulting engineering implementation, has proven to be valid, and an additional 12 pages of requirements and supporting data now reflect this interface design After requirements were negotiated and an agreement was reached to provide sufficient thermal power during ascent the question remained of how this power would be routed into the OPALS payload.  To direct the efforts towards a solution of connectivity, OPALS turned to the JAXA H-II Transfer Vehicle \(HTV\d Space Shuttle designs that powered FRAM-based payloads similar to OPALS.  These additional carrier requirements allowed several connectivity options and it was thus taken to be a valid assumption that the Dragon team could design around OPALS\222 desired cabling pin assignments.  The OPALS design was thus submitted to SpaceX and, as this was the first request for a specific option, the OPALS connectivity solution has become the primary power distribution option amongst external Dragon cargo requirements The project\222s greatest challenge, however, was the need to design the FS prior to receiving any validated launch  Figure 15: Early design of the sealed container did not optimize component pl acement or airflow  Figure 16: CFD analysis led to a new component layout that allowed for more efficient heat removal 


  16 loading requirements.  To address this, OPALS began with JPL and NASA\222s extensive historical data on expected launch loads, amended with ample margin and overlaid with standard levels on workmanship. The resulting crude spectrum was then supplied to the ISS and SpaceX dynamics teams who over the course of several months helped refine test plans to a conservative but agreeable level, which again proved to be valid \(and indeed conservative\via integrated analysis and testing. At the time of this writing OPALS had successfully completed vibration testing Lastly, the project has dealt with the uncertainty that comes via requirements variability from the ISS interface. Since OPALS began, 37% of the 694 ISS interface requirements have changed. Even though only 376 of them are applicable to OPALS, the project has had to maintain cognizance in this regard over the full set.  Despite the fact that the ISS is an operational facility and many components have been flying in orbit for several years, both OPALS and the ISSP are still learning about the function and performance of these components.  As such, there have been ample updates to the electrical and robotic interface requirement segments These requirement changes are executed methodically in a thoroughly reviewed manner.  After internal ISS coordination, pending requirement updates are quickly disseminated amongst payload developers.  After external review by existing and prospective payloads, signatures are requested and requirements are enacted V&V 227Verification and Validation includes the final work done to certify both that the payload meets the word of the requirements, and that it performs the intended function 55% of OPALS\222 requirements to be verified are provided by its external interfaces, including the ISS and Dragon Though verified along with all other project requirements these interface requirements demand a different balance of focus.  As these requirements are provided by external entities they are managed outside of JPL and subject to external verification.  OPALS, therefore, has no formal validation program for these requirements beyond ongoing interface systems engineering diligence.  While this externalized approach minimizes internal efforts, it simultaneously increases verification  overhead Verification of each external interface requirement falls under the cognizance of an external Discipline Engineer DE\d the OPALS verification program is built around this external approval process, which is diagramed in Figure 17.  These external engineers represent the external hardware expertise necessary to ultimately understand validate and approve all interactions with their hardware.  It is important to note that these engineers support a multitude of projects across geographic boundaries, and their ability to provide dedicated attention to OPALS is attenuated by the breath of the projects they support Internal to OPALS, an abundance of verification data is generated for these DEs in the verification of the 452 external requirements.  The planning, technical coordination, and direction of this work is coordinated between the OPALS External Interface Engineer and the cognizant engineers within OPALS. As data and plans have been generated over years of interaction among these organizations, it is incumbent upon the EIE to ensure internal consistency and remedy problems across evolving interfaces External, Technically-Derived Drivers and Constraints The ISS-imposed requirements provide the specification for the physical interface to the station, and, via the PSRP process, also provide direction on meeting the safety considerations that come with the Class A status of the ISS This section will highlight how technical specifications from the ISS impacted aspects of the OPALS design Mass & Power Budgets 227Most payloads will find the ISS allocation for mass and 28V operational power to be quite generous at 490 lbs. \(excluding the top half of the FRAM\227 the ExPA plate\d 504 watts, respectively. The ISS also provides 750 watts on a 120V operational line and an additional 300 watts of power on a 120V heater line Expected to come in under 400 lbs., OPALS fits well within its mass allocation. In fact, at no point in its development did the OPALS mass margin\227calculated as \(AllocationCBE\llocation\227fall below 15%, and since CDR it has been hovering around 30%. The 28V ops power margin has been even more generous, hovering at or above 60% for much of the projects lifecycle, while the 120V ops and 120V heater lines have seen equally generous margins of over 60% and 70 %, respectively In space, mass and power are drivers more often than not For OPALS the opposite has been the case, to the point where the excess allocations has been used to solve problems in other areas. One such example has been the  Figure 17:  The OPALS ISS requirement verification process is built around th e ISS approval process 


  design of our gimbal. At nearly 70 lbs., th e to be severely overdesigned for the 3 lb supports. However, the need for such a b forced by the early selection of the actuat o long-lead items and had to be large enou g the optical head in the absence of launch lo time, by the yet unknown design of the opt under certain configurations, could have b e lbs. Knowing that mass would likely not p roject was thus able to save cost by avo the mass of the gimbal while at t accommodating an unknown optical hea d lack of launch locks The power draw of the electronics was concern since one of the benefits of havin g is that their power draw is well known a n fluctuate greatly over time. If there was o n p ower draw required more active manage m 120V heater line which is shared by the IS S launch vehicle, of which the latter had si stringent and fluctuating requirements Designing to a Class A Interface 227Of all t h interface, the safety-related ones likely impact on the OPALS design. There are features that owe their existence to the nee d the two-fault tolerant design against cat a mandated by the PSRP. The payload h a combination of three hardware and softwar each of the two catastrophic hazards that w e the inadvertent usage of the 2.5 watt clas s shining the laser outside of its approved a r The hardstops limiting the travel of each a x constitute two of the inhibits required to pr e Via a negotiation process with the PSRP, t h upon the area around the ISS where it wo u Figure 18: OPALS Field of Regard \(red  Motion \(yellow\ver the O C station 17 e gimbal appears optical head it b eefy design was o rs\227which  were g h to immobilize cks\227and, at that ical head, which e en well over 10 be an issue, the iding optimizing t he same time d design and the even less of a g COTS avionics n d is unlikely to n e area where the m ent was on the S and the SpaceX gnificantly more h e aspects of the had the largest a number of FS d to comply with a strophic failures a d to include a e inhibits against e re identified: \(1 s 4 laser, and \(2 r ea of operations x is of the gimbal e vent the latter h e project agreed u ld be allowed to p oint the laser, referred to as the From this not-to-exceed area, the p allocation to allow for uncertai manufacturing. Using these derate gimbal to keep the laser within Figure 18\ela t nadir\he ROM extends from a p in the gimbal azimuth axis  approximately 1 373 to 38 373 in the crosstrack\erally speaking range limits the length of each pas s while the size of the elevation frequently a pass occurs. This is mission success is at odds with m yield to it. Were it not for the ne e operation of the laser due to safet y would have enjoyed longer and m o improving its chances of meeting it s In addition to the hardstops, meeti n mandate requires that the des i microswitches, two relays, soft w p rotection, and operational const r with the Huntsville Operations Sup p and function of these inhibits were d MOS Interface 227The main drive r implementation was the availabili t operations tools, processes, and in fr payloads. Although drivers are so m negative impact on development opposite was true. The OPALS leverage existing capabilities as mu development of new tools and proc e Several remote operations tools ar e from MSFC and JSC for telemet r management, schedule viewing, tel e over-IP. Table 3 details the a v function. The OPALS MOS has i tools with only a minor amou n required. Given the wide array of t responsibilities of OPALS MOS simplified to development of the ephemeris processing, generati o generation of telemetry and comm a decision-making and execution  analysis In addition to tools, OPALS has al s great deal in the area of operati o depicts the interface support pr o Marshall Space Flight Center and Directorate \(MOD\e Johnso n  general, MOD handles the overall with tasks including crew operat i orbital reboosts, docking activiti e MOD defines its interface with O P Rules that govern power, attitu d restrictions on payload activity T   and Range of C TL ground Field of Regard \(FOR r oject further derated the n ties in modeling and d values it designed the the expected Range of t ive to the ISS +Z axis p proximately -34 373 to +73 373   alongtrack\d from gimbal elevation axis the size of the azimuth s over the ground station range determines how a clear example of how m ission safety and must e d to restrict the area of y considerations, OPALS o re frequent passes, thus s level one requirement  n g the two-fault tolerance i gn also include four w are ar m fire command r aints to be coordinated p ort Center. The purpose d iscussed in sectio n 3  r for the OPALS MOS t y of significant existing fr astructure for ISS-based m etimes seen as having a in this case quite the MOS has attempted to u ch as possible to avoid e sses and thus save cost e available free of charge r y processing, command e metry query, and voicev ailable tools and their i ncorporated all of these n t of tool configuration t ools available, the prime development has been operations concept, ISS o n of file products a nd databases, operations  and troubleshooting s o been able to leverage a o ns processes. Figure 19 o vided by the POIC at the Mission Operations Space Flight Cente r In ISS platform operations i ons, robotic operations e s, and attitude control P ALS via a set of Flight d e, trajectory, and crew T he POIC, on the other 


  hand, provides the infrastructure to commands and file products to the paylo a infrastructure to receive and relay real-tim e the payload. The agreements between the POIC to ensure proper operation, m monitoring of the payload are docume n Regulations. In addition, the POIC maintai n p rocess for planning payload activities a n those activities into the larger ISS schedule Activity planning and scheduling begins 8 launch and continues up to 7 days before t h it is included in the ISS Short Term Pl OPALS operations are time critica l commanding by members of the POIC O will be designated with priority over activities in the STP. During real-time Payload Operations Director at the PO I interface for the OPALS payload and provi d inputs for activity coordination with t h Director. The expectations of the payload d it will provide a clear set of science object i set of data and planning requirements need e those objectives. For OPALS, these documented in the OPALS Ops Conce p delivered to the POIC and MOD 18 mo n anticipated launch date. It is also expected operations team will submit a formal t r participate in training exercises with the P other ISS payloads. The POIC offers two f l activities: scenario training and simulation t Scenario training exercises MOS execu t specific processes while simulation trainin g familiarity with ISS interfaces, coordinatio n MOD entities, and decision-making in t h anomalies. The scenario activity resembles operational readiness test \(ORT\ in Table 3: Existing operations t o Tool Operations F Telescience Resource Kit \(TReK Telemetry Proc e Telemetry Disp l Telemetry Data b Command Man a Command Data b Enhanced HOSC System \(EHS Telemetry Que r Database Sync h HOSC Networ k Internet Voice-over-IP IVoDS Voice Loops Payload Information Management System PIMS File Transfer Operations Cha n On-board Short Term Plan Viewer \(OSTPV ISS Schedule V 18 relay real-time a d as well as the e telemetry from payload and the m aintenance, and n ted as Payload n s a well-defined n d incorporating  8 months before h e activity, when an \(STP\ince l and require O PALS activities conflicting ISS operations, the I C is the prime d es the necessary h e MOD Flight d eveloper are that i ves along with a ed to accomplish prod u cts were p t document and n ths prior to the that the payload r aining plan and P OIC, MOD, and l avors of training t raining t ion of payloadg exercises MOS n with POIC and h e event of ISS what is called an the JPL flight development process, while the si m to the ISS program due to the diversity of the ISSP interfaces. F members are available on conso l OPALS MOS in a flight-like oper a role of the Flight MOS and Grou n react appropriately to nominal and relayed by the POIC over the voic e expected to obey all Flight Rules a in the execution of their acti v p roficiency with all operations pr o OPALS and external \(e.g. ISS 6  C ONCLUS I The development of the flight payl o two factors: \(1\ interfacing with th e sense and a programmatic one, an d as a Class D risk classification payl o The ISS physical interface provide d but one that was greatly facilit a standardized FRAM and by the g e allocations. The latter have afford e flexibility in making design decis i the expense of the still generous m a Operating on the ISS also mean t facility and of the astronauts it ho s all other considerations. As such O in a series of inhibits to provide t w catastrophic hazards identified despite being a Class D payloa d typically affords significantly mo r project\222s risk posture for mission s u on safety. The ISS-driven pro c scrutinizes this aspect can be d a navigate it, projects need to pla n significant impacts in both tech n areas, while keeping in close c PSRP The internal decision to implemen t p ayload also had significant impli c led to the widespread use of CO T o ols F unctions e ssing l ay b ase Build a gement b ase Build r y h ronization k Access n ge Requests iewer Figure 19: OPALS cross-agenc y m ulation activity is unique sheer complexity and or both exercises, POIC l e to interface with the a tional environment.  The n d MOS teams will be to off-nominal notifications e loop. The teams will be a nd Payload Regulations v ities and demonstrate o cesses, both internal to I ONS  o ad was largely driven by e ISS, both in a physical d 2\ng implemented o ad d a significant constraint a ted by the use of the e nerous mass and power e d the project significant i ons that reduced cost at a ss and power margins t that the safety of the s ts took precedence over O PALS has had to design w o fault tolerance for all This limitation comes d a classification which r e latitude in defining a u ccess but has no bearing c ess that oversees and a unting. To successfully n and accommodate for n ical and programmatic ommunication with the t the project as a Class D c ations for the design. It S components, which in  y operations interfaces 


  19 turn lead to a design that required forced convective cooling and vibration dampening, both uncommon for modern-day space payloads. Furthermore, it allowed the project flexibility in tailoring its verification and validation program for non-ISS requirements to save cost and schedule The focus of space-borne instruments is usually on the flight articles, which in the case of OPALS is the FRAM-based payload to be externally installed on the ISS. However most, if not all, projects must also develop a ground infrastructure to support the operations of the flight asset For OPALS, despite being more akin to an instrument than a spacecraft, that was certainly the case as significant development was required for both the optical ground station to enable the transmissi on of a beacon and receipt of the optical downlink for the former, and for the MOS to support commanding and telemetry The use of the OCTL facility in California greatly reduced the amount of development required to receive and process the optical downlink, and to transmit the beacon needed by the FS to locate the ground station. The development was thus restricted to the optics needed to condition the light beam for processing by the hardware receiver and the software decoder The design of the MOS was, by and large, dictated by the interface to the ISS\222s expansive payloads operations infrastructure located at Ma rshall Space Flight Center Because the interface was already mature and well understood, the project\222s efforts were primarily focused on ensuring compatibility rather than developing its own capability. The savings afforded by leveraging the existence of the already operating infrastructure cannot be understated A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The authors express their gratitude to the entire OPALS team for their dedication and hard work, and to the mentors that have guided the team on a path to success. The authors acknowledge all of the OPALS team members, whose technical contributions made the writing of the paper possible.   The work described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES    J  C e s a r o n e  D  S   A b ra h a m s  S  S h am b a y a ti  a n d J   Rush, \223Deep space communications, visions trends and prospects,\224  In Proc. Int. Conf. Space Opt. Syst. Appl  Santa Monica, CA, May 11\22613, 2011, pp. 412\226425  m ati 223 S pecial s ec tion guest editorial: free space optical communications.\224 Opt. Eng 0001 51\(3\031201-1-031201-1 doi:10.1117/1.OE.51.3.031201 3 Hen n i g er, an d O. W ilf ert A n i n tro d u ctio n to f r ee space optical communications Radioengineering 19.2 pp. 203-212, 2010 4 Risk Classification for NASA Payloads NASA Procedural Requirements NPR 8705.4, 2008  P h aeton Early C a reer Hire Dev e lop m ent P r og ram  R. M Jones, J. Lim. 2012. Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology. 19 Oct. 2012 http://phaeton.jpl.nasa.gov/internal/index.cfm 6 ard  B  So lish  M. Seib ert, K. Kilb rid e  S. Do n g   and T. Coffee. \223Bridging the Generation Gap : A Rapid Early Career Hire Training Program,\224 in AIAA Space 2008 Conference pp. 1-13   B i s w a s H. He mm ati S. P i azzolla, B  Mois ion  K  Birnbaum, and K. Quirk, \223Deep-space Optical Terminals DOT\ms Engineering.\224 IPN Progress Rep. 42183. Nov. 15, 2010  Hem m a ti A B i s w as I.B D j o r d j ev ic  D eepS pace Optical Communications: Future Perspectives and Applications," in Proceedings of the IEEE  vol.99 no.11, 2011, pp.2020-2039 9 Lucke, Robert L., et al. "Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean: instrument description and first images Applied Optics 50.11 \(2011\ 1501-1516 10 M  C o r s o n  D  K o r w a n  R  L u c k e  W  S n y d e r  C   Davis, "The Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean HICO\ the International Space Station," in IGARSS 2008 pp.IV-101-IV-104  T e les c ien ce R e s o u r ce K i t J. Onken. 2012. Marshall Space Flight Center. <http://trek.msfc.nasa.gov 12  Payload Safety Review and Data Submittal Requirements National Space Transportation System NSTS 13830, 1998 13 Computer-Based Control System Safety Requirements  Space Station Program SSP 50038, 1995 B IOGRAPHIES  Bogdan Oaida is the Project Systems Engineer for OPALS. He received a B.S.E. in Aerospace Engineering in 2007 and a M.Eng in Space Engineering in 2008, both from The University of Michigan. Since joining JPL in 2008, Bogdan has also worked on a number of Earth-sensing mission proposals and has participated in several TeamX studies JPL\222s concurrent engineering environment 


  Matt Abrahamson i s Operations Lead for received a B.S E ngineering With Technology in 2006 a A eronautics and Astro n both from MIT. He L aboratory Fellow from since joining J PL has worked on flight o p EPOXI, Stardust-NExT, Juno, and Daw n mission navigator  Robert Witoff is the I S Systems Engineer for received a B.S E ngineering from the Colorado at Boulder i p ursuing a Masters in S o E ngineering at Stanford A pigy Inc, Robert joine d has additionally worked on the Daw n Interplanetary missions J essica Bowles Martin e and Mission Assuranc e OPALS. She receive d  E lectrical Engineering Science and B.S. in Co m Studies in 2003 at th e I nstitute of Technolog y earned a M.Eng in Elec Engineering from Johns Hopkins Universi t J PL in 2008, she has held various ro l radiation testing for Juno, research in N A Parts Packaging program, and an ISS b a assembled telescope project  Daniel Zayas is the T h both OPALS and t h L aboratory, a planne d Condensate experime n I nternational Space received B.S. degrees E ngineering and Physic s A erospace Engineerin g M assachusetts Institute of Technology.  H e contributed to a number of planetary m including JUNO and the Mars Science L a Curiosity   20 s the Mission OPALS. He in Aerospace Information a nd a M.S. in n autics in 2008 was a Draper 2006-2008 and p erations for the n projects as a S S and Dragon OPALS.  He in Aerospace University of i n 2009 and is o ftware Systems  After founding d JPL where he n and Rosetta e z is the Safety e Manager for d a B.S.E. in and Computer m parative Media e Massachusetts y In 2006 she trical Computer t y. After joining l es working on A SAs Electronic a sed robotically h ermal Lead for h e Cold Atom d Bose-Einstein n t aboard the Station.  He in Aerospace s and a M.S. in g all from the e has previously m issions at JPL a boratory rover 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Initial Analysis Activities Flights departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving within a date and time range Flights between city pair A,B Flights between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a volume on a date. \(sector, center, etc boundary Flights passing through a volume within a date and time range Flights passing through an airspace volume in n-minute intervals All x-type aircraft departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving on a date between city pair A,B Flights departing or arriving on a date between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a named fix, airway, center, or sector Filed Flight plans for any of the above Actual departure, arrival times and actual track reports for any of the above 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial SPSS Applications Show all tracks by call sign 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case For a given Airspace Volume of Interest \(AVOI compute distinct traffic volume at some point in the future  Aim to alert on congestion due to flow control areas or weather if certain thresholds are exceeded  Prescribe solution \(if certain thresholds are exceeded Propose alternate flight paths  Use pre-built predictive model  SPSS Modeler performs data processing Counts relevant records in the database \(pattern discovery Computes traffic volume using statistical models on descriptive pattern Returns prediction with likelihood 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  24 Pulls in the TRACKINFO table of MAIN using SQL Limits the data to database entries which fall inside the AVOI Combines the SOURCE_DATE and SOURCE_TIME to a timestamp that can be understood by modeler Computes which time interval the database entry falls in. The time interval is 15 minutes Defines the target and input fields needed for creating the model Handles the creation of the model Produces a graph based off of the model results Final prediction 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Cognos BI Applications IBM Cognos Report Studio  Web application for creating reports  Can be tailored by date range, aircraft id, departure/arrival airport etc  Reports are available with links to visuals IBM Framework Manager  Used to create the data package  Meta-data modeling tool  Users can define data sources, and relationships among them Models can be exported to a package for use with Report Studio 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 1 of 3 Report shows the departure date, departure and arrival locations and hyperlinks to Google Map images DeparturePosition and ArrivalPosition are calculated data items formatted for use with Google Maps Map hyperlinks are also calculated based on the type of fix 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 2 of 3 DeparturePosition, Departure Map, ArrivalPosition and Arrival Map are calculated data items \(see departure items below DepartureLatitude DepartureLongitude DeparturePosition Departure Map 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 3 of 3 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Conclusion and Next Steps Current archive is 50 billion records and growing  Approximately 34 million elements per day  1GB/day Sheer volume of raw surveillance data makes analytics process very difficult The raw data runs through a series of processes before it can be used for analytics Next Steps  Continue application of predictive and prescriptive analytics  Big data visualization 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Questions and Comments Paul Comitz Boeing Research & Technology Chantilly, VA, 20151 office Paul.Comitz@boeing.com 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  31 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a “key, value” list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of “key, value” pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


