Abstract 
Wei Li liw@buaa.edu.cn Jiangtao Jiang jiang212999@126.com GuoJun Li aluenkinglee@gmail.com School of Computer Science and Technology Key Lab. of Beijing Network Technology Beihang University Beijing, P.R.China 
Mining User Similarity Based on Users Trajectories 
In this paper, we first extract latent topics of users’ checkin by topic mo del. In order to learn the geographic features of topics, we analyze the distribution a nd correlation of the ve nues of each topic Based on the assumption that each latent topic, to some extent, reflects some users’ habits or behavior patterns 
in certain area, we use the la tent topics to mining user similarity. When use the latent topics to mining user similarity, we first calculate the entropy of each topic and then use it to analyze which topics will be salient when calculating user similari ty. And we define two sets of topic. One is common topic set. The other is variability topic set. Subsequently, we propose two models to calculate user sim ilarity. One is single-layer model. The other is two-layer model. Two-layer model is improved to single model. Finally, we use the proposed models to calculate user similarity in all topic set common topic set and variability topic set. And then we verify our models by experiment Keywords-Location-based social networking; user similarity 
topic modeling; check-in; geographic feature 
1 INTRODUCTION Currently, with the rapid development of the fourth generation mobile communication networks, as well as map services and embedded GPS module interf ace s upports for smart phone making it easy to identify their location for mobile users which prompts more and more users use location-based social networks\(LBSN 6 and share their location information. By discovering or creating venues, user can checkin and leave tips or comments at where he visits. Many LBSN, such as Foursquare Facebook Pl aces and Sina WeiBo, etc, have taken different mechanism to attract users and encourage them to checkin and 
share Recently, some researchers have begun to focus more on the large amount of geo-spatially tagged data being produced from users check-ins, for instance, approaching questions of societallevel interest in an entirely data-driven manner  7 8 9 finding patterns of human mobility   11  12 predicting friendship on social networking sites based on location data   14 and better understanding different aspects of cities   16  In [7 a nd 17 a u thor s us e topic m ode ling to g e t g e og r a phic  topics by using users check-ins. They have adopted the topic model Latent Dirichlet Allocation \(LDA for data analysis. In  authors extract latent topics by LDA and analyze their geographic 
features. Experiment results show that some topics venues are geographic close, and some are not. Meanwhile, authors also analyze the relationship of venues in each topic. Experiment results show that some topics venues belong to the same type such as school, but some topics venues are not, such as mall restaurants, etc. In [7  a u thors f o c u s on g e tting the f a c tors tha t drive user to checkin. By analysis the results, authors thought the factors that drive user to checkin mainly include interest factor community factor and user type factor Based on the following two reasons, we use LDA topic-model to extract the latent topic from users checkin records, and use the extracted topics to calculate user similarity. One reason is that 
when using LDA topic-model to extract topics, \(1\ no pre-defined topics; \(2\xtracted topics represent a meaningful probability distribution of words and document. The other is that extracted topics can be interpreted as users habits or mobility patterns 7  In this paper, we first analyze the extracted topics geographic features, as well as the relationships of venues under the topic. We believe that not every topic is suitable for calculating user similarity. Therefore, we adopted the information entropy of topic in each user to select appropriate topic set to calculate user similarity. We obtain two topic sets by topic entropy value. One is the top 10 topics of high entropy which we call it as variability topic set. The other is the top 10 topics of low entropy which we 
call it as common topic set. And then we use variability topic set common topic set and all topic set to calculate user similarity Experiment results validate our conjecture not every topic is suitable for calculating user similarity”. Finally, we use nDCG 4 normalized discount cumulative gain\ to evaluate the effectiveness of calculating user similarity method 2 RELATED WORK In the past decade, calculating user similarity has become an important research direction of information retrieval and recommendation system. By calculating user similarity, we can recommend friend and location, and predict activity, etc. Recently several studies calculate user similarity by trajectory similarity  
 In [19  au t h o r s exp l o r e a geo m et ri c a p p r o ach t o t r aj ect o r y  similarity by exploiting three types of distance, that is vertical distance, parallel distance and angular distance. While it limit to the geospatial realm, overlooking the types of activities and social information related to the activity location. In  a u thors focused on the spatial components of user trajectories. Their method employs hierarchical trajectory sequence matching to determine similar user When measuring user similarity based on geospatial aspects of user trajectories, we believe that an understanding of the 
2013 International Conference on Cloud Computing and Big Data 978-1-4799-2829-3/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CLOUDCOM-ASIA.2013.74 557 
2013 International Conference on Cloud Computing and Big Data 978-1-4799-2830-9/14 $31.00 © 2014 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CLOUDCOM-ASIA.2013.74 557 


10 0 10 1 10 2 10 3 10 3 10 2 10 1 10 0 Distribution of Users Checkin Number Users Checkin Number P\(X>x 
3.1 DATA SET 3.2 LDA MODEL 
semantics of activity space is essential. In [23   au t h o r s i n v est i g at e the concept of semantic annotations for venue categorization. In developing a semantic signature for a categorized place based on check-in behavior, similar, uncategorized places could be discovered. This concept of semantic signatures may also be applied to assessing user similarity through semantic trajectories In 1  a uthor s m e a s ur e s e m a n tic  s i m ila r ity be tw e e n us e r  trajectories in order to develop a friend recommendation system This work focuses on the type of activities completed by each user and the sequence in which these ac tivities take place Similarly, in   a u thor s  f o c u s  on s t a y c e lls a nd obta i ning a s e m a ntic  understanding of the types of activities conducted within the cells And semantic trajectory has become a measure of user similarity Recently, in [24  au t h o r s p resen t a m e t hod for determining user similarity based on LBSN data. While authors also made use of checkin information, they concentrated on the hierarchy location categories supplied by Foursquare in conjunction with the frequency of check-ins to determine a measure of similarity By comparison, our approach is novel in that besides considering checkin information and frequency, we also extract the latent topics of users checkin records and then calculate user similarity based on the extracted topics 3 METHODOLOGY I n this section, we describe the data collection, topic extraction and methodology used for developing our user similarity measures We first obtain 902 users id in the surrounding of Beihang University by Sina Weibo API. And then we crawled all these users checkin list until May 2013. Of these, 675 users have checkin records, that is, 72.828 of users have checkin records In our data set, there are 13769 check-ins and 4189 venues. We carried out the following processing of our data set: \(1\ remove those users whose check-ins is less than 5; \(2\ remove those venues that have less than 5 users to checkin; \(3\also remove some interpret information of title. After the above processing there are 415 users left, and 9639 check-ins and 3917 venues Sina Weibo defines a venue system hierarchy, involving 20 major categories including Sights, Auto Repair, Street Furniture Science&Education&Culture Finance&Insurance, Living Services and Food Services, etc From Figure 1, we can see that the check-ins in Science&Education&Culture and Business&residential categories are obviously higher than other categories. Figure 2 shows the distribution of users checkin, horizontal axis represents the number of users check-ins. From Figure 2, we can see that 90 users check-ins is less than 50. The average user check-ins is probably about 30 Sights Auto Repair Street Furniture Science&Education&Culture Finance&Insurance Living Services Public Facilites Auto Services Accommodation Services Car Sales Sports Services Business&Residential Food Services Medical Services Address Services Goverment&Community Company Traffic Services Mall Services Motorcycle Services 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 num category num Based on the following two reasons, we use LDA topic-model to extract the latent topic from users checkin records, and use the extracted topics to calculate user similarity. One reason is that when using LDA topic-model to extract topics, \(1\ no pre-defined topics; \(2\xtracted topics represent a meaningful probability distribution of words and document. The other is that extracted topics can be interpreted as users habits or mobility patterns 7  While numerous topic models are discussed in the literature LDA is a state-of-the art genera tive probabilistic topic model that can be used to infer the latent topics in a large textual corpus in an unsupervised manner 2  A topic is a multinomial distribution over terms where the distribution describes the probabilities that a topic will generate a specific word. LDA models each document as a mixture of these topics based on a Dirichlet distribution Several mature implementations of LDA with improvements exist we employ the JGibbsLDA version 
Figure 1. Check-ins distribution in 20 venues categories Figure 2. Distribution of users check-ins 
558 
558 


003 006 
mn z 
006 006 
m m 
002 
k 
K K 
M 
007\007 006\010 011 
th n 
Figure 3. Graphic model represents of LDA Figure 4. \(a\he venues latitude and longitude distribution of topic 1 Figure 4. \(b the venues latitude and longitude distribution of topic 13 
002 
The graphic model of LDA is shown in Figure 3 and are parameters of the Dirichlet prior on the per-document topic respectively is the topic distribution for document  is the word distribution for topic   is the word in document and  is the topic for  And is the number of topics is the number of documents and is the number of words of document We employ the LDA to identify topics in our data set. The basic unit is word in the LDA and, in th is paper, the venue in a single checkin record represents a word. A user trajectory consisting of all the venues of his check-ins represents a document, which is a set of words. Every user’s trajectory can be described as a mixture of the geographic topics that are essentially distributions over the venues. Therefore, the LDA can be applied to the mobility data in this way. In this paper, we set the number of topics 30  50   0.2 It is worth to note that why we set 30 From Figure 3, we can see that most of users checkin times is in the range 20-50, and the average probably is 30 In this section, we will analyze the overall topics geographic features. We will analyze the geogra phic features of each topic, i.e whether the venues of each topic are close to each other or not Whether there are any spatial relations among the venues in the same topic 116 118 120 122 36 38 40 lantitude lantitude lontitude After analysis, geographic features of topics mainly have the following two cases: \(1\here is an obvious concentrated area that is, a considerable portion or substantially all venues in geographic space is close, but a small part of venues scatter in distant locations; \(2\here are two or more concentrated area Figure 4\(a\ shows the venues latitude and longitude distribution of topic 1. From Figure 4\(a\, we can see that this topic belongs to the first case that is having an obvious concentrated area. And the Figure 4\(b\ shows the venues la titude and longitude distribution of topic 13, which belongs to the second case that is having two or more concentrated areas. Due to the space limit we only give two typical distribution diagrams of topic Belonging to the first case also has topic 2 3,4,5,6,8,9,10,14,16 17,18,19,20,22,23 24,26,27,28,29. The rest topics are belonging to the second case. Generating the first distribution may be due to: many users concentrated in this region together to work or study, and occasionally, some users go to relatively distant places for sightseeing or working. While generating the second distribution may be due to: some users often travel or work from one place to another. By analysis the detail information of check-ins in the first case, it can be divided into the following three cases: \(1 most venues in the topic are related to residential, such as, topic 1, 2, 6, etc. The reason for this situation might be the mutual residential relocation of people in these communities. \(2\t venues are related to school residential areas, surrounding park, shopping mall, catering and hotels. This distribution is mainly reflected the activity patterns of students or residents in these communities. \(3\enues are related to recreation places. In contrast, the second case is relatively easy to understand. B ecause the venues under this type are relative dispersion and have the obvious characteristics, that is involving railway station, airport, bus stations, etc. We also can infer whether the user was for work or for travel according to the other venues information Through the above analysis, we can get the following conclusions: \(1\ topics can be interpreted as users common characteristics or lifestyle or habits; \(2\ topic in some certain extent reflects the similarity of users in habits or interests We believe that not every topic is suitable for calculating user similarity. Therefore, we adopted the information entropy of topic in each user to select appropriate topic set to calculate user similarity. For any topic t, the pr obability of this topic belonging to document d is defined as P \(t|d\. So the topic’s entropy over all documents is defined as Equation 1   2      log  1 
m k 
002 
3.3 ANALYSIS OF TOPICS GEOGRAPHIC FEATURES 3.4 ENTROPY OF TOPICS 
002 
002 006 
Ptd tTd D Et Pt d 
mn w mn w 
m N 
004 005 
111 114 117 120 24 32 40 lantitude lantitude lontitude 
th m 
K K 
003 
002 
002 002 
559 
559 


T 
uv uv UU ine u v UU ff SIM U U ff 
uv k uv UkUk venue T ine u v k UU f venue f venue T SIM U U T ff 
k T U 
k uv uvk k u k v TT T SIM U U T SIM U U T P T U P T U 
U U U U U 
005 006 006 011 
kv PT U 
U f v U 3.5.2 Two-layer model u U v U 3.6 EVALUATION 
kn T venue venue venue 
uvk T SIM U U T 
ku PT U 
007 007\007 010\010 006 010\010 011 011\011 
005 
006 
u U 
T k U NUM 
3.5 SIMILARITY CALCULATION MODEL 3.5.1 Single-layer model 
006 
k T k T k T k T 
k T k T n venue k venue k venue 
007 006 011 
uv UU uv UU 
007 006 011 
005 
005 006 006 011 
k venue U 
T k k T i U Uk T n U i NUM fT U NUM 
venue k k venue i U U k venue n U i NUM f venue U NUM 
uuvv TT kTkT k uu vv TT kT kT kk UUUU TT pearson u v UU UU TT TT NUM NUM NUM NUM SIM U U NUM NUM NUM NUM 
007 007\007 010\010 006 010\010 011 011\011 
uuvv venue venue iT iT kk i uu vv venue venue iT iT kk ii UUUU venue T pearson u v k UU UU venue T venue T NUM NUM NUM NUM T SIM U U T NUM NUM NUM NUM 
In a u thor s thoug ht tha t w h e n tw o obje c t s a r e c o m p a r e d f o r  similarity, the set of objects from which the two objects are selected has the effect of making some properties more or less salient in the similarity judgment The properties that are more salient are termed to be more ‘diagnostic Authors argued that two factors contribute to the diagnosticity of a property. The first is variability, which finds that the properties that vary across the elements of the context set are used more to determine the similarity \(or dissimilarity\ of two objects. The second factor commonality is the opposite that properties that are shared by most elements of the context set are the important properties because they help explain what is important in the domain of discourse Based on the above ideas, we obtain two topic sets by topic entropy value. One is the top 10 topics of high entropy which we call it as variability topic set. The other is the top 10 topics of low entropy which we call it as common topic set. And then we use variability topic set, common topic set and all topic set to calculate user similarity In this section, we will describe the detail of the similarity calculation models. We specify tw o models. One is single-layer model. The other is two-layer model Assuming is the selected topic set. Then extract each user weight vector based on the selected topic set. And we will calculate the weight of user in a particular topic with Equation 2 1    2 represents a user represents a topic represents the number of user check-ins in the topic   represents the decay function of user in the topic The purpose of introducing d ecay function is to prevent that only consider the weight of topic but ignoring the quantitative of users check-ins. After we get the users topic weight vector, the similarity of two users  is the comparison of these vectors using the cosine similarity and Pearson correlation coefficient cos   3 22      4 and represents the average check-ins of user and Two-layer model is the improvement of single-model, which calculates user similarity in fine-grained. Compared with singlelayer, two-layer model first calculate the similarity of two users in each topic, and then sum to represents this two users similarity During summation, different users will be different weighting each topic. This weight is based on the importance of topic to user Assuming 12     is one topic represents a venue Then extract each user weight vector  in topic And we will calculate the weight of user in a venue with Equation 5 1   5 represents a user represents a venue  represents a decay function represents that the checkin times of user in The purpose of introducing decay function is to prevent that only consider the weight of venue but ignoring the quantitative of users check-ins. After we get the users weight vector in a topic, the similarity in the topic of two users  is the comparison of these vectors using the cosine similarity and Pearson correlation coefficient cos  _  6 22   _   7 Then the user similarity in the selected topic set is expressed Equation 8 _ _ 8 In Equation 8, we can use Equation 6 or Equation 7 to replace _    represents the weight of topic for and   represents the weight of topic for Our approach is evaluated as an information retrieval problem According to Sina Weibo API, we can obtain users real relationship matrix in our data set. So we can use normalized discounted cumulative gain \(nDCG 4 to evaluate the search results Since Sina Weibo API constraint s, we obtain the relationship between the users settings shown in Table 1 
Uk fT 
u T U NUM v T U NUM venue k U NUM 
560 
560 


012\013 012\013 012\013\012\013 012\013 012\013 
i b Vi if i DCG i DCG i V i if i b Vi DCG i if i b 
DCG p nDCG p IDCG p 
006\006 
  1 1    1   log 
006 
3.7 EXPRIMENTAL RESULTS 
5 5 0.7062 5 
014 015 006 015 015 006\010\016 017 020 015 015 010\016 021 015 022 
Table 1. User relationship settings Relevance level Relationship Figure 5. The nDCG variation with the change of parameter p of single-layer model Figure 6. The nDCG variation with the change of parameter p of two-layer model 
012\013 012\013 
i U i U 
V 
 
012\013 012\013 
2 Bidirectional 1 Unidirectional 0 No-Relation For instance, when queries the top p users that with similarity, the similarity calculation model will be returned to a list of users which size is p. A ccording to the real relationship matrix we can get a relevance vector V. Then we can use nDCG to evaluate the search results. nDCG is used to compute the relativeto-the-ideal performance of information retrieval techniques. The discounted cumulative gain of V is computed as follows: \(In our experiments, b=2 9 Given the ideal discounted cumulative gain IDCG, then nDCG@p can be computed as For example 1 0 2,1 2   In this section, we mainly th rough the experiments to validate our proposed similarity calculation model effectiveness, stability First, we explain our experiment s setup. And then we will show and discuss our results We conduct three experiments for each similarity calculation model. In the first experiment, we use all extracted topic set to calculate user similarity. In the second and third experiments, we use the common topic set and variability topic set to calculate user similarity, respectively First, we introduce the experiments for single-layer model Figure 5 shows the nDCG variation with the change of parameter p. The experiment has five groups, which uses p-value to group When the p-value equal to, we can observe the comparing results of calculating user similarity by cosine and pearson. From Figure 5, we can see that the nDCG will decrease with the increment of p This explains, as more users to obtain, the model performance will decline. For each experiment, we can see that when using the common topic set and the variability topic set to calculate user similarity, the performance are better than using all extracted topic set. This may be that there is some noise for the extracted topic set by LDA model. In this paper, by selecting topics with topic entropy remove the noise topics. Experiments show that noise can be eliminated through the topic information entropy. In each experiment, we can find that the performance is basically the same by cosine and pearson. We also can see that when using cosine to calculate user similarity, the perf ormance is slightly higher by using the common topic set than using the variability topic set except p = 25. While using pearson to calculate user similarity the performance is just opposite with using cosine. This explains that cosine is suitable to calculate similarity on the common topic set and pearson is suitable on variability topic set Two-layer model is the improvement of single-model, which calculates user similarity in fine-grained. Compared with singlelayer, two-layer model first calculate the similarity of two users in each topic, and then sum to represents this two users’ similarity During summation, different users will be different weighting each topic. This weight is based on the importance of topic to user From Figure 6, we can visually see that each gr oup nDCG value will decrease with the incr ement of p-value. However compared with the single-model, the magnitude of reducing is smaller, which illustrates the two-layer model is more stable and faster convergence. For each gr oup of experiments, When using cosine to calculate user similarity on the variability topic set, the performance is worst, and the other two topic sets are substantially uniform. When usin g pearson to calculate user similarity on the variability topic set, the performance is best. This explains when using two-layer model, different calculation methods may produce significant different results In summary, when calculating similarity using common topic set and all extracted topic set, the performance of two-layer model is higher than single-layer model. And with the increment of pvalue, the two-layer model is more stable and faster convergence But when using the variability topic set the performance of twolayer model vary greatly 4 CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we propose a novel method to calculate user similarity. We first extract latent topic of users checkin by topic model. In order to learn the geographic features of topics, we analyze the distribution and correlation of the venues of each 
DCG nDCG IDCG 
006\017 023 
561 
561 


topic. Based on the assumption that each latent topic, to some extent, reflects some users habits or behavior patterns in certain area, we use the latent topics to calculate user similarity. By analysis the geographic features of extracted topics, we verify the assumption that each latent topic, to some extent, reflects some users habits or behavior patterns in certain area. And when using the extracted topic from LDA model to calculate user similarity these topics are noisy which should be removed. In this paper, we use the information entropy of topic to remove noisy. And this approach is proved to be effective by experiments. Our approach is evaluated as an information retrieval problem. We find that when calculating similarity using common topic set and all extracted topic set, the performance of two-layer model is higher than single-layer model, and with the increment of p-value, the two-layer model is more stable and faster convergence. While using variability topic set, pearson outperforms In the future work, we will first expand our data set for further experiments. Meanwhile, we will be to consider the time factor. In this paper, we did not consider the time factor. At the same time our real relationship is too sample, in the further work, we will enrich it. Also we will consider other ways to remove noisy of the extracted topics REFERENCES 1  1 Bl e i  D  M N g A  Y and Jo r d an, M.I  L a te nt D i r i chl e t al l o catio n Journal of Machine Learning Research, 3:393-1022, 2003   2]F e r r a r i, L  and Mam e i, M. D is c o v e r ing dail y r o utine s f r o m g o o g l e  latitude with topic models. In CoMoRea’ll, 2011 3  3 S a r w ar B., K a r y pis, G K o nS tan, J., and Rie dl  J A ppl icatio n o f  Dimensionality Reduction Recommender System—A Case Study, In ACM WebKDD WorkShop, 2000   4]D   Manning  P   Rag h av an and H  S c hutz e  I n tr o ductio n to  Information Retrieval. Cambridge University Press, 2008 5  5 Y i ng J.J.c., L u E.H c., L e e W c T s e n g  V S   Mining  U s e r  Similarity from Semantic Trajectories. Cell pp. 19-26 \(2010   6]Z h e n g   Y  and Z h o u X E d s  L o catio nbas e d s o cial ne tw o r ks   Users. Computing with Spatial Trajectories. Springer, 2011   7]K e nne th J o s e ph Chun H o w T a n, K a thl e e n M.Car l e y Be y o nd Local”, “Category” and “Friends”: Clustering foursquare Users with Latent “Topics”. UbiComp’12, 2012 8  8 J. Cr anshaw R. S c hw ar tz J. I   H o ng  and N   S a de h T h e  livehoods project: Utilizing social media to understand the dynamics of a city. In Proc. ICWSM ’12. AAAI 2012 9  9  Y   Z h e n g   L  Z h ang  Z  Ma, X  X ie  and W  Ma. Re co m m e nding  friends and locations based on  indiv i dual l o catio n his to r y  A C M T r ans   W e b 5 1  5  1 5 44 F e b 2011  10 Z   Che ng   J  Cav e r l e e  K  L e e  and D  Z  S ui. E x pl o r ing  millions of footprints in location sharing services. In Proc ICWSM ’11, pages 81–88 AAAI 2011  11 E   Cho   S  A  My e r s  and J  L e s ko v e c. F r ie nds hip and m o bil i ty   user movement in location-based social networks. In Proc SIGKDD ’11, pages 1082–1090. ACM, 2011   12 A  N o ul as, S  S c e l l a to C. Masco l o  and M. P o ntil A n e m pir i cal  study of geographic user activity patterns in foursquare In Proc ICWSM ’11, pages 570–573 AAAI 2011  13 A   S a dil e k, H  K a utz  and J  P  Big ham F i nding y o ur f r i e nds  and following them to where you are. In Proc. WSDM ’12, pages 723–732. ACM, 2012  14] S  S c e l l a to A  N o ul as and C. Mas c o l o  E x pl o i ting pl ace features in link prediction on location-based social networks. In Proc SIGKDD ’11, pages 1046–1054. ACM, 2011  15 J   Cr ans h aw  R S c hw ar tz  J  I  H o ng and N  S a de h. T h e  livehoods project: Utilizing social media to understand the dynamics of a city. In Proc. ICWSM ’12. AAAI 2012  16] A  N o ul as S  S c e l l a to R L a m b io tte   M P o ntil  and C Mascolo. A tale of many cities: universal patterns in human urban mobility. ArXiv e-prints, Aug. 2011  17]X ue L ian L o ng L e i J i n, J a m s J o s hi. E x pl o r ing T r aje c to r y D r i v e n Local Geographic Topics in Foursquare. UbiComp’12, 2012  18]J o s h J i aChing Y i ng E r ic H s ue hChan L u, W a ng C hie n L e e   Mining User Similarity from Semantic Trajectory.  In ACM LBSN’10, 2010  19] J  G L e e  J  H a n and K  Y W h ang  T r aje c to r y Cl us te r ing  A  Partition-and-Group Framework. In roceedings of International Conference on Management of Data \(ACM SIGMOD\, pp. 593-604 Jun. 2007  20 Y   Z he ng   L  Z hang  and X  X i e  Re co m m e nding f r i e nds and locations based on individual location history. ACM Transaction on the Web, 2010  21] E  H  C L u and V  S  T s e ng  Mining Cl us te r Bas e d Mo bil e  Sequential Patterns in Location-Based Service Environments. In Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management \(MDM\, May. 2009  22 Q uannan L i  Y u Z he ng  X i ng X i e  Y ukun Che n, W e ny u L i u and Wei-Ying Ma. Mining user similarity based on location history Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGSPATIAL international conference on Advances in  geographic information sys-tems - GIS 08, page 34, 2008  23] Mau Y e D o ng S ho u, W a ng chie n L e e  P e if e ng  Y i n and Krzysztof Janowicz. On the semantic annotation of places in location-based social networks. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 520-528, 2011  24] M L e e and C Chung A us e r s im il a r i ty cal cul a tio n bas e d o n  the  location for social network services. DASFAA, pages 38-52, 2011  25 A  T v e r s k y  F e atur e s o f s im il a r ity P s y c ho l o g ical Re v ie w  84\(4\:327-352, 1977 
562 
562 


Blei, D., Ng, A., and Jordan, M. 2003. Latent Dirichlet Allocation Journal of Machine Learning Research, 3: 993-1022 2 Boyd, D. M., & Ellison, N. B. 2007. Social network sites: definition history, and scholarship. Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 13\(1\. Available at http://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol13/issue1/boyd.ellison.html  3 Cha, M., Haddadi, H., Benevenutoz, F., and Gummadi, K. P. 2010 Measuring user influence in Twitter: the million follower. Proceedings of the 4th International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media 4 Chaney, A., Blei, D. 2012. Visualizing topic models. Proceedings of the 6th International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media 5 Chang, J., Boyd-Graber, J., Wang, C., Gerrish, S., and Blei, D. 2009 Reading tea leaves: how humans interpret topic models. Neural Information Processing Systems 6 Choi, D., Min, M., Kim J., and Lee, J. 2011. A Study on topic tracking using microblog. Proceedings of KIIS Spring Conference 2011, 21\(1 80-82 7 Drezner, D. W., and Henry F. 2007. Introduction - blogs, politics and power: a special issue of public choice. Public Choice, 134\(1-2\-13 8 Huberman, B. A., Romero, D. M., and Wu, F. 2008. Social networks that matter: Twitter under the microscope. Available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=1313405  9 Jansen, B. J., Zhang, M., Sobel, K., and Chowdury, A. 2009. Twitter power: tweets as electronic word of mouth. JASIST, 60: 1-20  Jansen, H. J., and Koop. R. 2005. Pundits, Ideologues, and Ranters: the british columbia election online. Canadian Journal of Communication 30\(4\: 613-632  Java, A., Song, X., Finin, T., and Tseng, B. 2007. Why we twitter understanding microblogging usage andcommunities. Proceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNA-KDD 2007 workshop on Web mining and socialnetwork analysis, 56-65  Kim, Y. 2011. Prediction of structure of spread of public opinion at Twitter with special emphasis on by-election for Seoul mayor. Political communucation, 23: 103-139  Kwak, H., Lee, C. Park, H., and Moon. S. What is Twitter, a social network or a news media? Proceedings of the 19th International conference on WWW, 591-600  Lee, K., Namgoong, H., Kim, E. H., Lee, K., and Kim, H. 2010 Analysis of multi-dimensional interaction among SNS users. Journal of Korean Society for Internet Information, 12\(2\: 113-122  Livne, A., Simmons, M., Adar, E., and Adamic, L. 2011. The party is overhere: Structure and content in the 2010 election. Proceedings of 5th ICWSM. Available at http://bit.ly/q9lSu   Mimno, D. M. and McCallum, A. 2008. Topic models conditioned on arbitrary features with Dirichlet-multinomial regression. UAI 2008, 411418  Newman, M. E. J. 2006. Modularity and community structure in networks. Proceedings of National Academy of Sciences, 103\(23 8577…8696  O'Connor, B., Balasubramanyan, R., Routledge, B. R., and Smith, N. A 2010. From tweets to polls: linking text sentiment to public opinion timeseries. Proceedings of 4th ICWSM, 122-129  Hong, L., Davison, B., D. 2010. Empirical study of topic modeling in Twitter. SOMA '10 Proceedings of the First Workshop on Social Media Analytics, 80-88  Sakaki, T., Okazaki, M., and Matsuo, Y. 2010. Earthquake shakes Twitter users: real-time event det ection by social sensors. WWW '10 Proceedings of the 19th WWW, 851-860  Salton G., McGill M. J. 1986.Introduction to modern information retrieval. NY: McGraw-Hill  Seol, k., Ki, J., Lee, C., and Baik, D. 2012. Intimacy measurement between adjacent users in social networks. Journal of KIISE, 39\(4\: 335341  Tamer, A. Wang, N., Hale, S., and I Graham, M. 2012. Obama wins the election! \(on Twitter\ Available at http://www.zerogeography.net/2012/11/obama-wins-election-ontwitter.html   Tumasjan, A. Sprenger, T. O., Sandner, P. G., and Welpe, I. M. 2010 Predicting elections with Tw itter: what 140 characters reveal about political sentiment. Proceedings of the 4th International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, 178-185  Williams, C., and Gulati, G. 2008. What is a social network worth Facebook and vote share in the 2008 presidential primaries. In Annual Meeting of the American Political Science Association, 1-17 
 
community structure is a useful approach of as a data analysis technique used to shed light on the structure of large-scale network data sets  V C ONCLUSION  In this study, we empirically developed the Real-time Twitter Trend Mining \(RT 2 M\ system that is designed for in real-time to 1\ crawl and store every tweet produced in Twitter 2\p track of topical trend, and 3\ visualize mention-based user networks. The major contribution of the study is making it possible to mine dynamic social trends and content-based networks generated in Twitter through adequate integration of state-of-the-art techniques. We also demonstrated the case study on 2012 Korea presidential election. Our empirical study revealed some new findings. First, based on the observation of the temporal Topic Modeling, we identified that Twitter would be a useful medium for keeping track of topical trends. In particular, we found that controversial issues could be propagated faster in Twitter than other media. Second, the mention-based user network provides a basis for identifying any nodes with high betweenness because users in Twitter tend to send/receive mentions each other, not depending on their positive/negative attitude towards a certain issue. This behavioral trait also affects to density of the user community Through additional sentiment analysis on tweets and sentreceived mentions, however, we need to properly measure connectivity among users which could vary based on personal leaning or attitude on a certain issue in Twitter In the future, we will study how to apply sentiment analysis to Twitter data to observe changes in public opinion and the formation process of a certain issue, and ultimately design the prediction model of social issues on social media. In addition by applying the concept of citation to Twitter, we may be able to discover content-based influencers and opinion leaders. We will also explore whether the community structure detected is co-related with the results of topic modeling reported in this paper. In addition, it is one of the interesting research problems to examine the social network patterns varying with the change of different terms over time that we hope to tackle in the future  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  This study was supported by National Research Foundation of Korea Grant funded by the Korean Government \(NRF-20122012S1A3A2033291  R EFERENCES  1 
                         
70 


 Woodly, D. 2007. New competencies in democratic communication blogs, agenda setting and political participation. Public Choice, 134\(12\: 109-123  Wu, F., Huberman, B. A. 2004. Finding communities in linear time: a physics approach. The European Physical Journal B - Condensed Matter and Complex Systems, 38\(2\-338  Xu, X., Yuruk, N., Feng, Z., Schweiger, T., A., J. 2007. SCAN: a structural clustering algorithm for networks. KDD '07 Proceedings of the 13th ACM SIGKDD Intern ational Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 824-833  Yan, E., Ding, Y. and Sugimoto, R. 2012. Topics in dynamic research communities: an exploratory study for the field of information retrieval Journal of Informetrics, 6\(1\: 140-153  Yoon, M., Lee, J. 2012. Antecedents of social media use, actual use, and social capital: an analysis of a mediation model. Broadcasting and Communication, 13\(2\: 5-44  Zhao, W., X., Jiang, J. et al. 2011. Comparing Twitter and traditional media using topic models. ECIR '11 Proceedings of the 33rd European conference on Advances in Information Retrieval, 338-349  
      
71 


  9  A X    S C H EM A TI C E S U M M A R Y O F M A JO R H ELI O LI B I N TER F A C ES     H ELI O LI B ES  S Y N TA C TI C  I N TER F A C ES   enum  DataType     OBJECT  DOUBLE  S TRING  TIME  VECTORIJK    Indexable R   R get int  index   public  int  size    DataArray<T extends  Indexable<T     DataIdentity getIdentity   DataType getType   MaplikeMetadata getMetadata    Table   String getName   IMaplikeMetada ta getTableMetadata   int  getNumCols   DataArray<?> getColumn int  i     TableWithTime extends  Table     int  getTimeArrayIndexForColumn int  dataColIndex    TableWithDetailedTime extends  TableWithTime     int  getMeasurementWindowColIndex int  data ColIndex   int  getExposureTimeColIndex int  dataColIndex   ITimeSystem<?> getTimeSystem     MagneticFieldData extends  TableWithDetailedTime     MagColIndices getMagColIndices   MagDatasetContentInfo getDatasetContentInfo    


  10  RE P RE S E NT AT I V E  H B S NCE C  IN T E R F A C E S   MA G N E T I C  F I E L D  D A T A   MagDatasetContentInfo extends  CoordFrameSrc     boolean  hasBTotal   boolean  hasBTotalUncertainty   boolean  hasBVector\(ICoordFrame frame   boolean  hasBVectorUncertainties\(ICoordFrame fram e   String getDataSetName    MagneticFieldData extends  TableWithDetailedTime     MagColIndices getMagColIndices   MagDatasetContentInfo getDatasetContentInfo     EN ERG ET I C  PART I C L E D AT A   PChannelInfo     String getParameterKey   String get Name   String getDescription   Set<IParticleCalibration> getCalibrations   IParticleSpecies getSpecies   IParticleChannelBounds getBounds   IFOVKey getFOVKey    ParticleInfoSrc extends  ICoordFrameSrc     int  getNumChannels   IPCh annelInfo getChannelInfo int  chnlIdx   String getDataName   ISpectralInfo getSpectralInfo    ParticleData extends  TableWithDetailedTime, ParticleInfoSrc     int  getValueColumnIndexForChannel int  channelIndex, ParticleCalibration cal   int  getU ncertColumnIndexForChannel int  channelIndex, ParticleCalibration cal  int  getParticleFlowDirectionVec torIJKIndex int  channelIndex, ICoordFrame coordFrame     EVEN T  D AT A h a s  n o  i n t e r f a c e   i t  s  j u s t  a n d   I n f o   i n t e r f a c e  a d d e d  t o  a  T a b l e W i t h T i m e  


  11   CONDUIT  I n te r fac e s   Timestamp  public  abstract  boolean  hasTimestamp  public  abstract  TSEpoch getEpoch  boolean  hasMET  public  abstract  MET getMET    PacketHeader extends  Timestamp  int  offsetBytesToCargo   void  movePositionToStartOfNextPacket\(ByteBuff er inputBuffer   int  cargoLength    TelemetryRecord extends  Timestamp   int  getNumFields   Field getField int  fieldNum   Field getField\(String fieldName      TelemetryRecordSource   int  getNumberOfRecords   TelemetryRecord getTelemetryRecord int  recordNum   Object getPacketType this is usually an instrument specific enum  value    Subpacket extends  Comparable<Subpacket>,TelemetryRecordSource   IPacketHeader getIPacketHeader       


   12 The scenario tests are designed through a process o f grouping the FM requirements into sequences. The pr ocess is performed using a requirements-to-test allocatio n matrix in which each requirement is assigned to a test or group of tests The selection of which tests form the incomp ressible test suite is performed through consultation and it eration of the core test list with the systems engineering tea m Following the allocation of all requirements to the  various tests, individual test plans are developed that inc lude a set of starting conditions and high-level outline of test and verification activities. Each test plan includes th e following information test name document number tier desig nation test objective, requirements fully or partially ver ified by the test, minimum spacecraft component set required to run the test, initial conditions for the test, required sup port, planning notes, and the high-level test outline   Figure 12 shows the activity flow for each scenario  test during the system-level test phase  Following the development of the system-level verification and te st plan individual test procedures are generated for each t est. A test procedure is a configuration managed document that describes the detailed information necessary to run  the test on the spacecraft and the list of steps taken to ex ecute the test. The test procedure is also the as-run documen t used by the test conductor or FM lead engineer to document the major milestones of the test When possible the te st procedure will be dry run on the high-fidelity simu lators to identify and correct procedural errors. The test pr ocedure is then executed on the observatory during I&T \(eventu ally the procedure is run on both spacecraft Any deviation s from the test procedure are documented within the test p rocedure as red lines \(i.e., permanent changes to the test p rocedure\ or black lines i.e changes for the current procedur e If the test fails due to test procedure errors the test p rocedure is corrected and the process is repeated However if the test fails due to an implementation error in flight hard ware flight software or autonomy a formal discrepancy is documented in the Anomaly/Problem Failure Reporting  APFR system any changes or corrections to autono my flight software, or hardware are implemented and th e test is re-run until the anomaly is resolved and the test r uns to successful completion After the completion of each  test a review of the test procedure as-run information a nd spacecraft data is performed by a member of the FM team Following the review of the test data, the FM lead engineer signs the test procedure confirming that the test w as run and the review accurately described the success or fail ure of the test  n	\r\n\n  n        n   n\r     n r\r\n\r r\n\r r\r\n\r    0/-1  23  n  4      Figure 12:  Fault Protection System-Level Test Proc ess Flow 4  CONCLUSION The RBSP spacecraft are designed to operate for mul tiple years in the extreme environment of the Earth’s rad iation belts.  To facilitate this mission, a robust fault management system is integrated into the system architecture f rom the earliest stages of the design.  This fault manageme nt system was rigorously tested during I&T and the results o f this testing show that the RBSP spacecraft are protected against on-orbit fault conditions and therefore have a hig h probability of meeting the mission objectives  The  RBSP fault management design, implementation and test ap proach demonstrate that robust fault-tolerant designs are  achievable for complex systems operating in harsh environments even for systems with only limited or  selective redundancy 5  REFERENCES  1  J   S t r a t t o n  a n d  N   F o x   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P robes RBSP\ Mission Overview Proc. of the 2012 IEEE Aerospace Conf. Vol. 027 No. xxx Big Sky, Montana USA, March 2012. The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723   2  K   K i r b y  e t  a l   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P r o b e s   R B SP Spacecraft and impact of environment on observatory  design Proc. of the 2012  IEEE Aerospace Conf.,Vol  027 No. 1759 Big Sky, Montana, USA, March 2012 The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723  


WeD6 \226 Queuing Theory Visitor Center   Chair Starobinski, David Boston University On the Channel-Sensitive Delay Behavior of LIFO-Backpressure 715  Si, Wei Boston University  Starobinski, David Boston University  Transient Flow Level Models for In terference-Coupled Cellular Networks 723  326hmann, David Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fehske, Albrecht Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fettweis, Gerhard Technische Universit\344t Dresden  When do Redundant Requests Reduce Latency 731  Shah, Nihar B University of California, Berkeley  Lee, Kangwook University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  Scheduling in Cooperative Cognitive Radio Networks 739  Das, Dibakar Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Abouzeid, Alhussein A Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Codreanu, Marian University of Oulu  Batch Job Scheduling for Reducing Water Footprints in Data Center 747  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Bits through Bufferless Queues 755  Tavan, Mehrnaz Rutgers University  Yates, Roy D Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  ThA1 \226 Information-Theoretic Security Library   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois Networked Cyber-Physical Systems: Interdep endence, Resilience and Information Exchange 763  Zhu, Quanyan Princeton University  Bushnell, Linda University of Washington  On the Secure Interference Channel 770  Somekh-Baruch, Anelia Bar-Ilan University  How Many Antennas does a Cooperative Jammer Need for Achieving the Degrees of Freedom of Multiple Antenna Gaussian Channels in the Presence of an Eavesdropper 774  Nafea, Mohamed Pennsylvania State University  Yener, Aylin Pennsylvania State University  Distributed Consensus with Byzantine Adversaries n/a  Liu, Xiangyang University of Maryland  Gao, Peixin University of Maryland  Baras, John University of Maryland  


Why Cyber-Insurance Contracts Fail to Reflect Cyber-Risks 781  Schwartz, Galina University of California, Berkeley  Shetty, Nikhil Insieme Networks  Walrand, Jean University of California, Berkeley  Performance-Aware IP Address Randomi zation in Moving Target Defense n/a  Clark, Andrew University of Washington  Sun, Kun George Mason University  Poovendran, Radha University of Washington  ThA2 \226 Distributed Stor age: Theory and Practice Solarium   Chair Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois Explicit Maximally Recoverable Codes with Locality n/a  Gopalan, Parikshit Microsoft Research  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  Jenkins, Bob Microsoft Research  Yekhanin, Sergey Microsoft Research  On the Interior Points of the Storage-Repa ir Bandwidth Tradeoff of Regenerating Codes 788  Sasidharan, Birenjith Indian Institute of Science  Kumar, P. Vijay Indian Institute of Science  A Family of Locally Recoverable Codes n/a  Tamo, Itzhak University of Maryland  Barg, Alexander University of Maryland  Locality and Availability in Distributed Storage n/a  Rawat, Ankit Singh University of Texas, Austin  Papailiopoulos, Dimitris University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Vishwanath, Sriram University of Texas, Austin  Data Secrecy in Distributed Storage Systems under Exact Repair n/a  El Rouayheb, Salim Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago  Goparaju, Sreechakra Princeton University  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Calderbank, A. Robert Duke University  LRC Erasure Coding in Windows Storage: From Cloud to Desktop n/a  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  ThA3 \226 Information Theory II Butternut   Chair  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University Matroid Bounds on the Region of Entropic Vectors 796  Li, Congduan Drexel University  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University  Weber, Steven Drexel University  


Groups and Information Inequalities in 5 Variables 804  Markin, Nadya Nanyang Technological University  Thomas, Eldho Nanyang Technological University  Oggier, Fr\351d\351rique Nanyang Technological University  Superadditivity of Quantum Channel Coding Rate with Finite Blocklength Quantum Measurements 810  Chung, Hye Won Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Zheng, Lizhong Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Information Rates in the Optica l Nonlinear Phase Noise Channel 818  Dar, Ronen Tel Aviv University  Shtaif, Mark Tel Aviv University  Feder, Meir Tel Aviv University  An Outer Bound of the Capacity Re gion of Biometric Systems under Keys, Secrets, and Privacy Requirements 824  Lai, Po-Hsiang Washington University in Saint Louis  O'Sullivan, Joseph A Washington University in Saint Louis  Generalized Cut-Set Bounds for Broadcast Networks 832  Salimi, Amir Texas A&M University  Liu, Tie Texas A&M University  Cui, Shuguang Texas A&M University  ThA4 \226 Sensor Networks Pine   Chair Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis How to Sleep, Control and Transfer Data in an Energy Constrained Wireless Sensor Network 839  Venkateswaran, Vijay Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Kennedy, Irwin O Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Network Observability and Localization of the So urce of Diffusion based on a Subset of Nodes 847  Zejnilovic, Sabina Carnegie Mellon University  Gomes, Jo\343o Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  The Central Detection Officer Problem: SALS A Detector and Performance Guarantees 853  Li, Xiao University of California, Davis  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  A New Graph Model with Random Edge Values: Connectivity and Diameter 861  La, Richard J University of Maryland, College Park  Kabkab, Maya University of Maryland, College Park  


ThA5 \226 Source Coding Lower Level   Chair Cohen, Asaf Ben-Gurion University Correlated Sources with Actions 869  Sabag, Oron Ben Gurion University  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University  Cohen, Asaf Ben Gurion University  Non-Asymptotic Bounds on Fixed Leng th Source Coding for Markov Chains 875  Hayashi, Masahito Nagoya University  Watanabe, Shun University of Tokushima  Efficient Similarity Queri es via Lossy Compression 883  Ochoa, Idoia Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Results on the Optimal Memory-Assisted Univer sal Compression Performance for Mixture Sources 890  Beirami, Ahmad Georgia Institute of Technology  Sardari, Mohsen Georgia Institute of Technology  Fekri, Faramarz Georgia Institute of Technology  Interactive Function Computation with Reconstruction Constraints 896  Ebrahim Rezagah, Farideh Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Erkip, Elza Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Distortion Rate Function of Sub-Nyquist Sa mpled Gaussian Sources Corrupted by Noise 901  Kipnis, Alon Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea J Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Eldar, Yonina C Technion - Israel Institute of Technology  ThB1 \226 Dynamic Games Library   Chair Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan Joint Control of Transmission Power and Channel Switching against Adaptive Jamming 909  Wang, Qingsi University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  Characterization and Computation of Loca l Nash Equilibria in Continuous Games 917  Ratliff, Lillian J University of California, Berkeley  Burden, Samuel A University of California, Berkeley  Sastry, S. Shankar University of California, Berkeley  Multiagent Inverse Reinforcement Learni ng for Zero-Sum Stochastic Games n/a  Beling, Peter University of Virginia  Cogill, Randy University of Virginia  Lin, Xiaomin University of Virginia  A Dynamic VCG Mechanism for Random Allocation Spaces 925  Balandat, Maximilian University of California, Berkeley  Tomlin, Claire J University of California, Berkeley  


Nonstationary Resource Sharing with Imperfect Binary Feedback An Optimal Design Framework for Cost Minimization 932  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  ThB2 \226 Topics in Information Theory III Solarium   Chair Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  De Novo RNA Shotgun Sequencing: Fundamental Limits n/a  Kannan, Sreeram University of Illinois  Pachter, Lior University of California, Berkeley  Tse, David University of California, Berkeley  Queue Length as an Implicit Communication Channel 940  Park, Se Yong University of California, Berkeley  Sahai, Anant University of California, Berkeley  Polytope Codes for Large-Alphabet Channels 948  Fan, Xiaoqing Cornell University  Wagner, Aaron B Cornell University  Ahmed, Ebad LSI Corporation  Data-Driven Management of Infrastructure Networks n/a  Rajagopal, Ram Stanford University A Derivation of the Asymptotic Random-Coding Prefactor 956  Scarlett, Jonathan University of Cambridge  Martinez, Alfonso Universitat Pompeu Fabra  Guill\351n i F\340bregas, Albert ICREA and Universitat Pompeu Fabra  ThB3 \226 Discrete Event Systems Butternut   Chair  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University On Exploiting Algebraic Structure in Control of Finite State Machines 962  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University  A Bridge between Decentralized and Coordination Control 966  Komenda, Jan Czech Academy of Sciences  Masopust, Tom\341\232 Czech Academy of Sciences  A Model Checking Framework for Linear Time Invariant Switching Systems using Structural Systems Analysis 973  Ramos, Guilherme Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Pequito, S\351rgio Carnegie Mellon University and Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Aguiar, A. Pedro University of Porto  Ramos, Jaime Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Kar, Soummya Carnegie Mellon University  


Robust Supervisory Control of Ne tworked Discrete Event Systems 981  Wang, Fei Tongji University  Shu, Shaolong Tongji University  Lin, Feng Wayne State University  Probability Bounds for False Alarm Anal ysis of Fault Detection Systems 989  Hu, Bin University of Minnesota  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  ThB4 \226 Network Inference Pine   Chair Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Organizer\(s Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin Robust Structure Estimation of M aximum Causal Entropy Processes 996  Ziebart, Brian D University of Illinois, Chicago  The Squared-Error of Generalized LASSO: A Precise Analysis 1002  Oymak, Samet California Institute of Technology  Thrampoulidis, Christos California Institute of Technology  Hassibi, Babak California Institute of Technology  Localized Minimax Complexity of Stochastic Convex Optimization n/a  Zhu, Yuancheng University of Chicago  Lafferty, John University of Chicago  Non-Convex Inference via Alternatin g Minimization: Provable Guarantees n/a  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Loop Calculus and Bootstrap-Belief Propagatio n for Perfect Matchings on Arbitrary Graphs n/a  Chertkov, Michael Los Alamos National Laboratory  Gelfand, Andrew University of California, Irvine  Shin, Jinwoo Massachusetts Institute of Technology  ThB5 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems I Lower Level   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  A Rank Minimization Algorithm to Enhance Semidefinite Rel axations of Optimal Power Flow 1010  Louca, Raphael Cornell University  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  Bitar, Eilyan Cornell University  Power System Structure and Confidenti ality Preserving Transformation of Optimal Power Flow Model 102 1  Borden, Alexander R University of Wisconsin, Madison  Molzahn, Daniel K University of Michigan  Lesieutre, Bernard C University of Wisconsin, Madison  Ramanathan, Parmeswaran University of Wisconsin, Madison  


Incentive Design for Direct Load Control Programs 1029  Alizadeh, Mahnoosh University of California, Davis  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 1 n/a  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Pandzic, Hrvoje University of Washington  Qiu, Ting University of Washington  Wang, Yishen University of Washington  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 2 n/a  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Xue, Mengran University of Michigan  Almassalkhi, Mads Root3 Technologies Ltd  Felder, Jennifer University of Michigan  The Redistribution of Power Flow in Cascading Failures 1037  Lai, Chengdi California Institute of Technology  Low, Steven H California Institute of Technology  ThB6 \226 Multiuser Detecti on and Estimation Theory Visitor Center   Chair Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University Phase and Power Estimation for Per-Hop MultiUser Detection in Frequency-Hopping Systems 1045  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Royster, Thomas C MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Non-Coherent Multi-User Detection of DPSK Signals after Differential Demodulation 1052  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  The Incidence and Cross Methods for Efficient Radar Detection 1059  Fish, Alexander University of Sydney  Gurevich, Shamgar University of Wisconsin, Madison  Capacity Analysis of Uplink Multi-User SC-FDMA System with Frequency-Dependent I/Q Imbalance 1067  Ishaque, Aamir RWTH Aachen University  Sakulkar, Pranav RWTH Aachen University  Ascheid, Gerd RWTH Aachen University  Reliable Uncoded Communication in th e Underdetermined SIMO MAC with Low-Complexity Decoding 1 075  Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  


ThC1 \226 Networks, Ga mes and Algorithms III Library   Chair  Williams, Steven R University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Competitive Equilibrium in Electricity Markets wi th Heterogeneous users and Ramping Constraints n/a  Malekian, Azarakhsh Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Ozdaglar, Asu Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Wei, Ermin Massachusetts Institute of Technology  A Lyapunov Optimization Approach to Repeated Stochastic Games 1082  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  Road Traffic Networks: Optimal Transport and Incentives 1090  Mandayam, Chinmoy V Stanford University  Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  Online Stochastic Ad Allocation: Simu ltanenous and Bicriteria Approximations n/a  Mirrokni, Vahab Google Research  A Processor-Sharing Heuristic fo r Multipath Congestion Control n/a  Walton, Neil Stuart University of Amsterdam  Anselmi, Jonatha Basque Center for Applied Mathematics  D'Auria, Bernardo Universidad Carlos III de Madrid  ThC2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing I Solarium   Chair Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Asymptotic Optimality Results for Controlled Sequential Estimation 1098  Atia, George University of Central Florida  Aeron, Shuchin Tufts University  Even Symmetric Parallel Linear Determinis tic Interference Channels are Inseparable 1106  Mukherjee, Pritam University of Maryland  Tandon, Ravi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Ulukus, Sennur University of Maryland  Estimation Over the Collision Channel: Structural Results 1114  Vasconcelos, Marcos M University of Maryland  Martins, Nuno C University of Maryland  Physical Watermarking and Authenti cation in Cyber-Physical Systems n/a  Weerakkody, Sean Carnegie Mellon University  Mo, Yilin California Institute of Technology  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  


Distributed Linear Estimation of Dynamic Random Fields 1120  Das, Subhro Carnegie Mellon University  Moura, Jos\351 M.F Carnegie Mellon University  ThC3 \226 Active Learning, Search and Visual Recognition Butternut   Chair Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Co-Chair Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Working Title: Learning to Recognize Everything n/a  Berg, Alexander C University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill  Visual Attributes for Enhanced Human-Machine Communication 1126  Parikh, Devi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Active Learning of Linear Separators n/a  Balcan, Maria Florina Georgia Institute of Technology  Discriminative Value of Information for Structured Prediction n/a  Taskar, Ben University of Washington  Extrinsic Jensen\226Shannon Divergence and Noisy Bayesian Active Learnin\g 1128  Naghshvar, Mohammad University of California, San Diego  Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Chaudhuri, Kamalika University of California, San Diego  Universal Random Number Generators for Finite Memory Sources n/a  Seroussi, Gadiel Universidad de la Rep\372blica, Uruguay  Weinberger, Marcelo J Center for Science of Information  ThC4 \226 Information Theory III Pine   Chair Avestimehr, Salman Cornell University Approximate Capacity of the Two-User MI SO Broadcast Channel with Delayed CSIT 1136  Vahid, Alireza Cornell University  Maddah-ali, Mohammad Ali Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  K-User Symmetric MIMO Distributed Full-D uplex Network via Wireless Side-Channels 1144  Bai, Jingwen Rice University  Dick, Chris Xilinx, Inc  Sabharwal, Ashutosh Rice University  Degrees of Freedom Region for MIMO Interferen ce Channel with Limite d Receiver Cooperation 1152  Ashraphijuo, Mehdi Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  


Degrees of Freedom of the MIMO Rank-Def icient Interference Channel with Feedback 1159  Chae, Sung Ho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Suh, Changho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Chung, Sae-Young Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  On the Optimality of Trea ting Interference as Noise 1166  Geng, Chunhua University of California, Irvine  Naderializadeh, Navid Cornell University  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  Jafar, Syed A University of California, Irvine  Asymmetric Compute-and-Forward 1174  Ntranos, Vasilis University of Southern California  Cadambe, Viveck R Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Nazer, Bobak Boston University  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  ThC5 \226 Pricing and Contractive Mechanisms for Wireless Data Services Lower Level   Chair Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Smart Data Pricing for the Internet: Agenda & Research Directions 1182  Sen, Soumya University of Minnesota  Market Structures for Wirele ss Service with Shared Spectrum 1188  Berry, Randall Northwestern University  Honig, Michael Northwestern University  Subramanian, Vijay Northwestern University  Nguyen, Thanh Northwestern University  Vohra, Rakesh Northwestern University  Fostering Wireless Spectrum Sharing via Subsidization 1192  Yuksel, Murat University of Nevada, Reno  Quint, Thomas University of Nevada, Reno  Guvenc, Ismail Florida International University  Saad, Walid University of Miami  Kapucu, Naim University of Central Florida  Stable Real-Time Pricing and Sc heduling for Serving Opportunistic users with Deferrable Loads 1200  Dalkilic, Ozgur Ohio State University  Eryilmaz, Atilla Ohio State University  Lin, Xiaojun Purdue University  Implementing Sponsored Conten t in Wireless Data Networks 1208  Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  


ThC6 \226 Deletion Codes: Bounds and Applications Visitor Center   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dolecek, Lara University of Califo rnia, Los Angeles  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois A Practical Framework for Efficient File Synchronization 1213  Bitouz\351, Nicolas University of California, Los Angeles  Sala, Frederic University of California, Los Angeles  Tabatabaei Yazdi, S.M. Sadegh University of California, Los Angeles  Dolecek, Lara University of California, Los Angeles  An Improvement of the Deletion Channel Capacity Upper Bound 1221  Rahmati, Mojtaba Arizona State University  Duman, Tolga M Arizona State University and Bilkent University  On the Number of Subsequences Obtained via the Deletion Channel n/a  Yuvalal, Liron The Open University of Israel  Langberg, Michael State University of New York, Buffalo Efficient Interactive Algorithms for F ile Synchronization under General Edits 1226  Venkataramanan, Ramji University of Cambridge  Narasimha Swamy, Vasuki University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  ThD1 \226 Sparse Data Analysis Library   Chair Studer, Christoph Rice University Recovering Sparse Low-Rank Bloc ks in Tandem Mass Spectrometry n/a  Studer, Christoph Rice University  Pope, Graeme ETH Zurich  Navarro, Pedro Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz  Baraniuk, Richard Rice University  GROTESQUE: Noisy Group Testing \(Quick and Efficient 1234  Cai, Sheng The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Jahangoshahi, Mohammad Sharif University of Technology  Bakshi, Mayank Institute of Network Coding  Jaggi, Sidharth The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Compressed Sensing of Streaming Data 1242  Freris, Nikolaos M 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326\347al, Orhan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  A Fast Hadamard Transform for Signals with Sub-Linear Sparsity 1250  Scheibler, Robin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Haghighatshoar, Saeid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  


Sample-Optimal Average-Case Sparse Fo urier Transform in Two Dimensions 1258  Ghazi, Badih Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Hassanieh, Haitham Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Indyk, Piotr Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Katabi, Dina Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Price, Eric Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Shi, Lixin Massachusetts Institute of Technology Guarantees of Total Variation Mi nimization for Signal Recovery 1266  Cai, Jian-Feng University of Iowa  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  ThD2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing II Solarium   Chair Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Adaptive Stochastic Convex Optimization Over Networks 1272  Towfic, Zaid J University of California, Los Angeles  Sayed, Ali H University of California, Los Angeles  A Routing Problem in a Simple Queueing Syst em with Non-Classical Information Structure 1278  Ouyang, Yi University of Michigan  Teneketzis, Demosthenis University of Michigan  On the Necessary Conditions for Distributed Observability n/a  Doostmohammadian, Mohammadreza Tufts University  Khan, Usman A Tufts University  Sequential Supervised Learning n/a  Wang, Joseph Boston University  Trapeznikov, Kirill Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Fusion Center Feedback for Quasi-Decentr alized Estimation in Sensor Networks 1285  Michelusi, Nicol\362 University of Southern California  Mitra, Urbashi University of Southern California  ThD3 \226 Information Theory IV Butternut   Chair Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Inst. of Tech, Madras The Gaussian Two-Way Diamond Channel 1292  V, Prathyusha Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Thangaraj, Andrew Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Capacity to within a Constant Gap fo r a Class of Interference Relay Channels 1300  Bassi, Germ\341n Sup\351lec  Piantanida, Pablo Sup\351lec  Yang, Sheng Sup\351lec  


The State-Dependent Broadcast Channel with Cooperation 1307  Dikstein, Lior Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Steinberg, Yossef Technion - Israel Institute of Technology An Analysis of the Joint Compute-and-Forward Decoder for the Binary-Input Two-Way Relay Channel 1314  Hern, Brett Texas A&M University  Narayanan, Krishna Texas A&M University  The Generalized Degrees of Freedom of the Int erference Relay Channel with Strong Interference 1321  Gherekhloo, Soheyl Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Chaaban, Anas Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Sezgin, Aydin Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Optimal Jamming Over Additive No ise: Vector Source-Channel Case 1329  Akyol, Emrah University of California, Santa Barbara  Rose, Kenneth University of California, Santa Barbara  ThD4 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems II Pine   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Distributed Stopping in Average Consensus via Event-Triggered Strategies 1336  Manitara, Nicolaos University of Cyprus  Hadjicostis, Christoforos N University of Cyprus  Stochastic Models and Control fo r Electrical Power Line Temperature 1344  Bienstock, Daniel Columbia University  Blanchet, Jose Columbia University  Li, Juan Columbia University  Applicability of Topology Control Algorit hms \(TCA\e Power System 1349  Goldis, Evgeniy A Boston University  Li, Xiaoguang Boston University  Caramanis, Michael C Boston University  Keshavamurthy, Bhavana PJM  Patel, Mahendra PJM  Rudkevich, Aleksandr M Newton Energy Group Ruiz, Pablo A  Charles River Associates Retail Pricing for Stochastic Demand with Unknown Parameters An Online Machine Learning Approach 1353  Jia, Liyan Cornell University  Zhao, Qing University of California, Davis  Tong, Lang Cornell University  Virtual Oscillator Control for Voltage Source Inverters 1359  Dhople, Sairaj V University of Minnesota  Johnson, Brian B National Renewable Energy Laboratory  Hamadeh, Abdullah O Rutgers University  


ThD5 \226 Networks, Gam es and Algorithms IV Lower Level   Chair Lu, Yi University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Contagion and Observability in Security Domains 1364  Bachrach, Yoram Microsoft Research Cambridge Draief, Moez Imperial College  Goyal, Sanjeev University of Cambridge  Targeted Matrix Completion n a  Ruchansky, Natali Boston University  Crovella, Mark Boston University  Terzi, Evimaria Boston University  Random Matrix Theory Approach to Spectral Clustering n/a  Lelarge, Marc INRIA and \311cole Normale Sup\351rieure Optimal Distributed Scheduling in Wirele ss Networks under SINR Interference Model 1372  Chaporkar, P Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai  Proutiere, A KTH Royal Institute of Technology  Load Balancing with Deadlines and Graph Constraints n/a  Moharir, Sharayu Arun University of Texas, Austin  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Shakkottai, Sanjay University of Texas, Austin  Curbing Delays in Datacenters Need Time to Save Time n/a  Alizadeh Attar, Mohammadreza Insieme Networks  Katti, Sachin Stanford University Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  ThD6 \226 Topics in Cryptography Vistior Center   Chair Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duursma, Iwan University of Illinois  Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois How to Encrypt Software  n/a  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles  On the Cost of Information-Theoretic Cryptography n/a  Ishai, Yuval Technion - Israel Institute of Technology From Unprovability to Environmentally Friendly Protocols n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Lin, Huijia Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Boston University  Pass, Rafael Cornell University  Cryptography, Causality, and Coding n/a  Smith, Adam Pennsylvania State University  


Obfuscation for Evasive Functions n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Bitansky, Nir Tel Aviv University  Barak, Boaz Microsoft Research  Kalai, Yael Microsoft Research  Paneth, Boaz Microsoft Research  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles FrPP - Plenary Talk:  C odes for the Storage Cloud Library   Chair Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois Codes for the Storage Cloud n a  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  FrA1 \226 Wireless Communications II   Chair Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University Small Cell Networks: Speed based Power Allocation 1380  Kavitha, Veeraruna Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Capdevielle, Veronique Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Gupta, Manu K Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Distributed Power Control in Femto Ce lls using Bayesian Density Tracking 1388  Hanif, Ahmed Farhan Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Tembine, Hamidou Sup\351lec  Assaad, Mohamad Sup\351lec  Zeghlache, Djamal Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Renewable Energy Scheduling for Fading Ch annels with Maximum Power Constraint 1394  Wang, Zhe Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  Analysis and Design of Spectrum Sh aring in Cognitive Femtocell Networks 1401  Zhou, Xiangwei Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Al-Hraishawi, Hayder Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Jia, Yupeng National Instruments  Channel-Adaptive Spectrum Detection and Sensin g Strategy for Cognitive Radio Ad Hoc Networks 1408  Lu, Yuan North Carolina State University  Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University  Quantized Auction Schemes for Secondary Spectrum Markets 1415  Palguna, Deepan Purdue University  Love,  David J Purdue University  Pollak, Ilya Purdue University  Performance Analysis of Coexisting Secondary users in Heterogeneous Cognitive Radio Network 1422  Li, Xiaohua State University of New York, Binghamton  Xiong, Chengyu State University of New York, Binghamton  


FrA2 \226 Statistical Signal Processing Solarium   Chair  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University Nearly Optimal Sample Size in Hypothesis Testing for High-Dim ensional Regression 1427  Javanmard, Adel Stanford University  Montanari, Andrea Stanford University  Distributed Online Big Data Classifi cation using Context Information 1435  Tekin, Cem University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Compressed Hypothesis Testing: To Mix or Not to Mix 1443  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  Lai, Lifeng Worcester Polytechnic Institute  Sparse Signal Recovery under Poisson Statistics 1450  Motamedvaziri, Delaram Boston University  Rohban, Mohammad H Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Efficient Probabilistic Group Testing based on Traitor Tracing 1458  Laarhoven, Thijs Eindhoven University of Technology  Computational and Statistical Tradeoffs via Convex Relaxation n/a  Chandrasekaran, Venkat California Institute of Technology  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Time-Variant Regularization in Affine Projection Algorithms 1466  Ba, Amadou IBM Research  McKenna, Sean IBM Research  Cloud K-SVD: Computing Data-Adaptive Representations in the Cloud 1474  Raja, Haroon Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  FrA3 \226 Information Aggregation Over Social Networks Butternut   Chair Hassanzadeh, Farzad University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology The Maximum Likelihood Approach to Voting on Social Networks 1482  Conitzer, Vincent Duke University  Building Consensus via Iterative Voting n/a  Farnoud \(Hassanzadeh California Institute of Technology  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology  Touri, Behrouz Georgia Institute of Technology Bruck, Jehoshua California Institute of Technology  CP-Nets with Indifference  1488  Allen, Thomas E University of Kentucky  


Computing Parametric Rankin g Models via Rank-Breaking n/a  Azari Soufiani, Hossein Harvard University  Parkes, David Harvard University  Xia, Lirong Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  On the Dynamics of Influence Networks via Reflected Appraisal n/a  Bullo, Francesco University of California, Santa Barbara Social Group Utility Maximization Game with Applications in Mobile Social Networks 1496  Gong, Xiaowen Arizona State University  Chen, Xu Arizona State University  Zhang, Junshan Arizona State University  Credibility Optimization and Power Co ntrol for Secure Mobile Crowdsourcing 1501  Ahmed, Kishwar Florida International University  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Turnewitsch, Vance Marietta College  Vasilakos, Athanasios V National Technical University of Athens  Group Learning and Opinion Diffusion in a Broadcast Network 1509  Liu, Yang University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  FrA4 \226 Network Coding Pine   Chair Dimakis, Alex University of Southern California Secure Network Coding with Erasures and Feedback 1517  Czap, L\341szl\363 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Prabhakaran, Vinod M Tata Institute of Fundamental Research  Diggavi, Suhas University of California, Los Angeles  Index Coding Problem with Side Information Repositories 1525  Shanmugam, Karthikeyan University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alexandros G University of Texas, Austin  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  Complexity and Rate-Distortion Tradeoff via Successive Refinement 1531  No, Albert Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  On a Capacity Equivalence Between Mult iple Multicast and Multiple Unicast 1537  Wong, M.F California Institute of Technology  Langberg, M State University of New York, Buffalo Effros, M California Institute of Technology  On the Capacity of Sum-Networks 1545  Rai, Brijesh Kumar Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  Das, Niladri Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  


Duality Codes and the Integral ity Gap Bound for Index Coding 1553  Yu, Hao University of Southern California  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  On the Structure of Approximately Optimal Schedules for Half-Duplex Diamond Networks 1561  Brahma, Siddhartha 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326zg\374r, Ayfer Stanford University  FrA5 \226 Topology and Control Lower Level   Chair Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Co-Chair Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois Double Bracket Flows, Toda Flows and Rigid Body Toda 1567  Bloch, Anthony M University of Michigan  Gay-Balmaz, Fran\347ois 311cole Normale Sup\351rieure  Ratiu, Tudor S 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Topological Obstructions to Dist ributed Feedback Stabilization 1573  Mansouri, Abdol-Reza Queen's University  Contact Geometry of Optimal Control Problems n/a  Ohsawa, Tomoki University of Michigan, Dearborn  Equivariant Morse Theory for Formation Control 1576  Helmke, Uwe University of W\374rzburg  Anderson, Brian D.O Australian National University  Towards Discrete Geometric Boundary Co ntrol of Lagrangian Field Theories n/a  Leok, Melvin University of California, San Diego  Structure and Geometry of Minimum-Tim e Trajectories for Planar Rigid Bodies 1584  Futuna, Andrei A Dartmouth College  Wang, Weifu Dartmouth College  Lyu, Yu-Han Dartmouth College  Balkcom, Devin Dartmouth College  Real and Apparent Synchronization n/a  Brockett, Roger Harvard University  Rauch and Bonnet-Myers Type Comparison Theorems in Sub-Riemannian Geometry n/a  Zelenko, Igor Texas A&M University  


FrA6 \226 Privacy and Big Data Visitor Center   Chair Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duchi, John University of California, Berkeley  Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates 1592  Duchi, John C University of California, Berkeley  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Wainwright, Martin J University of California, Berkeley  Differential Privacy, Equilibrium, and Efficient Allocation of Resources 1593  Roth, Aaron University of Pennsylvania  A Bayesian Method for Matching Tw o Similar Graphs without Seeds 1598  Pedarsani, Pedram 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Figueiredo, Daniel R Federal University of Rio de Janeiro  Grossglauser, Matthias 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Privacy as a Coordination Game 1608  Ghosh, Arpita Cornell University  Ligett, Katrina California Institute of Technology  De-Anonymizing Private Data by Matching Statistics 1616  Unnikrishnan, Jayakrishnan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Movahedi Naini, Farid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Robust Subspace Iteration and Privacy-Preserving Spectral Analysis 1624  Hardt, Moritz IBM Research Almaden  Privacy-Utility Tradeoff und er Statistical Uncertainty 1627  Makhdoumi, Ali Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Fawaz, Nadia Technicolor   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a “key, value” list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of “key, value” pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


