  An Effective Algorithm Ba sed on Association Graph and Matrix for Mining Association Rules  Haiwei Pan College of Computer Science and Technology Harbin Engineering University Harbin, China heaven_007cn@yahoo.com.cn Xiaolei Tan, Qilong Han, Guisheng Yin College of Computer Science and Technology Harbin Engineering University Harbin, China tanxiaolei,  hanqilong, yinguisheng}@hrbeu.edu.cn  Abstract 227Association rule mining is a very important research topic in the field of data mining.  Discovering frequent itemsets is the key process in association rule 
mining. Traditional association rule algorithms adopt an iterative method, which requires very large calculations and a complicated transaction process. FAR Feature Matrix Based Association Rules\gorithm solves this problem. However, FAR algorithm is not efficient when the value of the minimum support is small or the number of column of the feature matrix is very large. So we proposed a new algorithm GMA\ which based on association graph and matrix pruning to reduce the amount of candidate itemsets. Experimental results show that our algorithm is more efficient for different values of minimum support Keywords-medical image; data mining; association rule 
relational calculus association graph I   I NTRODUCTION  Image mining is more than just an extension of data mining to image domain but an interdisciplinary endeavor. This domain includes computer vision, image processing, image retrieval, machine learning, artificial intelligence, pattern recognition, database and data mining and so on. Although these areas mentioned above have a relatively mature theories and techniques, but the image mining is still in its infancy, and gradually attended by more and more people. The medical images contain a wealth of hidden useful information that can 
be exploited by physicians in making correct decision for a patient. However, how to extract this relevant valuable information and use it in medical diagnosis is difficult. Data mining technique is indispensable for researching medical images Association rule mining is a very important research topic in the data mining field. Finding association rules is typically done in two steps: discovering frequent itemsets and generating association rules. The second step is rather straightforward, and the first step dominates the processing time, so we focus this paper on the first step.  A number of efficient association rule mining algorithms have been proposed in the last few years 
Among these, the Apriori algorithm by Agrawal, R., Imielinski T  2] ha s  b e e n v e r y i nfl uent i a l  La t e r  m a ny sc ho l a r s h a ve  improved and optimized the Apriori algorithm and have presented new Apriori-like algorithms, [3    T h e A p r i o ri like algorithms consist of two major procedures: the join procedure and the prune procedure. These algorithms require a huge calculation and a complicated transaction process during the two procedures. Therefore, the mining efficiency of the Apriori-like algorithms is not very good when transaction database is very large L.Jaba Sheela proposed the FAR algorithm  i n 2009  This algorithm transforms a transaction database into a Feature 
matrix stored in bits. Meanwhile it uses the Boolean vector 223relational calculus\224 method to discover frequent itemsets. This method uses the fast and simple \223and calculus\224 in the Feature matrix to replace the calculations and complicated transactions that deal with large number of itemsets. But there is a great shortcoming in FAR algorithm. The generating of candidate itemsets relies on the combination of column of feature matrix When the number of column of feature matrix is very large FAR algorithm will cost much time to do useless calculus We proposed the GMA \(association graph and matrix pruning algorithm\ algorithm to solution this problem. GMA algorithm adopts both association grap  a nd m a t r i x pr uni ng  
to reduce the generation of candidate itemsets. It scans database only once and generates frequent itemsets by the \223and calculus\222\222 The remaining of the paper is organized as follows. Section   introduces the pre-processing of medical images. Section  gives the details of GMA algorithm, pseudo code and an example. Section  gives the experiment results and analysis Section concludes our study II  M EDICAL IMAGE PREPROCESSING  We use the CT images of brain as our research object. First 
we use the adaptive water immersion algorithm [8 o ex t r act  the ROI \(interest of region\rom the CT images of brain \(as shown in Fig.1\econd, we need to extract relevant information as the features for each ROI, such as the symmetry area, location of ROI. Last, we clustered these ROI using simple clustering algorithm. We assume that ROI can be clustered into five categories: A, B, C, D, E. Each CT image can be regarded as a combination of ROI. So the CT images of brain can be expressed into the form of Table   978-1-4244-6977-2/10/$26.00 \2512010 IEEE 


    b   d Figure 1  Figure \(a\nd Figure \(c\re the two original images of the brain the dotted line of Figure \(b\ and Figure \(d\ are the ROI marked by using the adaptive water immersion algorithm TABLE I  CT IMAGES IMPRESSION IN TRANSACTION DATABASE  Image ID  Items  IM 1 BCD IM 2 AC IM 3 CDE IM 4 BD IM 5 ACE  III  A SSOCIATION G RAPH AND M ATRIX A LGORITHM GMA A  Basic Concept Definition 1 Association Rules In general, the I = \(I 1 I 2 I m he collection of items D is the transaction database, each transaction T is a subset of items\(T  I\. We say that the T contains the item set X, if X   T. Association rules is logic implication pattern in form of X Y, in which, X  T, Y  T, and X Y  If the database contains the s% of the X  Y transaction, then we say that association rules X Y's support is s; If the database contains X transaction, and also s% transaction contains Y, we say that the confidence of association rules X Y is c Definition 2 Association Graph For a transaction database D. Let L 2 is the set of frequent2 itemsets. G is the association graph of D. G is a direct graph which each edge mapped to an itemset of L 2 For each itemset I i I j of L 2 where i<j, there is a direct edge and only one edge from vertex i to vertex j in G B  GMA algorithm This paper proposed the GMA algorithm to mine the association rules from medical images. In this section, we will give the algorithm details. In general, the GMA algorithm consists of four phases as follows   Transforming the medical image transaction database into the ROI matrix and storing it by bit   Generating the set of frequent-1 itemsets L 1    Generating the set of frequent-2 itemsets, constructing the association graph   Generating the set of frequent-k itemsets L k k>2 First, GMA algorithm transforms the medical image transaction database into the ROI matrix. Assume that the mined medical image transaction database is D, with D having m images and n categories of ROI. Let T={T 1 T 2 T m be the set of transactions and I={I 1 I 2 I n be  the  set of items. So the D can be mapped to a matrix A m*n relative to ROI which has m rows and n columns. Scanning the image transaction database D, if item I j is in transaction T i where 1 j n,1 i m, the element value of A ij is ‘1’, otherwise the value of A ij is ‘ 0 After transforming, GMA algorithm scans the ROI matrix computes the supports of all items, and generates the set of frequent-1 itemsets L 1 and prunes the matrix. The support number I j support of item I j is the number of ‘1’ in the jth column of the ROI matrix A m*n If I j support is not smaller than the minimum support, I j support min_sup, I j will be added to the set of frequent-1 itemsets L 1 Otherwise the column of the jth will be deleted from the ROI matrix. For the ROI matrix the counts of 1 in each row \(denote as sum \(A i is computed. If sum\(A i 2, the ith row of the ROI matrix will be deleted Then the set of frequent-2 itemsets is generated to construct the association graph. For each itemset I i of L 1 a node is allocated for item I i and I i link = NULL. For every combination of I i and I j i<j\ in L 1 the ith and jth column of matrix are two vectors, the “and” relational calculus I i I j is done. If the sum of element values in the “and” calculation result is not smaller than the minimum support number min_sup, sum\(I i I j  min_sup, a directed edge from item I i to item I j is constructed and add itemset {I i I j to the set of frequent-2 itemset L 2 So after generating the L 2 we can get the association graph The most important phase in GMA algorithm is to generate the set of frequent-k itemsets L k k>2\. In order to find the set of frequent-k \(k>2\ itemset, GMA algorithm firstly optimizes the matrix. Afterwards it generates the candidate-k itemsets using the information of association graph and matrix pruning At last it verifies whether the candidate-k itemset is a frequentk itemset. The details of above procedures are described as follows Pruning the matrix means deleting some rows and columns from it. First, the column of the ROI matrix is pruned. This is described in detail as: Let I’ be the set of all items in the frequent set L k-1 where k>2. Compute all |L k-1 j\ where j I and delete the column of correspondence item j if |L k-1 j\| is smaller than k-1. Second recompute the sum of the element values in each row in the ROI matrix. These rows of the ROI matrix whose sum of element values is smaller than k are deleted from this matrix In order to generate candidate-k itemsets, we need to consider all itemsets of L k-1 However, if there is a column of matrix has been deleted by optimizing matrix, we will not consider the itemset of L k-1 which contains the corresponding of item. Otherwise, for each itemset {I 1 I 2 I k-1 of L k-1  finding edges that from vertex I k-1 to other vertex in association graph. If there is an edge from vertex I k-1 to vertex u, the itemset {I 1 I 2 I k-1 u} is a candidate-k itemset GMA algorithm does the “and” relational calculus to verify whether the candidate-k itemset is a frequent-k itemset of L k  The “and” relational calculus is for combination of k vectors 


  which corresponding to the candidate-k itemset {I 1 I 2 I k-1  u}. If the sum of element values in the “and” calculation result is not smaller than the minimum support number min_sup, the k-itemsets corresponding to this combination of k-vectors are the frequent-k itemsets and are added to the set of frequent-k itemsets L k Then make k=k+1, do this again to find all frequent-k itemsets GMA algorithm is described as follows Input An image transaction database D, the minimum support min_sup Output The set of frequent itemsets L k  Transform transaction database into Matrix A frequent-1 itemsets generation phase L 1   if the 1’s counts of the column of A j denote as sum\(A j  sum\(A j  min_sup L 1 L 1 I j  else delete A j from A for each row A m from A If sum\(A m  delete the row of A m from A frequent-2 itemsets and association graph construction phase if L 1   begin allocate a node for each item I i of L 1 and do item[I i  k NU LL th e n d o  produce every 2-vectors A i A j i j\ combination begin B=A i  A j  for the 1’counts of vector B, if sum\(B min_sup do begin allocate a node p p.link = Item[I i   l i nk  p.Item = Item[I j   Item[I i  k p   L 2 L 2  I i I j  end end end Frequent –K\(K 3\ itemsets generation phase K = 3 while \(|L k-1  k\ do begin L k   OptMatrix for all itemsets {I 1 I 2 I k-1 of L k-1  if {I 1 I 2 I k-1  L k-1 I 1 I 2 I k-1 not contain item I d which the corresponding column of matrix was deleted do begin pointer =  Item[I k-1  k   while \(pointer NULL\in u = pointer.Item if sum \(A 1 A 2  A k-1 A u  min_sup then L k L k  I 1 I 2 I k-1 I u  pointer = pointer.link end end k= k+1 end OptMatrix, optmizing the matrix before mining the frequentk \(k>2\msets for every column A j of matrix, compute the |L k-1 A j  if |L k-1 A j k-1 Delete the column A j of matrix for every row of A m of matrix, compute the 1 counts of A m  if sum\(A m k Delete the row Am of matrix C  Example for GMA We give a sample execution of the GMA algorithm in this section. The transaction data of transaction database D are given in Table The itemset of database is the categories of ROI. Assume the minimum support min_sup=2, the m=4 is the number of transactions. There are 5 categories of ROI in medical images transaction database D. Therefore, n = 5 is the number of items. We have given the execution of the GMA algorithm in the following TABLE II  IMAGE TRANSACTION DATABASE  Image ID Itemset  IM 1 I 1 I 3 I 4  IM 2 I 2 I 3 I 5  IM 3 I 1 I 2 I 3 I 5  IM 4 I 2 I 5  The transaction database D is transformed into the ROI matrix A 4*5 We delete the column of the ROI matrix which counts of 1 is smaller than min_sup. Otherwise, add the corresponding item to the set of frequent-1 itemset L 1 So we can obtain L 1 I 1 I 2 I 3 I 5  The fourth column of the matrix A 4*5 is deleted because the support number of item I 4 is smaller than the min_sup. We then compute the sum of the element values of each row in the matrix and delete all rows where the sum of the element values is smaller than 2.  So, the ROI matrix A 4*4 is generated 1 0 0 1 0 T 1 0 1 1 1 T 1 0 1 1 0 T 0 1 1 0 1 T I I I I I 4 3 2 1 5 4 3 2 1  1 0 1 0 T 1 1 1 1 T 1 1 1 0 T 0 1 0 1 T I I I I 4 3 2 1 5 3 2 1  A 4*5   A 4*4  Then, we mine the set of frequent-2 itemsets L 2 and construct the association graph. For each item I i of L 1 allocate a node and make I i link=NULL. Next we compute the counts of 1 for all the combination of 2-vectors after doing the “and relational calculus. For example, for the combination of itemset I 1 I 3 we know that itemset {I 1 I 3 is a frequent-2 itemset of L 2  and construct a direct edge from I 1 to I 3 So we can obtain the L 2 I 1 I 3 I 2 I 3 I 2 I 5 I 3 I 5 and the association graph as shown in Fig. 2 We need optimize the matrix before generating the set of frequent-k\(k>2\temset. Next we mine the set of frequent-3 itemset L 3 Because we find that |L 2 I 1 1< 2, we delete the 


  first column of matrix. Therefore, the itemset {I 1 I 3 of L 2  cannot be extended to candidate-3 itemsets. At last, the number of candidate-3 itemsets is only one, {I 2 I 3 I 5 We do “and relational calculus to verify the candidate-3 itemset and find it is a frequent-3 itemset. Then we make k=k+1 to mine the set of frequent-4 itemset L 4 After computing we know |L 3 1 < 4, so we terminate the execution of the GMA algorithm  Figure 2  The association graph In this example, it generates only one candidate-3 itemset both GMA algorithm and FRA algorithm, that is {I 2 I 3 I 5 It will generate two candidate-3 itemset {I 1 I 3 I 5 and {I 2 I 3 I 5 using DLG algorithm. However, candidate itemsets generated by GMA algorithm is less than FAR algorithm when the number of item is very large. GMA algorithm reduces the generating candidate itemsets by two aspects. One is the information of association graph; the other is the matrix optimizing IV  E XPERIMENT AND A NALYSIS  In order to appraise the performance of the GMA algorithm, we conducted an experiment using the DLG algorithm, the FAR algorithm and GMA algorithm. These algorithms were implemented in C and tested on Windows XP SP3 Operating system, Mobile Intel Pentium 4 1.89GHz CPU 1024MB DDR RAM VC++6.0 compiler platform. The test database T10I4D100K was generated   synthetically by an algorithm designed by the IBM Quest project. The number of items N is set to 1000; |D| is the number of transactions; |T| is the averages size of transactions, and |I| is the average size of the maximum frequent itemsets. Fig. 3 presents the experimental results for different values of minimum supports  Figure 3  The performance comparisons of DLG,FAR and GMA Experiment shows that, we can get the same set of frequentk itemset using three algorithms. However, the run_time of the algorithms execution is not same. DLG algorithm is better than FAR algorithm when the min_sup is small. FAR algorithm excels DLG algorithm as the value of min_sup increasing Because when the min_sup increase, the efficiency of matrix pruning is better. In general, GMA algorithm is outperform the two algorithms whatever the value of min_sup is V  C ONCLUSION  This paper proposed GMA algorithm by improving the FAR algorithm. The GMA algorithm draws on the advantages both association graph and matrix pruning to reduce the candidate itemsets generation. In actually, it greatly reduces the candidate itemsets and has improved the efficiency of frequent itemset mining. Experiment shows that GMA algorithm can adapt and adjust better to the change of the value of min_sup A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The paper is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No.60803036, No.60803037 Natural Science Foundation of Heilongjiang Province under Grant No.F200903, the Fundamental Research Funds for Central Universities No. HEUCFZ1010, the National Hightech R&D Program of China under Grant No. 2009AA01Z143 and Nuclear Safety & Simulation Tech. Lab Foundation under Grant No.HEUFN0802 R EFERENCES  1  Rakesh Agrawal, Tomasz Imielinski and Arun N. Swami, “Data Mining A Performance perspective,” IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 1993, Vol.5, pp.914-925 2  Rakesh Agrawal and Ramakrishnan Srikant, “Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Large Databases,” Proceedings of the Twentieth International Conference on Very Large Databases, Santiago Chile,1994,  pp.487-499 3  J.S. Park, M.S. Chen, P.S. Yu, “An effective hash-based algorithm for mining association rules,”  Proc. 1995 ACM-SIGMOD Int.Conf Management of Data \(SIGMOD’95\, San Jose, CA, l995, pp.175-186 4  Jiawei Han, Jian Pei, Yiwen Yin, “Mining frequent patterns candidate generation,” In proceedings of the 2000 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data \(SIGMOD’2000\, Dallas, TX 2000, pp.1-12 5  Liu,  D. & Kedem,  Z., “An  Efficient  Algorithm  for Discovering The Maximum Frequent Set,” IEEE Transaction on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2002, Vol.14, No.3, pp.553-566 6  L.Jaba Sheela , V. Shanthi , D.Jeba Singh, “Image Mining using Association rules derived from Feature Matrix,” In proceedings of the 2009 International Conference on Advances in Computing Communication and Control \(ICAC3’09\, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India 2009, pp.440~443 7  YEN SJ, CHEN ALP, “A Graph-Based Approach for Discovering Various Types of Association Rules,” IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2001, Vol.13, No.5, pp.839~845 8  Haiwei Pan, Jianzhong Li, Wei Zhang, “Incorporating domain knowledge into medical image clustering,” Applied Mathematics and Computation, 2007, Vol.185, No.2, pp.844-856   I 1  I 5  I 3  I 2  


Fig. 4  Gene expression maps and curves of the 2 genes with the itemset3 of gene functions 3.3 Examining interesting clusters Table 1 shows that there are 38 to 55 significant clusters with respect to different gene ontology category. Here we looked closely into several selected clusters. The clusters are selected based on the corresponding average gene expression, which conceal interesting clues to biologists. We selected the 36 th significant cluster with respect to Cellular Component because this cluster has an interesting pattern in the gene expression maps consistent to the anatomical boundaries. As Fig. 5 shows, there are 37 genes in this cluster, and most genes have a clear curve with high gene expression in the middle of the brain Fig. 5  Genes in the 36 th cluster of Cellular Component In this cluster, frequent itemsets of all sizes of gene functions were considered. Table 5 shows parts of gene maps of the genes having the functions of the frequent itemsets. The genes with same itemsets also show similar or opposite images. The full results of examining several other clusters are available at http://denlab.temple.edu/repository/examining_clusters pdf Table 5. Gene maps corresponding to certain itemsets of gene functions in 36th cluster of Cellular Component Gene functions of the itemset Gene expression maps of the genes with the itemset  stearoyl-CoA 9-desaturase activity iron ion binding fatty acid biosynthetic process lipid biosynthetic process membrane stearoyl-CoA 9-desaturase activity iron ion binding fatty acid biosynthetic process lipid biosynthetic process oxidoreductase activity structural molecule activity synaptic transmission axon ensheathment myelination extracellular space axon ensheathment extracellular space cell differentiation selenium metabolic process microtubule motor activity translation elongation factor activity  translational elongation translation  translational elongation 4. Discussion Although the techniques of association rule mining have been applied to gene expression data analysis, not much effort has focused on detecting the relation between gene expression maps in mice brains and related gene functions. By using the proposed methods to mine association rules among gene functions in the significant clusters of gene expression maps, a number of frequent itemsets of gene functions can be obtained  By inspecting certain clusters and specific genes which have the functions of the frequent itemsets, interesting clues might be obtained for the biological scientists The genes which include the frequent itemsets not only have the same set of gene functions with each other but also have very similar gene expression maps because the rules are mined from significant clusters of genes we have previously obtained. These frequent itemsets of gene functions are correlated to the average images of gene expression maps of their corresponding clusters   


The association rules we have detected make sense biologically, and provide valuable insight to biologists For instance, the genes of the 36 th cluster with respect to cellular component are strongly expressed in the corpus callosum, the major body of white matter in the brain. Perhaps it is not surprising then, that these clusters have many genes involved in myelin biogenesis and fatty acid biosynthesis. It is interesting that one of the genes in the 17 th cluster of molecular function is involved in selenium metabolism suggesting a role for selenium in white matter synthesis. Genes in the 26 th cluster of biological process are largely expressed in the hypothalamus, an area with many nuclei and hence rich in nerve terminals. Consistent with this, the cluster has many genes involved in protein transport. The interpretation of the remaining of significant itemsets will be reported in a future paper In our future work, we will further explore the algorithms and techniques to mine the gene expression maps based on the significant clusters. Since our proposed approach of association rule mining of gene functions is, so far, based on determining the same GO terms \(gene functions\, we can extend the method by using the similarity values of pairs of gene functions in the GO structure. This means that if two functions are very similar to each other or one is a parent of the other even though they have different GO ID, we can consider the two functions as being the same. So the rules can possibly be merged into more general rules without loosing relevant information. We will try different algorithms of association rule mining and propose the most suitable methods to fit our data. We also plan to add other features besides the gene functions, such as the label of significant cluster or the wavelet features extracted from the gene maps. Most importantly, one can predict gene functions by the association rules we found in the significant clusters This is due to the fact that the particular patterns of gene expression maps have high probability to have similar gene functions to the detected frequent itemsets Acknowledgements     This work was supported in part by the National Science Foundation under grants IIS-0705215 IIS-0237921 and by the National Institutes of Health under grant R01 MH68066-04 funded by NIMH NINDS and NIA, NINDS grant 1 R01 NS050148, and also by the Intramural Research Program of the National Institutes of Health \(NIH\, National Library of Medicine \(NLM\. The funding agencies specifically disclaim responsibility for any analyses, interpretations and conclusions References 1 R  A g ra w a l  T  I m ie lin sk i A  S w a m i  Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, p. 207-216, 1993  2  A n d r  s  C  J  M a ri a T O s w a l d o   Mining association rules from biological databases Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, Volume 56 Issue 5, p. 493-504, 2005 3 R  A g ra w a l R  S r ik a n t   Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules VLDB, Chile, Sep 12-15 1994 4 H   Mann i l a  H  T o i v o n en  and A  I nker i V e r k ar no   Efficient algorithms for discovering association rules AAAI Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(SIGKDD Seattle , July 1994 5  V  H e me rt  a n d R  B a l d o c k   Mining Spatial Gene Expression Data for Association Rules Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics, Springer Verlag, p. 66-76, 2007 6 fa s  A  P a n a g i o t is D  Ga r c e z   S  A r t u r Discovering Meaningful Rules from Gene Expression Data Current Bioinformatics, Vol. 2, No. 3. p. 157-164, 2007 7 X  R  Ji a n g L e G r ue n w al d  Microarray Gene Expression Data Association Rules Mining Based On JG-Tree dexa p.27, 14th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications, 2003 8 X  R   J i a n g L e G r ue n w al d  Microarray gene expression data association rules mining based on BSC-tree and FIS-tree Data & Knowledge Engineering  archive, Volume 53, Special issue: Biological data management, p. 3- 29 2005 9   J  L o p e z  e t a l    Fuzzy association rules for biological data analysis: A case study on yeast BMC Bioinformatics 2008  D e l g ado  M   Ma r i n e t a l    Fuzzy association rules General model and applications IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, Volume 11, Issue 2, p. 214 225, 2003  G  Pan dey  G  A t l u r i  e t  al    An association analysis approach to biclustering Proceedings of the 15th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining, p. 677-686, 2009  Mar k H  C h i n   et  al    A genome-scale map of expression for a mouse brain section obtained using Voxelation  Physiological Genomics, p. 313-321, 2007  P O  B r o w n D  B o t s t e i n   Exploring the new world of the genome with DNA microarrays Nat. Genet., p.33 37, 1999  L  A n  H  X i e   M  H  C h i n  Z  O b r a do v i c  D  J Sm i t h  and V. Megalooikonomou Analysis of multiplex gene expression maps obtained by voxelation BMC Bioinformatics. 2009; 10\(Suppl 4\: S10, 2009  L  A n  H  X i e   M  H  C h i n  Z  O b r a do v i c  D  J Sm i t h  and V. Megalooikonomou Analysis of multiplex gene expression maps obtained by voxelation Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine \(BIBM\, 2008  D  L i n  An Information-Theoretic Definition of Similarity Proceedings of the Fifteenth International Conference on Machine Learning, Madison, Wisconsin, p 296-304, 1998   Stanford Genomic Resources  http://genome-www.stanford.edu  


Acknowledgements Annals of Family Medicine Preventive Medicine Circulation Infrastruttura tecnologica del fascicolo sanitario elettronico CORE USENIX Symposium on Internet Technologies and Systems w.r.t Academic Medicine different sizes of  in order to have a comparable number of frequent itemsets mined by both we suitably set We presented a recommendation engine based on the combination of clustering and association rules to generate a predictive disease model The system uses the past medical history of patients to determine the diseases an individual could incur in the future Experimental results showed that the technique can be a viable approach to disease prediction Future works aims to compare our method with other proposals in literature and to perform a more extensive evaluation on large medical history data sets  R Moone y A Strehk J Ghosh Impact of similarity measures on web-page clustering In Proc of ACM Workshop on Web Information and Data Managment WIDM 32501 PLoS Computational Biology Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Proc of the Int Conf on Information Technology in Bio and Medcial Informatics ITBAM\32510 Pattern Recognition A statistical Approach Proc of the 5th Berkeley Symposium vol 1 Proc of Principles of Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery PKDD\32502  pages 175\320187 2002  C A Hidalgo N Blumm A L Barab 253 asi and N A Christakis A dynamic network approach for the study of human phenotypes FPV FPV Introduction to Data Mining New Phytologist Proc of AAAI workshop on AI for Web Search T train Proc of the ACM Int Conf on Information and Knowledge Management CIKM\32508  Proc of ACM SIGMOD Conf on Management of Data SIGMOD\32593 and 0.01 for to 0.1 for  funded by Technological Innovation Department Presidenza del Consiglio dei Ministri Italy  pages 58\32064 2000  R Agra w al T  Imielinski and A N Sw ami Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases In  pages 207\320216 1993  D A Da vis N V  Cha wla N A Christakis and A L Barab 253 asi Time to CARE a collaborative engine for practical disease prediction  20:388\320415 2010  P  A De vijv er and J Kittler   Prentice-Hall London 1982  B Star\336eld et al Comodbidity Implications for the importance of primary care in 325case\325 managment  1\(1 2003  D A Da vis et al Predicting indi vidual disease risk based on medical history In  pages 769\320778 2008  I Lo wenste yn et al Can computerized risk pro\336les help patients improve their coronary risk the results of the coronary health assessment study  27\(5 1998  P  W  F  W ilson et al Prediction of coronary heart disease using risk factor categories  97:1837\3201847 1998  F  F olino C Pizzuti and M V entura A comorbidity network approach to predict disease risk In  pages 102\320109 2010  F  Giannotti C Gozzi and G Manco Clustering transactional data In  5\(4 2009  P  Jaccard The distrib ution of the 337ora of the alpine zone  11:37\32050 1912  J MacQueen Some methods for classi\336cation and analysis of multivariate observations In  pages 281\320297 1967  B Mobasher  H Dai T  Luo and M Nakag a w a Effective personalization based on association rule discovery from web usage data In  pages 9\32015 2001  J E Pitk o w and P  Pirolli Mining longest repeating subsequences to predict world wide web sur\336ng In  1999  U Shardanand and P  Maes Social informat ion 336ltering algorithms for automating word of mouth In  pages 210\320217 1995  R Sn yderman Prospecti v e medicine The ne xt health care transformation  78\(11 2003  K Steinhaeuser and N V  Cha wla A netw ork-based approach to understanding and predicting diseases In  2009  P  T an M Steinbach and V  K umar   Pearson International Edition 2006 12 Proc of ACM Conf on Human Factors in Computing Systems CHI\32595 Social Computing and Behavioral Modeling CORE This work has been partially supported by the project  Figure 6 clearly shows the better overall performances of  This de\336nitively proves that the specialization of the prediction models by means of clustering is meaningful 5 Conclusions References 


 Han J W a ng J Lu Y  and Tzv etk o v P  Mining Top-K Frequent Closed Patterns without Minimum Support In Proceedings of the IEEE international Conference on Data Mining 2002  L iu B Zhao K Benkler J a nd Xiao W Rule Interestingness Analysis Using OLAP Operations In Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Philadelphia PA 2006  Meininger J C Liehr P  Mueller W H Chan W Smith G L and Portman R J Stress-Induced Alterations of Blood Pressure and 24 h Ambulatory Blood Pressure in Adolescents Blood Pressure Monitoring 4\(3-4 1999  Meininger J C Liehr P  Chan W Smith G and Mueller W H Developmental Gender and Ethnic Group Di\002erences in Moods and Ambulatory Blood Pressure in Adolescents Annals of Behavioral Medicine a Publication of the Society of Behavioral Medicine 28 1 10-9  P a dmanabhan B a nd T uzhilin A  A BeliefDriven Method for Discovering Unexpected Patterns In Proceedings of the 4th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 1998  P admanabhan B and T uzhilin A Small is Beautiful Discovering the Minimal Set of Unexpected Patterns In Proceedings of the 6th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Boston Massachusetts 2000  Pipino L  Lee Y a nd W a ng R Data Qualit y Assessment Communications of the ACM April 2002  Quillian M R Seman tic Memory  Seman tic Information Processing M Minsky ed MIT Press 1968  Sahar S On Incorp o rating Sub jectiv e In terestingness Into the Mining Process In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Data Mining 2002  T a n P  N Kumar V  and Sriv a sta v a J Selecting the Right Interestingness Measure for Association Patterns In Proceedings of the 8th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining July 2002  Uni\223ed Medical Language System 2007 a v ailable at www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls  W ang K Jiang Y and Lakshmanan L V.S Mining Unexpected Rules by Pushing User Dynamics In Proceedings of the 9th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Washington D.C August 2003  W ebb G I Disco v ering Signi\223can t Rules In Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Philadelphia PA,2006  Witten I H a nd F rank E Data Mining Practical Machine Learning Tools and Techniques 2nd edition Morgan Kaufmann San Francisco 2005  Xin D Cheng H  Y a n X a nd Han J Extracting Redundancy-Aware Top-k Patterns In Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Philadelphia PA USA 2006 8 BBB 


              


   


                        





