Real-time Diagnosis System Using Incremental Emerging Pattern Mining Jin Hyoung Park 1 Heon Gyu Lee 2 Jong Heung Park 3   Postal & Logistics Technology Department Electronics and Telecomm unications Research Institute, Republic Korea 
neozean, hg_lee, jpark}@etri.re.kr  Abstract 227 Currently, as a effort to reduce a rate of death by cardiovascular diseases, a lot of researches have been studied regarding real-time diagnosis system. So, we implement a prototype which is contained of stream data processor and incremental data mining module for automatic diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases. In the prototype, \(i\gnal data 
which is transported from body-attached sensor is collected and pre-processed, and \(ii\diagnosis features of the bio-signal data are extracted. And the patients are automatically diagnosed using the incremental emerging pattern mining module, then iii\the diagnosis result is provided for the doctor in charge of the patients via a web application in order to manage the medical history of each patient. So, the prototype is able to diagnose and predict patient state on real-time, automatically  Keywords 227 Incremental mining, emerging pattern, IEP-TFP ECG analysis, diagnosis system 
 I  I NTRODUCTION  A rate of death is rapidly increased by cardiovascular diseases during last several decades; therefore, a number of researches have been studied for preventing that. As the result of the researches, some units which are able to extract medical information through simple operator or a spatial dress are developed. After grafting USN \(ubiquitous sensor network technique onto simple diagnosis unit, it is possible to monitor patients on real-time. But, a novel system which is automatically able to diagnose the cardiovascular diseases is needed, because the monitoring system demands a continuous observation by someone. Therefore, a lot of data mining methodologies have been studied for classifying either normal or patient automatically 
In [1  n a l d a ta o f a p a tien t is co llected an d  analysed off line. Then, those diagnose a patient\222s state using the analysed result, which have a high accuracy in the diagnosis. However, the researches have some drawbacks Representatively, the state of the patient is only recorded in case of having an emergency. So, in [3 EC G of a patien t  is monitored and diagnosed by using a PDA mobile, which machine learning is applied. However, one of the major problems of this research is low performance of the hardware because most machine learning algorithms have a high time complexity In order to solve the problem, a signal processor of stream data collected from patient\222s sensor and data mining technique which is able to diagnose patient\222s state on real-time is 
demanded In this paper, a prototype which collects the ECG signal data and diagnoses cardiovascular diseases is proposed According to the prototype, optimal medical service is able to provide for the patients in emergency state. Also, accuracy of the diagnosis will be gradually improved by applying the incremental mining technique. That is able to apply for uheath care system and support the tailored medical service to each patient. Also, a novel paradigm is suggested in the fields of medical industry and academia by taking fast measures for the patient\222s emergency II  D ATA P RE PROCESSING AND E MERGING P 
ATTERN M INING  In this section, we describe feature extraction, emerging pattern, and incremental emerging pattern-based total from partial\(IEP-TFP\, which are core in data mining server A  Extracting the Features A total of 13 features were extracted from HRV \(heart rate variability\ in this study. These features included traditional HRV features adopted from previous studies  6    The analysis of HRV, the variation of period between consecutive heart beats from EC G signal, provides valuable information to assess the autonomous nervous system \(ANS which can be significantly affected by many disease states and physiological change R V an al y s is  m e th ods can  be 
divided into frequency domain, time domain and nonlinear methods. In the following HRV analysis methods are discussed shortly. A detailed description of HRV features can be found in   Time domain feature The time domain features are the simplest ones calculated directly from the RR interval time series \(i.e. intervals between consecutive R peaks\. Time domain measures are the mean RR interval RR m he standard deviation of all RR intervals SDRR d the standard deviation of differences between adjacent RR  intervals SDSD 
  Frequency Domain Feature After computing the time domain features \(the mean RR intervals\we used fast Fourier transformation FFT n the power spectrum of the RR  intervals. Then, we defined various areas of spectral peaks [9  The commonly used frequency bands are total power TP  0~0.4Hz\ery low frequency VLF 0~0.04Hz\ow frequency LF 0.04~0.15Hz\igh frequency HF  0.15~0.4Hz\The most common frequency domain features 978-1-4244-8812-4/10/$26.00 \2512010 IEEE 


include the normalized power of LF and HF bands, and the LF  to HF ratio  Nonlinear Feature It is realistic to presume that HRV also contains nonlinear features due to the complex regulation mechanisms controlling it. The various nonlinear features of HRV can be evaluated by extracting regularity indexes. One simple and easy to comprehend nonlinear method is the so called Poincare plot. It is a graphical presentation of the correlation between consecutive RRIs The Poincare plot may be analyzed quantitatively by fitting an ellipse to the plotted shape. The center of the ellipse is determined by the average RRI  SD1 means the standard deviation of the distances of points from the y  x axis SD2 means the standard deviation of the distances of points from y x  RR m axis, where m RR is the average RRIs We also computed the features SD2/SD1  and SD1SD2 describing the relationship between SD1 and SD2 in our study All features of HRV used in this paper are presented in Table I TABLE  I  D ESCRIPTION OF HRV FEATURES  Feature Index Description Frequency domain nLF Normalized low frequency power nHF Normalized high frequency power LF/HF The ratio of low- and highfrequency  power Time domain RR m  The mean of RR intervals SDRR Standard deviation of all RR intervals SDSD Standard deviation of differences between adjacent RR intervals Nonlinear SD1 Standard deviation of the distance of RR  i rom the line y  x in the Poincare SD2 Standard deviation of the distance of RR i rom the line y x  RR m in the  Poincare SD2/SD1 The ratio SD2 to SD1  SD1SD2 SD1  SD2  B  Emerging Pattern Mining Emerging Patterns \(EPs\trast patterns between two classes of data whose support changes significantly between the two classes. Those patterns have high support in target dataset and low support in opposed dataset. By aggregating the differentiating power of EPs the constructed classifiers are usually more accurate than other existing state-of-the-art classifiers    The problem definition of EPs is following  Definition 1 Given two different classes of datasets which are background dataset D 1 and target dataset D 2 Let sup D  X  is the support of itemset X in a dataset D and the growth rate of an itemset X from D 1 to D 2 is defined as GR  X EPs are those itemsets with high growth rates from D 1 to D 2   otherwise X and X if X and X if X GR X X 0   sup 0   sup 0   sup 0   sup 0   2 1 2 1   sup   sup 1 2         Definition 2 Given a growth rate threshold 1, if GR  X   an itemset X is said to be a Emerging Pattern EP  from D 1 to D 2 EPs for which growth rate is infinite are called jumping emerging patterns \(JEPs\. Those patterns occur only in the target dataset  Definition 3 The strength of an emerging pattern X is defined as strength  X    sup 1       X X GR X GR X strength     If X is jumping emerging pattern strength  X ual to sup  X ause GR  X finite Classification by aggregating emerging patterns \(CAEP\ is application of EPs for classification. It uses the scoring function which is sum of strength of EP X about each dataset  Definition 4 Given a test instance T and a set E  C i EPs of data class C i the aggregate score of T for the class C i is defined as score T  C i            sup 1        i i C E X T X C i X X GR X GR C T score  The Input transaction T is assigned the class which has the highest score using scoring function. If X is jumping emerging pattern score  T  C i es X T  X E  C i  sup Ci  X  because GR  X ual to sup D  X order to perform the classification by EPs, all attributes must have nominal type Therefore, if some attribute type of dataset is continuousvalued attributes, discretization task is essential about continuous-valued attributes C  Apriori-TFP and Incremental Emerging Pattern Mining The Apriori-TFP \(Total from Partial\ algorithm  s  one of the efficient approaches for mining frequent patterns which has all the functionality of Apriori-T [14  1 5  ex cep t  that it operates in a much more efficient manner as a result of the preprocessing advantages offered by the usage of the Ptree data structur  T h e idea of th e A p rioriT F P can generate a T-tree from a P-tree  in a similar Apriori manner as described in    T-tree \(Total Support Tree The most well-known association rule mining \(ARM\ algorithm that makes use of the Apriori [18 A p rio r i al g o rith m u s ed a h a sh tree d a ta structure; however, Apriori can equally well be implemented using alternative structures such as set enumeration trees  Set enumeration trees impose an ordering on items and then enumerate the itemsets according to this ordering. If we consider a data set comprised of three records with union of six items a,c,d  a,c,e and b,d,f then the tree would include one node for each large I with its support count. The 


top level of the tree describes the support for 1-itemsets the second level for 2-itemsets and so on The implementation of this structure can be used effective by storing levels in the tree in the form of arrays, therefore reducing the number of links are required and it provides direct indexing. It is more convenient to build a reverse version of the tree, as shown in Fig. 1. The authors reference to this form of compressed set enumeration tree as a T-tree   a 2  b 1  c 2  d 2  e 1  f 1  a 2 a 1 b 1 c 1 a 1 c 1 b 1 d 1 a 1 a 1 b 1  Fig. 1 T-tree stored in reverse order  P-tree \(Partial Support Tree The P-tree is a compressed set enumeration tree to store partial support for itemsets and its internal structure. The top level is comprised of an array of nodes, each index describing a 1-itemset with child references to P-tree nodes. The P-tree node are consisting: 1\upport field sup array of short integers I or the itemset that the node represents 3\ child and sibling links to further P-tree nodes  We pass through the input data record by record to build a P-tree. The P-tree will have all the itemsets present as distinct records in the input data when it is complete, The support stored at each node is an incomplete support total, comprised of the sum of the supports stored in the sub-tree of the node For each node in the tree, the contribution to the support count for that set which derives from all its lexicographically succeeding supersets has been included because of the way the tree is ordered It is the IEP_TFP \(incremental emerging pattern-based total from partial\at emerging pattern mining is gradually evolved by using tree structure of Apriori_TFP and applying the lemmas of FUP[20 f o r in cre m en ta l m i n i n g     Fig. 2 Framework of IEP-TFP algorithm  Fig. 2 shows the whole framework of incrementally constructing IEP-TFP tree EP-T tree DB Scan the DB and construct the EP-T tree DB by the original construction steps of EP-TFP tree without pruning EP-T tree db The construction steps are similar to construction of EP-T tree DB The main difference is that we use the concept of pre-minimum support to prune the preinfrequent items  EP-T tree UD combine the EP-T tree DB  and EP-T tree db  to achieve the final EP-T tree UD After that according to a given support to prune the infrequent items to get emerging patterns we wanted according to definition of emerging patterns III  I NCREMENTAL D ATA P ROCESSING P ROTOTYPE  Fig.3 shows a concept of the implemented prototype. After transferring the body sensorís data via wireless network, the prototype has 3 steps for automatic diagnosis   Fig. 3 Concept of the implemented prototype  That is consisting of the followings; stream data control server, data mining server, and medical center   The stream data control server which collects and processes the ECG signal data reduces the system load by inserting the data collected from multiple clients in database on real-time   The data mining server contains feature extraction except data mining module. In order to diagnose cardiovascular diseases, it has to extract some features from ECG signal data. Accordingly, if ECG signal data is send from stream data processor to data mining server the feature extraction module extracts the features. The data mining module is automatically able to predict the cardiovascular diseases on real-time using extracted features. The module generates a classification model by using heart signal data \(training dataset\which is verified by medical institution, and classifies the collected data \(test dataset\rom sensor. Also, after generating the first model, the model is gradually evolved by updating the additional training dataset because incremental mining technique is applied in the module   The medical center stores and manages the results diagnosed by mining module. So, it is possible that a 


prompt action on emergency. Also, as a web application support medical history of each patient, the doctors make a diagnosis the state of patient, more accurately and efficiently  IV  I MPLEMENTATION  Fig.4 shows the data collection module in the stream data control server. This module saves the entire ECG signal data transferred from multiple clients in database. There is a list of connected clients on the left of the user interface. If a client code of right is selected, simple information of the selected client is shown on the top of right of user interface Additionally, connecting state of clients is confirmed on the bottom of right of user interface   Fig. 4 ECG signal stream data receiver  Fig. 5 An example screen shot of the feature extraction process  And then, a feature extraction module of the data mining server generates all of the features from collected signal data Fig. 5 is shown the extraction result. There are the ECG signal and RR interval of a patient at the top of Fig. 5. Also, entire extracted features and several diagrams regarding the features are presented on the following The extracted features are saved in database, and the data is used for a web application of the medical center. Fig. 6 is a user interface of the web application for doctors, which is able to read the diagnosis result and history of some patients When a doctor logs in the web-site, he is able to see the list and clinical information of his patients on the top of this page If he selects a patient, he is able to review the medical career of the patient under the clinical information area   Fig. 6 An example screen shot of web application  Additionally, two signal graphs, ECG and RR interval\(Fig 7\ regarding past diagnosis result of a patient, are presented in detailed, by clicking a button labeled ëECG&RRI Signal  


 Fig. 7 An example screen shot of bio-signal  C ONCLUSIONS  We present a prototype which is able to process stream data and diagnose cardiovascular diseases. The prototype model is able to apply periodic or aperiodic medical examination and medical information management system for patients having cardiovascular diseases such as cardiac infarction, apoplexy Also, the prototype suggests a novel paradigm to the fields of medical academic and industry, because coping with emergency is feasible. And tailored medical diagnosis service will be offered by using bio-signal analysis technique on realtime A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was supported by the Postal Technology R&D program of MKE/IITA 2006-X-001-02, Development of Real-time Postal Logistics System  R EFERENCES  1  J.C. Prather, D. F. Lobach, L. K. Goodwin, J. W. Hales, M. L. Hage and W. E. Hammond, ìMedical data mining: knowledge discovery in a clinical data warehouse Proceeding of AMIA annual Fall Symp vol 101, no. 5, 1997 2  L. Jiuyong, F. A. Wai-chee, H. Hongxing, C. Ji, J. Huidon, M. Damien W. Graham, S. Ross, and K. Chris, ìMining risk patterns in medical data Proceeding of the eleventh ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery in data mining pp. 770-775. 2005 3  R. Jimena, G. Alfredo, and I. Arantza, ìReal-time classification of ECGs on a PDA IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine vol. 9,  no. 1, pp. 23-34, 2005 4  Task Force of European Society of Cardiology and the North American Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology, ìHear rate variability Standards of measurement, physiological interpretation, and clinical use,î Circulation, vol. 93, pp. 1043-1065. 1996 5  W. S. Kim, Y. Z. Yoon, J. H. Bae, and K. S. Soh, ìNonlinear characteristics of heart rate time series: influence of three recumbent positions in patients with mild or severe coronary artery disease Physiological Measurement vol. 26, pp. 517-529, 2005 6  H. Ding, S. Crozier, and S. Wilson, ìA New Heart Rate Variability Analysis Method by Means of Quantifying the Variation of Nonlinear Dynamic Patterns IEEE Transaction on Biomedical Engineering vol 54, no. 9, pp. 1590-1597, 2007 7  M. V. Kamath, and E. L. Fallen, ìPower spectral analysis of heart rate variability: a noninvasive signature of cardiac autonomic function Critical reviews in biomedical engineering vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 245-311 1993 8  H. G. Lee, W. S. Kim, K. Y. Noh, J. H. Shin, U. Yun, K. H. Ryu  Coronary artery disease prediction method using linear and nonlinear feature of heart rate variability in three recumbent postures  Information Systems Frontiers vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 419-431 2009 9  G. D. Clifford, F. Azuaje, and P. E. McSharry, ìAdvanced Methods and Tools for ECG Data Analysis Artech House Engineering in Medicine & Biology Series 2006   G. Dong, X. Zhang, L. Wong, and J. Li, ìClassification by aggregating emerging patterns Proceedings of 2nd International Conference on Discovery Science \(DS'99 pp. 30-42, 1999   G. Dong, J. Li, and X. Zhang, ìDiscovering jumping emerging patterns and experiments on real datasets Proceedings of 9th International Database Conference. on Heterogeneous and Internet Databases IDC'99 pp. 155-168, 1999   F. Coenen. \(2004\ The TFP Association Rule Mining Algorithm http://www.csc.liv.ac.uk/~frans/KDD/Software/Apriori_TFP/aprioriTF P.html, Department of Computer Science, The University of Liverpool UK   F. Coenen, P. Leng, and S. Ahmed, ìData Structure for Association Rule Mining: T-Trees and P-Trees IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering pp. 774-778, June. 2004   F. Coenen, P. Leng, and S. Ahmed, ìT-Trees, Vertical Partitioning and Distributed Association Rule Mining Proc. International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM 03 Nov. 2003, pp. 513-516, 2003   F. Coenen, G, Goulbourne, and P. Leng, ìTree Structures for Mining Association Rules Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery vol. 8, pp 25-51, Jan. 2004   G. Goulbourne, F. Coenen, and P. Leng, ìAlgorithms for Computing Association Rules Using a Partial-Support Tree Elsevier Science B.V  vol. 13, pp. 141-149, Apr. 2000   F. Coenen, G. Goulbourne, and P. Leng, ìComputing Association Rules Using Partial Totals Proc. Principles and Pracitce of Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(PKDD 01 vol. 2168. pp. 54-66 Jan. 2001   R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, ìFast algorithm for mining Association rules Proc. International Conference on Very Large Data Bases VLDB 94 pp. 487-499, Sep. 1994   R. Rymon, ìSearch Through Systematic Set Enumeration Proc. Int'l Conference Principles of Knowledge and Reasoning pp. 539-550, Oct 1992   D. W. Cheung, C. Y. Wong, J. Han, and V. T. Ng, ìMaintenance of Discovered Association Rules in Large Databases: An Incremental Updating Technique Proc. International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 96 pp. 106-114, Feb. 1996   


  Bai Lin, ìA Literature Review on the Relationship among Customer Perceived Value, Customer Satisf action and Behavioral Intention Management Review, 2009, 20\(1\, pp. 87-93   Yang Lijing, ìResearch on the Fact ors Influencing Mobile Payment Behavior of Young Group,î Master thesis, Chongqing University, 2008   Chen Yanni, Huan Ziguo, ìThe psyc hological barrier to consumers and Solutions about mobile payment,î Business Modernization, 2009, 8 pp.129-131   Wang Hao, Fang Ya nan, ìResearch on consumerís perception risk and acceptance about China's wireless payment,î Guangdong Communication Technology, 2009, 2, pp. 26-32   CHEN Hua-ping, TANG Jun, ìResearch of Mobile Payment User and User Behavior,î Management Scienc es in China, 2006, 19\(6\, pp. 48-55   Hu Qiulin, Sun Quan, ìAnlysis of consumerís willingness about mobile payment by integration technology acceptance model,î Statistics and Decision, 2008, 6, pp.119-121   Agrawal R, Imielinski T, Swami A, ìMining association rules between sets of items in large databa ses,î Proceedings of the 1993 ACMSIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, 1993, pp.207-216   Dai Wensheng, ìThe Relationship Ru le of Data Mining,î Statistical Research, 2002, 8, pp.40-42   ZHENG Bin, ìOn the Development of Association Rules,î Journal of Jilin Agricultural Science and Tech nology College, 2008, 17\(3\345   WEI Xin-nan, HAO Zhong-xiao, ìMining of Association Rules in the Multi-Relation Database,î Techniques of Automation and Applications 2009, 28\(3\, pp.41-43   Liao Weiguo, Zhang Hongshu, ìRevie w of Mining Association Rules Internet fortune, 2009, 4, pp.26-27   Chen An, Chen Ning, ìData Mini ng Technology and Application Peking: Science Press, 2006, pp.50-110   Agrawal R, Skirant R, ìFast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Large Databases,î California: IB M Almaden Re-search Center, 1994 pp.28-36   WEN Zheng, LIANG Jian-wu,CHEN Ying, ìResearch of Association Rules Algorithm,î Computer Technology and Development, 2009 19\(5\, pp.56-58  
134 


Capacity for analysis and synthesisé, çResearch skills Capacity to learn 4   Interpersonal skills Leadershipé, çInterpersonal skillsé, çAbility to communicate with non-expertsé, çOral and written communications in native languageé, çCritical and self-critical capabilityé, çTeamworking 5   Personal skills Ability to work autonomously Problem solvingé, çCapacity to adapt to new situations Knowledge of a second languageé, çConcern for qualityé, çWill to succeedé, çElementary computing skillsé, çCapacity for applying knowledge in practice Decision makingé, çProject design and management Information management skills Table 7 shows the mean importance of each gr oup of competences by stakeholder group for the First Cycle Degree respondents. For the employers the personal skills are the most importance group followed by professional skills and interpersonal skills. The table confirms that employers rank internationalisation and entrepreneurship lowest. Academics agree with the order of the competence groups but rate all of them more strongly important than employers. Students also rank the competence groups in the same order but rate internationalisation slightly higher than employers and entrepreneurship very slightly lower Analysis of the level of development of the competenceas shows that there is good agreement that Professional skills are the best developed of the skill groups followed by Personal skills and Interpersonal skills. As with importance the Entrepreneurship and Internationalisation skill groups are developed the least. There is clearly a difference between the rated importance and level of development of these groups in that the Personal skills group is rated most important but the Professional skills group is developed the most. Other than that the general structure of the supply demand balance of the generic competences is quite well aligned V  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  The objective of this study was to apply the Tuning Methodology to the EIE discipline set to test the alignment between the views of the importance and level of development of sets of competences between students, academics and employers. The results of this study show that the Tuning Methodology is a useful tool for assessing alignment in these subjects  TABLE VII  MEAN IMPORTANCE OF EACH GROUP BY STAKEHOLDER  Competence Group Academic Employer Student Internationalization 2.86 2.63 2.79 Entrepreneurship 3.07 3.05 3.02 Interpersonal skills 3.23 3.09 3.06 Professional skills 3.36 3.29 3.13 Personal skills 3.44 3.30 3.29  In total 3,275 questionnaires have been collected from the stakeholder groups from a range of European countries. The number of responses from each c ountry is variable and a full by country analysis is not possible with the responses currently available, that said a range of analyses have been carried out Tests of the homogeneity of the responses across all countries show that there are country differences in some analyses and some of these are explored, others merit further investigation. Many of the analyses presented in this paper are aggregated results and therefore potentially suffer clustering problems. This too is a topic of further investigation The following is a summary of the key conclusions drawn from the analyses presented Consistent top of importance of the generic competences for all stakeholders is çProblem solvingé. Second in the ranking for students is çElementary computing skillsé. Comparatively students under rate the importance of this skill, perhaps it is taken for granted in students than in academics and employers The results show employers value it more than students and this message could be communicated to students A number of gaps exist between the importance and level of development between the stakeholders. The largest gap is Knowledge of a second languageé and the evidence from the languages section suggests this view is strongly aimed at English The generic competences group into 5 sets with çPersonal skillsé rated consistently as the most important set. This is followed, in descending order of importance, by çProfessional skillsé, çInterpersonal skillsé, çInternationalisationé and Entrepreneurshipé. The smallest mean çInternationalisation is just over midway between çweaké and çconsiderableé. Given the European Unionês desire to see greater student and employee mobility across Europe, it is clear there is scope for scope for improvement in the value placed in this skill set by curriculum designers Curriculum designers and academics can take comfort in the finding that çProfessional skillsé are the best developed of the skill gr oups followed by çPersonal sk illsé and Interpersonal skillsé. This not only aligns with the views of employers but aligns with anecdotal evidence on the real purpose of EIE education programmes. That said there is a trend in a number of countries across Europe away from large firm employment towards a Small to Medium Sized Enterprise culture. Curriculum designers may wish to reflect on the fact that entrepreneurial skills are very low in the list and perhaps merit more attention and emphasis in the curricula In general the different stakeholders rate the importance and level of development on average differently. This difference has been taken into account in the conclusions drawn. The general unevenness in ranking reflects different perspectives and is, in itself not considered a major issue, of concern are the relative positions of competences and the relative gaps. In general and even allowing for this employers and academics tend to rate competences higher in importance than students and graduates a number of specific instances of differences are drawn out in section 8 73 


After the text edit has been completed, the paper is ready for the template. Duplicate the template file by using the Save As command, and use the naming convention prescribed by your conference for the name of your paper. In this newly created file, highlight all of the contents and import your prepared text file. You are now ready to style your paper; use the scroll down window on the left of the MS Word Formatting toolbar A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The authors acknowledge the funding provided by the European Union for this project and to the members of the project team for help in collecting questionnaires R EFERENCES   1  European Association for Education in Electrical and Information Enginering http://www.eaeeie.org  2  EIE-Surveyor project http://www.eie-surveyor.org  3  Tuning Report http://tuning.unideusto.org/tuningeu/index.php?option=content&task=vi ew&id=172&Itemid=205  4  Overview of the Bologna Process Ö Implementation in Europe in Electrical and Informaiton Engineetringé, ISBN 2-9516740-3-1, pp 542  74 


              


   


                        





