Semantic Interoperability Integrating and Augmenting Legacy Applications with OWL Ontologies Douglas Holmes Java Professionals Inc 11835 Maple Crest Moorpark CA 93021 805-523-2650 dholmesdjavaprofessionals.com Abstract This paper describes an approach to software interoperability based on knowledge representation technologies developed in support of the emerging Semantic Web In particular we are interested in the interoperation of an arbitrary set two or more of legacy applications that operate in a common domain but that were not 
originally designed to support each other or to share information To do this we develop a means to create a general meta-model of the common domain of discourse that contains organizes and correlates the essential information that each of the applications needs to function as well as any additional information particular to the composed system This model becomes the basis of communications between the cooperating systems Each legacy application is able to obtain input data from the model and export output information to augment or update the model in 
a form that allows cooperating systems to operate on the updated information 12 We represent the meta-model in RDF/XML which we believe provides several important advantages RDF is a knowledge representation language that allows information to be described as a set of factual sentences When these sentences are constrained by and consistent with an OWL ontology this enables the use of an existing robust collection of automatic reasoners and other logical tools to classify evaluate query apply rules and otherwise operate 
on the model itself independently of the cooperating applications We describe a layered set of OWL ontologies that serve as domain models for a number of legacy operations analysis simulations aeronautical engineering design tools and software prototypes that are used to support the integrated design and development of aeronautical systems We describe an approach to the development of the ontologies that references and imports concepts from well known foundational ontologies including DOLCE GML and PSL We then describe 
an example that illustrates a methodology for creating the meta-model as an operational scenario Richard Stocking Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs 1011 Lockheed Way Palmdale CA 93599 661-949-1039 rich stockingglmco.com that indicates the benefits to interoperability of this approach Finally we discuss the use of SPARQL queries and SWRL rules that effectively expands the functionality of the system and greatly improves the analysis of the output of the system of cooperating simulations and tools TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1 INTRODUCTION  1 2 INTERNET INTEROPERABILITY THE SEMANTIC WEB  1 3 THE ILIUM FRAMEWORK 
 1 4 SEMANTIC INTEGRATION  1 5 THE ONTOLOGIES  1 6 AN EXAMPLE APPLICATION  1 7 CONCLUSIONS  1 8 SUMMARY OF STYLE SPECIFICATIONS  1 REFERENCES 1 BIOGRAPHY 1 1 INTRODUCTION Interoperability in the context of computational systems refers to the capability to automatically exchange and 
process information in manner that preserves the meaning or semantics of the exchanged information and results in useful reliable output It is a concern that drives research and development programs across a wide range of software applications from military command and control and decision support systems to on line eGovernment and other emerging social systems Enterprise Application Integration EAI has been a major theme in Information Technology for at least a decade Interoperation in industrial 
engineering and manufacturing software is equally important A recent NIST sponsored report 3]on the Interoperability of Software systems describes an industrial perspective on interoperability as  complete interoperability which is the seamless high-fidelity exchange of data between different systems without any loss or corruption 3 NAFCAM 2001 Exploiting E-Manufacturing:Ineroperability of Software Systems Used by U.S Manufacturers available at 1 1-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 C 2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1235 Version 2 Updated 2002:12-03 1 


The value of interoperable systems is widely recognized and the costs of maintaining systems that are not interoperable are probably greater than many expect For example the previously mentioned NIST report notes The costs of interoperability are staggering An internal study from a major automobile manufacturer recently revealed that a lack of interoperability is costing them between 200 million and 400 million per vehicle program According to a recent study of product data exchange in the automotive sector the inability to efficiently exchange product data through the automotive supply chain alone conservatively costs the industry 1 billion per year.6 Similar estimates are available in the aerospace sector In both industries officials clearly believe the real costs of interoperability are much higher In particular there is great interest in enabling the interoperation of some arbitrary collection of legacy applications that operate in a common domain but that were not originally designed to support each other or even to share information Such an interoperation may be motivated by a number of objectives including for example the need to integrate existing applications across an enterprise to improve business processes a desire to create a more effective seamless workflow or perhaps a desire to compose a super system that provides important new or extended functionality from existing components In many of these situations it is desirable to reuse existing software preserve trusted functionality and user interfaces while augmenting and extending the total capability of the collective system 2 INTERNET INTEROPERABILITY THE SEMANTIC WEB At a fundamental level the interoperation of software systems depends on information transport technologies that enable systems to reliably communicate or transfer messages signals in a form that can recognized and decoded as information and on common semantics that ensure the machine interpretation and use of the received information is consistent with the meaning of the transmitted information Since 1999 the World Wide Web Consortium W3C has led an initiative known as the Semantic Web 4 intended to promote this sort of robust and ad hoc interoperation among arbitrary software systems connected to the Internet in a very wide range of application domains The transport aspect of this notion of interoperation depends on a number 4Berners-Lee Tim Hendler Jim Lasilla Ora The Semantic Web Scientific American available at of widely known internet technologies such as TCP/IP HTTP XML and others that are applicable to interacting systems on local networks as well as on the World Wide Web 5 Semantic interoperability on the other hand depends on concepts formalisms and technologies developed over the past several decades in the related disciplines of logic programming and artificial intelligence RDF is a World Wide Web Consortium W3C standard knowledge representation language 6 that allows information to be described as a set of subject-predicate-object statements or logical propositions These statements commonly referred to as triples organize information resources something associated with a unique URI or literals strings numerals etc into subjects objects and predicates binary relationships between subjects and objects RDF is serialized as XML and thus is easily transmitted and processed as any other XML document However RDF documents incorporate a foundation for machine readable semantics that greatly enhances interoperability between distributed software systems 7 Additional and substantial machine interpretable semantics are added to RDF assertions when these sentences are constrained by and consistent with an OWL ontology OWL is a multi-layered knowledge representation language specifically intended to support and promote system interoperability on the Semantic Web 8 OWL adds an hierarchical classification structure as well as a number of ways to further define binary relationships properties The result is in a formal language that can be used to define a logical terminology for use in describing a particular domain This enables the use of an existing robust collection of automatic reasoners and other logical tools to classify evaluate query apply rules and otherwise operate on the descriptions that conform to the ontology In theory reference to this logical foundation also supports the automatic comparison of concepts defined in different ontologies allowing an unprecedented degree of interoperability 5Berners-Lee Tim Blog on Design Issues available at 5 RDF Primer available at I rdf-primer 6 Lacey Lee OWL Representing Information Using the Web Ontology Language Trafford Publishing 2005 7 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at http:llwww.w3.org/T:R/owl-guide Jena Home Page available at htt llwwwh1h comlsemwel Protege Home Page available at p 8 Baader Calvanese McGuiness Nardi and Patel-Schnieder Description Logic Handbook ref2 


3 THE ILIUM FRAMEWORK For several years we have been conducting systems requirements investigations that have been dependent on the interoperation of a number of legacy engineering and analysis systems as well as some prototype software systems under development In such investigations conventional practice is to develop a conceptual design that typically features some advanced technology and to use a variety of simulations and analysis tools to examine some particular aspect of the design Each tool provides some insight to a select set of questions in a particular context no tool provides a comprehensive perspective in a range of situations The interoperation is usually accomplished manually by a team of human operators who first analyze the results of one tool and then infer appropriate input to configure operations in a subsequent tool Such investigations are necessarily limited in range and scope and subject to errors in inference and translation To remedy these kinds of problems we have developed and employed a Semantic Web Framework called the Ilium Framework as means to assemble a collection of simulations and tools Among this collection the Framework provides services to automate systems interoperation as well as to situate all systems in the same information context We believe this situated collection offers analysts and engineers a broad perspective on the operational environment that can include for example links between high level military goals and effects produced by individual engagements modemr network-centric command and control structures formal definitions of situations and situation awareness as well as the effects of cooperating systems in the context of our investigation In such efforts ensuring semantic consistency across an increasingly wide range of systems has been a major concern This paper describes our approach to software semantic interoperability That approach is based on knowledge representation technologies developed in support of the emerging Semantic Web  Object tiev c Figure 1 Ilium Framewo rchitetlur um The IliumFramworklium Agent dvlee d s a local Seantic We The frmWewokspotbnAIta allows legcy _ppica Agent variety ofprograming languagenIliuvriety control user interface acnd tersrvcsiosycroie n otherwise Orcesrateiho ctvtesonheclecinlFgr 34 1 Fillustratesagenfigur an of t Ilium Framework eniromntthis hiew,leveralgyes,n tofa Ilrtium Objects mranagea ineactions amongy aplegacyns apliations.b Basicte Iiuma Objet vacit mirprograndmangagagesiteacins betwend equivaienty ofobjeatsior concepts,i the legacygapplicationrandeother system pluggeds iToe thframework.poie BrokeruObjcatson ponroviduerfintegrfainedn contrlwhenevie appopit sycrequesting sphecifseorichestranm the stateie of theolcirronFgtes Inthsvie seratys of Ilu Obecsmng agets piroviade manaitelgen interfaeon between secuifien lobjects o r processs i and thereto ithenFamework poId fin graied co 1ntrol whe aprpit rEqetn Agcents1 provde an intelient interfae bewe|seii Finally the framework incorporates Jena 9 a popular open source set of Semantic Web tools and supports Prot6g6 I0 as well as an associated set of DL reasoners and rule engines This latter set of tools and services supports various knowledge-based applications and is used to ensure semantic consistency across the plugged-in systems Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 vat Web Ontology Language Guide available at http:Hwww.w3.org TR/owl-guidew 3 


4 SEMANTIC INTEGRATION To do this it is important to have a common reference for the meaning of terms and symbols used by all the applications in the Framework Arguably every software system is at some level a model of the domain it serves Conventionally this model is expressed explicitly in a domain model or implicitly in the requirements documentation prior to the system design In the Ilium Framework we provide a means for users to specify a formal logical model which we call a scenario of the operating system in the domain of discourse That formal model provides the integrating principle for the component systems that are plugged into the framework However to accommodate various component legacy systems the model is created in contrast to the conventional approach after the systems have been implemented The creation of a consistent operational model is facilitated by the existence a collection of Ilium domain ontologies An ontology in this sense is a kind of machine terminology or lexicon that prescribes the meaning of terms used by the system Every significant concept in the domain of discourse and possible relationships among them are described in the Framework's collection of ontologies The ontologies establish the fundamental meaning for these terms and symbols in the Framework that effectively express a domain theory for the assembled system and provide a mathematical basis for machines to compute and operate on those meanings This approach is not unique Notably Oberle 7 proposes a similar approach to interoperability but focuses on middleware and other software artifacts We attempt a more direct approach focusing on the semantics of the domain itself In another sense domain ontologies are akin to database schema and to class libraries in object-oriented programming languages In the Ilium Framework we exploit those similarities to forge links between plugged-in component systems The broad perspective on the domain resident in the ontologies provides a flexible extensible means to situate component systems that typically express a narrower perspective within the composite system Thus versions of concepts used in component systems e.g classes in object oriented systems and equivalent notions in procedural systems can then be identified and represented as subsumed concepts in the ontology Figure 2 illustrates a portion of a simple ontology for such a simplified Shoe Store domain Thus we see in this domain there are some physical things such as Products and Persons and non-physical things such as Transactions There are also different more specialized kinds of these things Shoes Shoestrings Orders Sales Customers and SalesPersons and some intrinsic attributes that describe and distinguish the concepts And there are some properties that relate the various concepts For example a Transaction is an activity in which some Persons and a Product participate a ShoeSales activity has a shoe that is soldln the Transaction which is soldTo a Customer and soldBy a SalesPerson con  oeSale r~r1IuvbF~orT ritur Cost IgStockNl SAIeDae SAWsPerson Figure 2 A Simple Shoe Store Ontology In addition to establishing a common semantic foundation for component systems the Ilium ontologies define the conceptual relationship between the more limited perspective of a component system and a broad view of the domain Concepts defined in the high-level ontologies subsume all the concepts contained in the various plugged4 


in systems Thus they both offer an index to attribute data for those concepts and indicate relationships to equivalent concepts in other systems For example a Shoe concept in a Shoe Store Ilium Ontology subsumes a ShoeProduct class used in an Inventory Management system and a ShoeInterest concept in a Customer Relations Management System Then the system is assured that a particular pair of brown loafers is the proper subject of a decision to re-order more of shoes of that type Figure 3 illustrates this idea for the Simple Shoe Store domain described in Figure 2 In this case there are notional Domai n Ontlogy Coni Inventory Shoetem finance Sh oeInSale l:Sizel Sl Coor in Stc Prticebl  StockNo SaleDate nDaten plgtalOn COnC Sa Per sion Iniventoryr AppicationJ Conicept AR/AP Appicaia on Concept Inventory Management Financial Transaction Store Operations and Payroll Applications that all have some notion of a pair of shoes Nevertheless each sees the same pair of shoes differently names them differently and in fact is interested in different attribute data about the shoes All of these perspectives are unified in the upper ontologies and appropriate relations between them are specified Moreover new relationships and indeed  new related concepts relevant to the extended collection of systems can be described and correctly applied qndrdeptL tShoe Size Colo t Price SanDate O rm*I olP A\\chAse Custmer ShhoS l Credit a[es Person 1 warIsLeve Pfice Pric M 1StockN1  StokNo I1SalaDatel S&IeDate L ommission  Opetafons App0|lcton Concept Payroll App1 cafion Concept Figure 3 Foundation ontology concept subsumes application concepts Given such an ontology it is possible to construct a particular model of operations expected to be supported in the domain from instances of the concepts defined in the ontology The model may describe an actual or expected event activity or process e.g a transaction the manufacture of an artifact a system engineering process The resulting model or scenario describes and constrains a coherent consistent semantic interoperation of the composite system So in the case of the Shoe Store example there is confidence that in a conforming system all references to some Shoe by any of the component systems are both about the same individual and are appropriate to the type of individual that is a shoe is something that is worn by a person and not for example a document The operational model having been constructed in a way that satisfies the domain theory is also something that preserves truth That is all valid statements in the model must be logically be true under the axioms in the theory Thus to the degree that we believe the theory to be an accurate description of the actual physical domain the model is trusted to provide a reliable information about the real world of which it is a model as well as insight into events and objects in it 11 12 Logical consistency in the model provides confidence in its ability to correctly describe corresponding states in the real domain the model describes  Protege Ontology Editor documentation available at httv protege stanford edu 12Top Braid Composer Datasheet available at 12 2WlL Chi and Nicola Guarino 2001 Support for Ontological Analysis of Taxonomic Relationships J Da h Kn EngineeritLL 39\(1 October 2001 5 I 


Figure 4 Excerpt of an Operational Scenario Within the Framework the scenario model organizes and correlates all the information that each of the applications needs to function as well as any additional information particular to the composed system Figure 4 illustrates a portion of a notional operational scenario for the Shoe Store example This model also serves as a system knowledge base for knowledge based components and becomes the basis of communications between the cooperating plugged-in component systems The Ilium Framework uses the model to create Java objects that coordinate and control the system as well as specialized agents that support and extend the functionality of the composite system Each plugged-in application is able to obtain input data from the model and export output information to augment or update the model in a form that allows cooperating systems to operate on the updated information and to report results to users in a flexible report format 5 THE ONTOLOGIES Ontologies define and make explicit the semantics or the meaning assigned to computed data in a particular domain Ontologies represented in OWL are intended to be machine readable so that the data computed according to defined concepts in one location can be properly acted on e.g interpreted processed reasoned about by different machines and different governing programs in another location 13 Consequently OWL ontologies are not easily developed without Editors and other tools Fortunately a number of good tools are available Ilium ontologies domain models themselves are developed using the Natalya F Noy and Deborah L McGuinness Ontology Development 101 A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology Stanford University Stanford CA 94305 Protege Editor/OWL Plug-in[14 and more recently the Top Braid Composer Semantic Web Ontology Editor 15 In most important aspects they both provide access to large active user communities and wide range of tools and methodologies Thus the basic Ilium ontololgy structure benefits from knowledge engineering experience and methods e.g OntoClean 16 as well as various production tools available with Protege and DL Reasoners to ensure logical consistency and completeness in the model that will provide the foundation for meaningful interoperations of the composed system 14 Alan Rector Modularisation of Domain Ontologies Implemented in Description Logics and related formalisms including OWL KCAP'03 October 23-25 2003 Sanibel Island Florida USA pp 121-8 2003 15 Cyc Homepage available at hy 15 Open Cyc home page available at 15 SUMO Description and Home Page available at http:Hwww.ontologyportal.org 16 SENSUS Description and Home Page available at 16 DOLCE A Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering ontology and documents available at 6 


In general Ilium ontology development has been influenced and guided by knowledge engineering methods articulated in the following rules  There is no one correct way to model a domain there are always viable alternatives The best solution almost always depends on the application that you have in mind and the extensions that you anticipate  Ontology development is necessarily an iterative process  Concepts in the ontology should be close to objects physical or logical and relationships in your domain of interest These are most likely to be nouns objects or verbs relationships in sentences that describe your domain 17 Ontologies organize the concepts e.g physical objects principles ideas etc in a domain and describe the relationships between them However an attempt to define all the possible concepts in a single multi-purpose monolithic model is problematic and in fact nearly impossible to accomplish To avoid this problem the Ontologies are partitioned into modular perspectives and layered to support increasing detail as the notion of domain becomes more specific This approach is consistent with experience in disciplines that have developed and used large scale ontologies over many years 18 The modular ontology approach is also emerging Semantic Web best practice and is supported by the OWL knowledge representation language The Top most general layer describes key system and software concepts of the Ilium Framework and the basic or foundational concepts that are used to organize and provide structure more specific layers We believe that reference to foundational ontologies that expose ontological commitment and underpin analysis at more detailed layers in the structure is a key to broad interoperabilty among distributed ontologies and systems 17 Nicola Gauarino Claudio Masolo Stefano Borgo Aldo Gangemi and Alessandro Oltramari Ontology Infrastructure for the Semantic Web Wonder World Deliverable DI 8 Laboratory for Applied Ontology Trento Italy 2001 available on line at 18 DUL.owl ontology available at cnr.it/onLtolLogies/DUL.owlL 18 Amy Knutilla Steven Polyak Craig Schlenoff Austin Tate Shu Chiun Cheah Steven Ray and Richard Anderson Process Specification Language An Analysis of Existing Representations NIST report available at 18t df 18Process Specification Language Ontology available at http://www.mel.nist.gov/psl that depend on them We have reviewed and continue to be informed by a number of respected Upper Ontologies including Cyc 19,20 SUMO 21 and SENSUS 22  We eventually determined that the DOLCE ontology 23,24 specifically developed in the European Union Wonder Web to support distributed ontologies on the Internet is best aligned with our interoperability goals We have subsequently found DOLCE to be sufficiently expressive to accommodate all our varied needs and to be a very useful guide to domain analysis 19 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 owl ontology available at oki cae.drexel.edu,/-wbs/ontology/2004/09/ogc-gmIl 20 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 of Open GIS Consortium OGC Home Page available at 20 Peter Maguire Using THUNDER for Campaign Studies DSTO-TN-0303 DSTO Melbourne August 2000 21 User Manual SEAS Version 3.7 U.S Air Force SMC/XR February 2007 22 Bijan Parsia and Evren Sirin Pellet and OWL DL Reasoner MINDSWAP Research Group University of Maryland College Park available at 1tD 22 Pellet Home Page available at 22 FaCT Home Page available at 22 OWLIM Home Page available at 22 A SPARQL Tutorial available at 7 


In particular we import a simplified light weight OWL version of DOLCE known as DUL DOCLE Ultra Lite 25 as the starting point of all the Ilium Ontologies  as imported by the basic Ilium Framework ontology DUL divides the world into both 4 physical dimensional categories of Event State Action and 3 dimensional categories including Information Realization Object Quality and Region A more detailed description of DOLCE and DUL is beyond the scope of this paper numerous papers and other documentation is available at the LOA DOLCE web site http.//www.loa-cnr.it/DOLCE.html Figure 5 is a view of the basic Ilium Ontology and imported DUL owl ontology depicted in the Top Braid Composer Editor Classes and Properties with the prefix dul are imported from DUL.owl The Class Structure tree is visible in the left panel A more detailed analysis of the DUL Physical Object class is visible along with several Classes that have been imported from the Ilium Geo ontology and subsumed by the DUL PhysicalObject class Thus a geo:TopographicFeaure is defined as a kind of PhysicalObject Likewise Object Properties are seen in the right panel Properties like Classes may have subordinate Properties that specialize the parent Property In the depicted example Dul:isRoleOf is a specialization of the dul:classifies relation The center panel displays details axioms documentation etc related to the selected Class Figure 5 DOLCE Ultra Lite Foundational Ontology The Middle layer includes a number of specialized perspectives on a generic domain These ontologies focus on material assets IliumAsset organizations IliumOrg geographic and cartographic features IliumGeo and situations\(IliumSit At this level analytical standards associated with these perspectives are incorporated and 8 


t rnast M ilitairAs set y6eo Pop0U lbtthFeAtU rt i eO StifiCiAlliEMLilfE  ge.o Sb4toialFet atu re gepo 4 nece ssarfl a where possible imported into the ontologies to leverage 27 and the Ilium Geo ontology incorporates concepts from those standards and improve long-term compatibility with and may import the Open Geographic Modeling Language other ontologies that reference those standards Thus the ontology 28 29 Figure 6 depicts a view of the IliumAsset Ilium Asset ontology incorporates process and service Ontology in the Editor concepts from the NIST Process Specification Language 26 l E tit  dij~~~~~~~~~~~~~ai 1etn ast:PhysicaIA d d Age ast As&etT&enporaryPaet of being able to tan ast ConstrUctionAs set Axiom a ast inatr rtnMnanagere ntAs'r aL tT dl:PhysicalArtiba astAs ctCn p o r i9 n{r o bo HydruogeI cFeatu0re A fmiport  intan TrashportationFeatrF e tu eer PrperIies Fb r r n I R s v dul Sub c tance ne nt particu[ar ncie ih I a.sttMa.rmagenieiAset asti--com-a3 b nt:r-participa p 0 o aslttPlig\247izallAl5tt     t40b Tityli olf tht d b E h dul Inbor aiorealizatic.n Anno tiE S dul Ob jct dfWg,iSX aAssot duI PhysIcalArti Ict services tiA impl In such na iceqaric nt hysical asset dul WgPh5 scaIObt thAt is intehold some hurman or g d u IPhyiaIA9cnt tpical1 is ast-Transp rttiobnAss gesp nat rFa&tUre L Nig 4 VQAV    AdUA   AdviUAV Figure 6 Iliun Below the Middle layer are found domain specific ontologies that mirror and extend the ontological perspectives of the Middle layer We currently have developed a layer of Military OWL ontologies to serve as domain models for a number of legacy operations analysis simulations aeronautical engineering design tools and software prototypes that are used to support the integrated design and development of aeronautical systems For example the MilAsset ontology models military platforms command and control systems and similar physical assets a specialized extension of that describes concepts peculiar to Unmanned Aircraft n Asset Ontology Figure 7 depicts a view of the MillAsset ontology in the Editor Concepts and Properties with the prefix mast are elements of the MilAsset ontology In this view specialized classes formilitary ManeuverableAircraft are depicted as sub-classes of FixedWingAircraft and a large number current maneuverable aircraft types are specified Aircraft types may have specialized models that describe for example sensor configurations or performance characteristics of interest that are particular to one or more plug-ins In this view of the editor an number of model relationships are visible in the Properties window at the right of the frame In the SPARQL panel at the bottom a 9 


SPARQL query discussed in more detail in Section 6 has retrieved the SEAS Plane model information for a particular F-15 instance gure  Mvlititary Asset utnology A number of other military ontologies also exist The MilOrg ondology describes military and related political organizations as well as particular Roles they play in military affairs Tasks they are required to perform and specialized military Actions that perform them MilGeo defines a military perspective on geography with emphasis on terrain polpulation and cultural features of interest to military operations MilGeo contains classes that describe military facilities including Forts Airbases NavalPorts and Forward Operating Locations The MilSit ontology describes Conflicts Campaigns Missions Plans and similar concepts It also defines exactly what constitutes a situation and classifies various types of situations Specialized ontologies relating to military information and communications exist and may be imported in some cases to provide increased detail for those concerns Finally to support military Modeling and Simulation applications the MilSim ontology provides a platform for importing relevant ontologies for a particular study or exercise and a location to create concepts peculiar to individual simulations 10 


impodt Top Leve M d Ile Level Dom1ain Lave i 1po Scenwd1o Level Figure 8 Ilium Ontology Suite typical It is possible and in fact common to employ only a few of these ontologies in particular studies For example many studies are only concerned with physical platforms and therefore only need the MilAsset ontology which imports IlumAsset IliumFramework and DUL Figure 8 illustrates the existing Ilium Ontology Suite and a typical import pattern for a complex Modeling and Simulation application scenario Currently the illustrated suite less Millnfo MilComm and UAV defines 1240 OWL Classes 274 OWL Object Properties and 188 OWL Datatype Properties 6 AN EXAMPLE APPLICATION We are currently using the described approach to conduct systems requirements and other engineering analyses for military aerospace systems In these investigations it is useful to consider detailed aspects of the system design or software prototype behavior in the context of large scale network-centric military operations In the past year in particular we have assembled a collection of well known and widely accepted military simulations to prepare for an extensive investigation of requirements for autonomy in unmanned military platforms It is believed that useful insights in the study will be sensitive to important details of system behavior supporting sensor platform and communications technologies as well as the combined effects of these technologies on an advanced highly networked military force Thus the study environment must provide a means to reliably model and evaluate significant technical detail and to measure the effects as well as propagation of those effects throughout a broad operational context 11 


I r Z  Figure 9 A Military Modeling and Simulation Configuration of the Ilium Framework To do that we have assembled a collection of trusted military simulations that span the range of such applications from fine-grained simulations that focus on detailed interactions between two entities to coarse-grained simulations of military campaigns Figure 9 illustrates the Ilium Framework configured to accommodate those simulations as well as representative prototype systems In this case the legacy applications are simulations analysis systems and design tools Prototypes are notional UAV autopilots route planners decision support systems and similar applications The Framework augments these applications with control objects and agents that coordinate computations in the composed system and specialize agents that typically represent the characteristics of a new system or technology that cannot be easily or adequately simulated in any of the component legacy systems In our current study the following systems have Ilium Framework plugins and are used as components in the study environment 12 Al f<cOmmi.ain FIa 1A  


THUNDER is a campaign simulation that models national military forces and military operations that extend over months 30  Characteristics of individual systems are evaluated statistically and their effects on the overall campaign are not explicitly known Political social and cultural objects and concepts are not included in the model In this configuration THUNDER is used to generate force level tasking mission orders and to evaluate and adjust for the results of missions with respect to campaign plans SEAS is a force level simulation that simulates battles between major forces in combat operations that typically last for hours and as much as a day SEAS features a flexible rules based decision logic that can influence behavior at both the commander and individual combatant level SEAS executes the missions requested by THUNDER and provides a manageable dynamic context for examining the behavior of prototypes in a range of typical operational situations  31 A dynamic plug-in supports interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components EADSIM is a trusted model of air defense systems that is in particular sensitive to many important design attributes of individual systems In certain modified forms it can reference advanced sensor and engagement decision models In our study configuration EADSIM simulates enemy air defenses in selected e.g significant to our investigation portions of the virtual battle A dynamic plug-in supports system control as well as interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components A prototype aircraft mission planning system plug-in supports virtual real time mission plan creation and updates In particular the system provides automatic route planning for selected platforms that have been assigned missions by THUNDER and that are subsequently executed in simulation in SEAS and EADSIM The Ilium Framework itself provides software agents that are used to model notional or experimental UAV characteristics and behaviors Depending on the objectives of a particular study the Framework may also provide agents that address advanced Command and Control concepts to coordinate the interaction of the various component systems We maintain a semantic consistency among the plugged-in component applications by developing a single operational scenario as initial input for a study and deriving the necessary application configuration data from that source We create an RDF model of the scenario based on the Ilium suite of ontologies that includes political context issues objectives sensitivities etc military context centers of gravity campaign objectives etc geophysical environment military units order of battle unit equipment lists etc command and control assets platforms weapons ISR systems etc Figure 11 below is an excerpt from an operational scenario set in the Southwest U.S depicting a description of an Air Force Wing assigned to a notional Joint Task Force The Wing is based at Bishop Air Base and has six Fighter Squadrons assigned to it Additional detail about each of those squadrons as well as the base is found in the model in this case an rdf:resource  associated with it morg:AirForceWing rdf:ID="USAF_366 Air_Exp Wg dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB_pos morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 390_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_494_Ftr_Sq dc date I 0/20/07</dc date morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_496 Ftr_Sq rdfs:comment>366 AEW F-22 F-15 KC-135 130]</rdfs:comment morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 389_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 391 Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 495_Ftr_Sq rdfs:label>366 Air Expeditionary Wing</rdfs:label morg:AirForceWing ab9 7P.b ii uI1 L L CFigure 11 An RDF model of a notional USAF Wing Figure 12 is another excerpt from the same scenario illustrating a model of a particular Fighter Squadron and one of the F-15E aircraft it operates Figure 10 Legacy Components in the Ilium Framework 13 suka 


morg:AirliorceSquadron rd:lD U SAF _8 htr Sq rdfs:label>8th Fighter Squadron</rdfs:label geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB_pos msim:hasSeasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA mast:hasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA rdfs:comment>An F15E Squadron</rdfs:comment dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB morg:AirForceSquadron F1 5E rdf:ID="F1 5E 05 dul:isReferenceOfRealization rdf:resource="#AirObj ect_2007 mast:equipment-of rdf:resource="#USAF 7 Ftr_Sq dc:creator>Doug Hollmes</dc:creator dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date msim:hasSeasPlane rdf:resource="#F15E mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB-pos rdfs:label>F-15E 005</rdfs:label F-15E Figure 12 An RDF model of a Fighter Squadron and one of its aircraft Note that these models also have associated SEAS models that contain information peculiar to the SEAS simulation about these entities This information is used to configure SEAS to properly represent these particular entities We are also able to insert objects and information that may be of interest in our study that is not represented in any of the component simulations or other applications Where those objects are related to an object that is simulated that relationship permits inferences about the effects on them as a result of actions that are computed in a simulation For example it is possible to indicate that GeorgeAB defends the capital city and lend special significance to the actions of aircraft that are based there even though none of the simulations in the composite system have any notion of capital city Finally the operational scenario provides an explicit record of the assumptions that underly the study and can also include and explicit representation of system and study goals This practice improves analysis and may enable future knowledge based analytical tools Throughout the process of constructing the operational scenario and when it is complete we use one or more Description Logic Reasoners to ensure the logical consistency of the the model A number of these automatic theorem provers are freely available including Pellet 32 33 FaCT  34 and OWLIM 35 are used in the Framework to compute logical entailments and to complete RDF models as well as to ensure the consistency of models In the later capacity frequent checks will identify errors in the construction some e.g Pellet also indicate the source of the error and aid in repairing it As a result we are confident that the operational scenario is a sound model The primary use of the Reasoners allows us to significantly extend the explicit RDF model that is created For example a squadron is explicitly specified as assignedTo a wing and that relationship is the inverse of assignedOrg then the system can infer that the wing has the squadron as an assigned organization even though that fact has never been asserted Similarly if the same relationship is defined as a transitive relationship it is possible to infer that a flight that is assigned to the squadron is also assigned to the wing Once we have an operational scenario that has been classified by a Reasoner we then use the completed model to configure the composite system Ilium and the pluggedin systems to execute the simulation We use SPARQL a W3C standard query language designed to access RDFL to extract data from the scenario to create the input files needed to configure the various applications.[36 SELECT name pos long lat alt vis W1HLERE name rdf:type mast SeasLocation name geo:positionedAt pos pos pos:long long pos pos:lat lat pos pos:alt alt name msim:Visible vis  Figure 13 A typical SPARQL query In a similar fashion SPARQL is used to extract data from the scenario to create the necessary Ilium java surrogate control and agents SPARQL can also be used to review the scenario and answer questions that have arisen since the inception of the study At this point we are able execute the scenario with confidence that it will produce reliable results 7 CONCLUSIONS We have developed a methodology and supporting tools for creating an operational scenario that supports the semantic interoperability of an ad hoc collection of legacy applications and extends their capabilities The method depends on and ensures the logical integrity of the composite system Therefore when we assemble as a collection of legacy component systems that were not originally intended to interoperate with other systems we can be confidant that the composite system will produce consistent results Logical consistency implies that to the degree that we trust the interpretation underlying the model the results of operations on the model are trustworthy If for example the model is based on a Newtonian interpretation of physics the model ought to provide reliable answers to questions about automotive and even aeronautical engineering but probably not to all questions in astronomy or cosmology This methodology extends the utility of trusted simulations allowing integration of finegrained simulations that are sensitive to design requirements with high level coarse-grained simulations that are sensitive to acquisition issues and policy The potential benefits of 14 


this sort of interoperation may range from obvious production efficiencies to clearer insights into system requirements Finally an important side-effect of the approach is the OWL/RDF knowledge base formed by the combination of the operational scenario and the results of the operations of the legacy systems That knowledge base and the use of SPARQL queries and SWRL rules effectively expands the functionality of the system and greatly improves the analysis of the output of the system of cooperating simulations and tools We have prepared a foundation for the application of Semantic Web and other knowledge based tools in the analysis and design of unmanned systems We anticipate the development and application of these tools and the addition of autonomy directed Multiple Agent Systems MAS that use RDF/XML inter-agent communications in the coming year REFERENCES 1 NAFCAM 2001 Exploiting EManufacturing:Ineroperability of Software Systems Used by U.S Manufacturers available at 12 Protege Ontology Editor documentation available at http proteae.stanf6rd.edu 13 Top Braid Composer Datasheet available at 14 W and Nicola Guarino 2001 Support for Ontological Analysis of Taxonomic Relationships J Data and Knowled 39\(1 October 2001 15 Natalya F Noy and Deborah L McGuinness Ontology Development 10 1 A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology  Stanford University Stanford CA 94305 16 Alan Rector Modularisation of Domain Ontologies Implemented in Description Logics and related formalisms including OWL K-CAP'03 October 23-25 2003 Sanibel Island Florida USA pp 121-8 2003 17 Cyc Homepage available at htc.c 18 Open Cyc home page available at 19 SUMO Description and Home Page available at 19 SENSUS Description and Home Page available at 2 Bemers-Lee Tim Hendler Jim Lasilla Ora The Semantic Web Scientific American available at 20 DOLCE A Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering ontology and documents available at 3 Bemers-Lee Tim Blog on Design Issues available at 4 RDF Primer available at s chema/#ref-rdf-primer 5 Lacey Lee OWL Representing Information Using the Web Ontology Language Trafford Publishing 2005 6 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at Jten pHomewPage availal adt 7 Jena Home Page available at 8 Protege Home Page available at h1ttp  protegest nftanford.edu,X 1 9 Baader Calvanese McGuiness Nardi and PatelSchnieder Description Logic Handbook 10 Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at 21 Nicola Gauarino Claudio Masolo Stefano Borgo Aldo Gangemi and Alessandro Oltramari Ontology Infrastructure for the Semantic Web Wonder World Deliverable DI 8 Laboratory for Applied Ontology Trento Italy 2001 available on line at ht X1t1 22 DUL.owl ontology available at www.1oa23t og DLl 23 Amy Knutilla Steven Polyak Craig Schlenoff Austin Tate Shu Chiun Cheah Steven Ray and Richard Anderson Process Specification Language An Analysis of Existing Representations NIST report available at http llwww.mel.nlist.gov/msid.librarZ/d.oc/psl-1 _.df 24 Process Specification Language Ontology available at http-//www,55,me l.nit gov/psl 25 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 owl ontology available at ok i.cae.drexel.edu./-wbs/onltology/2004/09/ogc-gmI1 26 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 of Open GIS Consortium OGC Home Page available at 15 


 Peter Maguire Using THUNDER for Campaign Studies DSTO-TN-0303 DSTO Melbourne August 2000 28 User Manual SEAS Version 3.7 U.S Air Force SMC/XR February 2007 29 Bijan Parsia and Evren Sirin Pellet and OWL DL Reasoner MINDSWAP Research Group University of Maryland College Park available at 30 Pellet Home Page available at 31 FaCT Home Page available at 32 OWLIM Home Page available at 3 A SPARQL Tutorial available at BIOGRAPHY Douglas Holmes is co-founder and Senior Partner of Java Professionals Inc In the past twenty-two years he has managed and participated in numerous artificial intelligence and knowledge-based programs for DARPA and other research agencies as well as commercial applications in the petroleum and other sectors He is currently developing ontologies and applying Semantic Web technology to support research and development of military unmanned systems He also has over twenty years experience as an Air Force Fighter Pilot and Fighter Weapons School Instructor Mr Holmes has a B.S in Mathematics and Basic Sciences from the U.S Air Force Academy and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Golden Gate University Richard Stocking is the lead Program Investigator/PM for Net Centric Operations Warfare Analysis efforts for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently leading efforts researching autonomous UAV operations Current efforts include the integration of Multiple Agent Systems and other autonomy systems within the Ilium Framework He has over thirty years experience and over 11,000 flight hours with multiple C4ISR systems in the US Army and US Navy Mr Stocking has a M.S in Systems Technology from the Naval Postgraduate School 16 


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


