Proceedings of the International Conference on Communication and Computational Intelligence ñ 2010 Kongu Engineering College, Perundurai, Erode, T.N.,India.27 ñ 29 December,2010.pp.99-103  99  Privacy Preserving Da ta Mining Based on Association Rule- A Survey S.Vijayarani 1 Dr.A.Tamilarasi 2 R.SeethaLakshmi 3 1 School of Computer Science and Engg Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, Tamilnadu,India 2 Dept. of MCA, Kongu Engg. College, Erode, Tamilnadu, India 1 vijimohan_2000@yahoo.com 3 r.seetha87@gmail.com   Abstract  Data mining is the process of extracting hidden 
information from the database. Data mining is emerging as one of the key features of many business organizations. The current trend in business collaboration shares the data and mined results to gain mutual benefit. The problem of privacy-preserving data mining has become more important in recent years because of the increasing ability to store personal data about users, and the increasing sophistication of data mining algorithms to leverage this information. Apart from classification and regression, one of the most important tasks of data mining is to find patterns in 
data. In particular, new advances in data mining and knowledge discovery that allow for the extraction of hidden knowledge in enormous amount of data impose new threats on the seamless integration of information. In this paper, we consider the problem of building privacy preserving algorithms for one category of data mining techniques, the association rule mining   Keywords Data Mining, Privacy Preserving Data Mining Association rule    I  I NTRODUCTION  Data mining is a recently emerging field, connecting the 
three worlds of Databases, Artificial Intelligence and Statistics. The information age has enabled many organizations to gather large volumes of data. However, the usefulness of this data is negligible if ìmeaningful informationî or ìknowledgeî cannot be extracted from it Data mining, otherwise known as knowledge discovery attempts to answer this need. In contrast to standard statistical methods, data mining techniques search for interesting  information without demanding a priori hypotheses. Privacypreserving data mining considers the problem of running data mining algorithms on confidential data that is not supposed to 
be revealed even to the party running the algorithm. There are two classic settings for privacy-preserving data mining although these are by no means the only ones In the first, the data is divided among two or more different parties; the aim being to run a data mining algorithm on the union of the parties' databases without allowing any party to view another individual's private data. A classical example of a privacy-preserving data mining Problem of the first type occurs in the field of medical research. Consider the case of a number of different hospitals that wish to jointly mine their patient data for the purpose of medical research. Furthermore let us assume that privacy policy and law prevents these hospitals from ever pooling their data or revealing it to each 
other, due to the confidentiality of patient records. This is another example where privacy-preserving data mining could be used to balance real privacy concerns with the needs of governments to carry out important research Association rule algorithms produce thousands of rules many of which are redundant \(Li & Zhang, 2003; McGarry 2005\ order to filter the rules, the user generally supplies a minimum threshold for support and confiden u pport  and confidence are basic measures of association rule interestingness. Additionally, these are the most common measures of interest. However, generating rules that meet minimum thresholds for support and confidence may not be interesting. This is because rules are often produced that are 
already known by a user who is familiar with the application domain. The challenge in association rule mining \(ARM essentially becomes one of determining which rules are the most interesting. With so many interestingness rules to choose from, it is difficult to determine which one to use for a given domain. This problem is exacerbated by the fact that different interestingness measures produce different results for the same data set, thus making it difficult for the user to interpret the measures \(McGarry, 2005 The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 we present an overview of Association rule mining. Section 3 discusses about association rule techniques. Section 4 gives a review on Association rule hiding in privacy preserving data 
mining .Section 5 discusses about interesting measures in Association rule mining.  Analyses of papers are given in Section 6.Conclusion are given in section 7 II  A SSOCIATION R ULE M INING  Association rule hiding refers to the process of modifying the original database in such a way that certain sensitive association rules disappear without seriously affecting the data and the non-sensitive rules. Association rule 


Privacy Preserving Data Mining Based on Association Rule- A Survey  100  mining is defined as: Let be a set of n binary attributes called items Let be a set of transactions called the database Each transaction in D has a unique transaction ID and contains a subset of the items in I A rule is defined as an implication of the form X Y where and The sets of items \(for short item sets  X and Y are called antecedent left-hand-side or LHS\ and consequent right-hand-side or RHS\ of the rule respectively   The support supp X of an item set X is defined as the proportion of transactions in the data set which contain the item set. In the example database, the item set {milk, bread has a support of 2 / 5 = 0.4 since it occurs in 40% of all transactions \(2 out of 5 transactions   The confidence of a rule is defined  For example the rule has a confidence of 0.2 / 0.4 = 0.5 in the database, which means that for 50% of the transactions containing milk and bread the rule is correct Yehuda Lindell, Benny Pinkas introduce The issue of privacy preserving data mining. Specifically, we consider a scenario in which two parties owning confidential databases wish to run a data mining algorithm on the union of their databases, without revealing any unnecessary information This work is motivated by the need to both protect privileged information and enable its use for research or other purposes The above problem is a specific example of secure multiparty computation and as such, can be solved using known generic protocols. However, data mining algorithms are typically complex and, furthermore, the input usually consists of massive data sets. The generic protocols in such a case are of no practical use and therefor e more efficient protocols are required. We focus on the problem of decision tree learning with the popular ID3 algorithm. Our protocol is considerably more efficient than generic solutions and demands both very few rounds of communication and reasonable bandwidth Lee and Siau captures Data mining algorithms should be flexible enough to deal with data from different sources Finally, a major concern within data mining today is the threat to privacy and data security. This is because data mining makes it easy to establish profiles of individuals based on data from multiple sources One research team \(Lee & Siau, 2001\tlined the requirements and challenges associated with data mining   Data mining must be able to handle different types of data   Data mining algorithms must be scalable and efficient   Data mining must be able to handle noisy and missing data   Data mining techniques should present results in a way that is easy to understand   Data mining techniques should support requests at different levels of granularity. That is, data   mining can be done at different levels of abstraction Murat Kantarcioglu, Chris Clifton proposed Data mining can extract important knowledge from large data collections These collections are split among various parties. Privacy concerns may prevent the partie s from directly sharing the data and some types of informationís about the data. This addresses secure mining of association rule over horizontally partitioned data.[7  T h e m e t h o d s i n co rp o r ate cry p to g r ap h i c  techniques to minimize the information shared, while adding little overhead to the mining task Matthew Eric Otey, Chao Wang, Srinivasan Parthasarathy Adriano Veloso, Wagner Meria introduce Traditional methods for frequent itemset mining typically assume that details centralized and static. Such method supposes excessive communication overhead when data is distributed, and they waste computational resources when data is dynamic. First unified approach that overcomes these assumptions. These approaches makes use of parallel and incremental technique to generate frequent itemsets in the presence of data updates without examining the entire database and imposes minimal communication overhead when mining distributed databases These approaches are able to generate both local and global frequent itemsets. [5 T h is ab ilit y p e r m its o u r ap p r o ach to  identify high contrast frequent item sets, which allows one to examine how the data is skewed over different sites Juliano Brito Da Justa, Marina Teresa Pires Vieria, Marina Teresa, Pires Vieira introduce Parallel and distributed association rule mining are very important research subjects with various work addressing them. Data skewness, which describes the degree of non-uniformity of the itemset distribution among database partitions, causes various problems to parallel and distributed association rule mining algorithms, such as the generation of many false candidate itemsets. Some algorithms employ techniques in order to not only overcome these problems but also to take advantage of data skewness with the purpose of improving their performance. For instance, some algorithms employ skewness based pruning techniques. In the literature, an entropy-based metric has been used for measuring data skewness. A method for identifying skewed itemsets which uses tests of statistical hypotheses T h i s  m e t h od h a s s o m e adv a nt ag e s ov er t h e entropy-based method and can also be used in environments with privacy-preserving constraints Gediminas Adomavicius, Alexander Tuzhilin proposed an overview of the field of recommender systems and describes the current generation of recommendation methods that are usually classified into the following three main categories 2005\ontent-based, collaborative, and hybrid recommendation approaches. The various limitations of current recommendation methods and discusses possible extensions that can improve recommendation capabilities and make recommender systems applicable to an even broader 


Proceedings of the International Conference on Communication and Computational Intelligence ñ 2010  101  range of applications. These extensions include, among others an improvement of understanding of users and items incorporation of the contextual information into the recommendation process, support for multcriteria ratings, and a provision of more flexible and less intrusive types of recommendations Kotsiantis and Kanellopoulos proposed Association rule mining is a category of data mining tasks that correlate a set of items with other sets of items in a database. Association rules aim to extract interesting correlations, frequent patterns associations or causal structures among sets of items in the transaction databases or other repositories Sheng Zhong introduces Standard algorithms for association rule mining is based on identification of frequent itemsets. How to maintain privacy in distributed mining of frequent itemsets. Two \(or more\ can find frequent itemsets in a distributed database without revealing each party's portion of the data to the othe h e ex i s t i n g  solution for vertically partitioned data leaks a significant amount of information, while the existing solution for horizontally partitioned data only works for three parties or more. The design algorithms for both vertically and horizontally partitioned Dan Bogdanov , Richard Sassoon proposed The statistical analysis of data warehouses, i.e., repositories for an organizationís data, is used for finding patterns or trends that are useful in decision making. This process is often called data mining. One way to use such data is through collaborative ltering, in which suggestions are given to a user based on previous transactions of other users. The question of privacy in this context is important, since one doesnít want to disclose his private transaction in order to perform this analysis. This is so even, if disclosing this information gives the user to some service. An alternative solution to cryptographic and statistical randomization algorithms for privacy preserving associationrule mining for collaborative, ltering applications. [3 h is is achieved by using a multi-purpose framework Mohammad Naderi Dehkordi, Kambiz Badie, Ahmad Khadem Zadeh proposed Extracting of knowledge form large amount of data is an important issue in data mining systems One of most important activities in data mining is association rule mining and the new head for data mining research area is privacy of mining T oday as s o ci at i o n ru l e  m i n i ng h a s been  a hot research topic in Data Mining and security area. A lot of research has done in this area but most of them focused on perturbation of original database heuristically. Therefore the final accuracy of released database falls down intensely. In addition to accuracy of database the main aspect of security in this area is privacy of database that is not warranted in most heuristic approaches, perfectly. In this paper introduce new multi-objective method for hiding sensitive association rules based on the concept of genetic algorithms. [6 h e m a in  purpose of this method is fully supporting security of database and keeping the utility and certainty of mined rules at highest level Aris Gkoulalas- Divanis, Member, IEEE, and Vassilios S.Verykios, Member , IEEî proposed a novel, exact borderbased approach that provides an optimal solution for the hiding of sensitive frequent item sets by 1\minimally extending the original database by a synthetically generated database partóthe database extension, 2\ormulating the creation of the database extension as a constraint satisfaction problem, 3\mapping the constraint satisfaction problem to an equivalent binary integer programming problem, 4\exploiting underutilized synthetic transac tions to proportionally increase the support of nonsensitive item sets, 5\minimally relaxing the constraint satisfaction problem to provide an approximate solution close to the optimal one when an ideal solution does not exist, and 6\ using a partitioning in the universe of the items to increase the efficiency of the proposed hiding algorithm. Extending the original database for sensitive item set hiding is proved to provide optimal solutions to an extended set of hiding problems compared to previous approaches and to provide solutions of higher quality.[2  Moreover, the application of binary integer programming enables the simultaneous hiding of the sensitive itemsets and thus allows for the identification of globally optimal solutions  III  A SSOCIATION R ULE T ECHNIQUES  There are different types of algorithms in association rules namely   A Priori algorithm   Partition algorithm   Pincher-search algorithm   Dynamic item set counting algorithm   FP-TREE growth algorithm  A  Apriori Algorithm Apriori algorithm is the most popular algorithm to find all the frequent sets. It makes use of the downward closure property. Apriori algorithm is a bottom-up search, moving upward level-wise in the lattice. Before   reading the database at every level it graciously prunes many of the sets which are unlikely to be frequent sets The apriori frequent item set discovery algorithm uses the two functions namely \(candidate generation and pruning\ at every iteration. It moves upward in the lattice starting from level I till level k, where no candidate set remains after pruning.[10   B  Partition Algorithm The partition algorithm is based on the premise that the size of the global candidate set is considerably smaller than the set of all possible itemsets. As a result if we partition the set of transactions to smaller segments such that each segment can be accommodated in the main memory, then we can compute the set of frequent sets of each of these partitions. It is assumed that these sets contain reasonably a small number of itemsets   


Privacy Preserving Data Mining Based on Association Rule- A Survey  102  C.  Pincer-Search Algorithm The pincher-search computation algorithm starts from the smallest set of frequent itemsets and moves upward till it reaches the largest frequent itemset. The pincher ñsearch Algorithm is based on the principle of finding frequent item sets in a bottom-up manner but, at the same time, it maintains a list of maximal frequent item sets D    Dynamic Itemset Counting Algorithm  The rationale of dynamic set counting algorithm is that it works like a train pruning over the data, with stops at intervals M between transactions. When the train reaches the end of transaction file, it has made one pass over the data, and it starts all over again from the beginning for the next pass  E    FP-Tree Growth Algorithm  The main idea of the algorithm is to maintain a Frequent Pattern Tree of the database. It is an extended prefix-tree structure, storing crucial and quantitative information about frequent sets. In this the tree nodes are the frequent items and are arranged in such a way that more frequently occurring nodes will have better chances of sharing nodes than the less frequently occurring ones. The method starts from frequent1 itemsets as an initial suffix pattern and examines only its conditional pattern base, which consists of the set of frequent items co-occurring with the suffix pattern  IV  I NTERESTINGNESS M EASURES  Interestingness measure produces different results, and experts have different opinions of what constitutes a good rule Lenca, Meyer, Vaillant, & Lallich, 2008\The interestingness of discovered association rules is an important and active area within data mining research \(Geng & Hamilton, 2006\The primary problem is the selection of interestingness measures for a given application domain. However, there is no formal agreement on a definition for what makes rules interesting Association rule algorithms produce thousands of rules, many of which are redundant \(Li & Zhang, 2003; McGarry, 2005 Two important measures within association rule mining are support and confidence Support for an association rule X =>Y is the percentage of transactions in the database that contains X U Y. Confidence for an association rule sometimes denoted as strength, or X => Y is the ratio of the number of transactions that  t ain to t h e n u m b er of  transactions that contain X. \(Dunham, 2003\ In other words support describes how often the rule would appear in the database, while confidence measures the strength of the rule A user establishes minimum support \(minsup\d minimum confidence \(minconf\ules are then generated based on those criteria. Users can select minsup and minconf parameters before or after rule generation. An example follows. Given a database of supermarket transaction data, a rule might be generated that infers milk eggs, with support 40% and confidence = 75%. This means that milk eggs occurred in 40% of the transactions in the database. It also means that 75% of the time that milk occurs, so do eggs. The antecedent for this rule is milk, while the consequent is eggs Larger values of confidence and smaller values of support are normally selected when determining which association rules to keep. A third measure of interestingness is lift. Lift is a measure of the probability of finding the consequent in any random basket. In other words, lift ìmeasures how well the associative rule performs by comparing its performance to the nullî ruleî \(Marakas, 2003, p. 342 An example of an association rule is as follows. 60% of customers that purchase potato chips also purchase soda in the same transaction. Agrawal et al.'s work established a formal model for association rules and establishes algorithms that find large itemsets, confidence, and support of each rule discovered in the itemset. Association rules have been applied to a wide variety of application areas, which will be covered later in this paper. Association rule algorithms can generate thousands of rules, many of which can be redundant. These redundant rules are essentially useless, so researchers have solved this problem by defining new interestingness measures incorporating constraints, or by designing templates to mine for restricted rules \(Xu & Li, 2007\lso, a primary goal of knowledge discovery in databases is to produce interesting rules that can be interpreted by a user \(Lenca et al., 2008   V.  A SSOCIATION R ULE H IDING   Recent years have seen tremendous advances in the ability to perform association rule mining effectively. Such rules often encode important target marketing information about a business. Some of the earliest work on the challenges of association rule mining for database security. Two broad approaches are used for association rule hiding Distortion In distortion h e en tr y  f o r a g i v e n trans acti o n  is modified to a different value. Since, we are typically dealing with binary transactional data sets, the entry value is flipped Blocking In blocking [8 e en tr y is n o t m o d i fied b u t is lef t  incomplete. Thus, unknown entry values are used to prevent discovery of association rules We note that both the distortion and blocking processes have a number of side effects on the non-sensitive rules in the data. Some of the non-sensitive rules may be lost along with sensitive rules, and new ghost rules may be created because of the distortion or blocking process. Such side effects are undesirable since they reduce the utility of the data for mining purposes. A formal proof of the NP-hardness of the distortion method for hiding association rule mining. The techniques are proposed for changing some of the 1-values to 0-values so that the support of the corresponding sensitive rules is appropriately lowered. The utility of the approach was defined by the number of non-sensitive rules whose support was also lowered by using such an approach. This approach was extended in which both support and confidence of the appropriate rules could be lowered. In this case, 0-values in 


Proceedings of the International Conference on Communication and Computational Intelligence ñ 2010  103  the transactional database could also change to 1-values. In many cases, this resulted in spurious association rules \(or a ghost rule\which was an undesirable side effect of the process. A complete description of the various methods for data distortion for association rule hiding. Another interesting piece of work which balances privacy and disclosure concerns of sanitized rules may be found in  The attractiveness of the blocking approach is that it maintains the truthfulness of the underlying data, since it replaces a value with an unknown \(often represented by rather than a false value. Some interesting algorithms for using blocking for association rule hiding. The work has been further extended in w i t h  a di s c u s s i on of t h e e f f e c t i v e n es s  of reconstructing the hidden rules. Another interesting set of techniques for association rule hiding with limited side effects. The objective of this method is to reduce the loss of non-sensitive rules, or the creation of ghost rules during the rule hiding process .It has been discussed how blocking techniques for hiding association rules can be used to prevent discovery of sensitive entries in the data set by an adversary In this case, certain entries in the data are classified as sensitive, and only rules which disclose such entries are hidden. An efficient depth-first association mining algorithm is proposed for this task [8 h a s b een sh o w n th at t h e methods can effectively reduce the disclosure of sensitive entries with the use of such a hiding process  VI. A NALYSIS O F P APER  Data mining can extract important knowledge from large data collection. Association rule mining is a category of data mining tasks that correlate a set of items with other sets of items in a database. The main purpose of this method is fully supporting security of database and keeping the utility and certainty of mined rules at highest level. In recent years advances in hardware technology have lead to an increase in the capability to store and record personal data about consumers and individuals. This has lead to concerns that the personal data may be misused for a variety of purposes. In this paper various communities such as the database community the statistical disclosure control community and the cryptography community techniques are discussed. Now a dayís Privacy preserving data mining has becoming an important factor in association rule mining which has been used in various fields for its efficiency and security  VII. C ONCLUSIONS  Privacy becomes an important factor in data mining so that the sensitive information is not revealed after mining. But the data quality is important such that no false information is provided and the privacy is not jeopardized. Association rule is one category of data mining technique. Other data mining techniques should also be considered for securing both data and knowledge. In future we will give privacy preserving data mining based on association rule using Tabu search optimization technique R EFERENCES  1  Agarwal CC. and Yu PS Privacy-preserving data mining: Models and Algorithms editors\haru C Aggarwal and Philip S. Yu  ISBN: 0-387-70991-8, 2008 2  Aris Gkoulalas Divanis and Vassilios S.Verykios Exact Knowledge hiding through Database Extension IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Vol.21 Issue.5, Pages:699-713, ISSN:1041-4347, 2009 3  Dan Bogdanov, Richard Sassoon Privacy preserving Collaborative itering with Share mind  4  Juliano Brito Da Justa Neves, Mariana Teresa Pires, Mariana Teresa, Pires Vieira A Hypotheses- based Method for identifying Skewed itemsets 2004 5  Matthew Eric Otey, Chao Wang, Srinivasan Parthasarathy Adriano Veloso, Wagner Meria Mining Frequent itemsets in Distributed and Dynamic Databases IEEE international conference on Data Mining, 2003 6  Mohammad Naderi Dehkordi, Kambiz Badie, Ahmad Khadem Zadeh A Novel Method for Privacy preserving in Association rule Mining Based on Genetic Algorithms Journal of Software, Vol.4 No.6, Pages. 555-562, 2009 7  Murat Kantarcioglu, Chris Clifton Privacy preserving Distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Vol.16, No.6 June 2004 8  Oliveira S. R. M., Zaiane O., Saygin Y Secure Association-Rule Sharing Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol.3056, Pages.74-85, 2004 9  Saygin Y., Verykios V., Clifton C Using Unknowns to prevent discovery of Association Rules ACM SIGMOD Record, Vol.30 Issue.4, Special Section on Data Mining for Intrusion Detection and Threat Analysis, Pages.45-54, ISSN: 0163-5808,2001   S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane Privacy preserving frequent itemset mining In Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Privacy, Security and Data Mining \(CRPITS 2002   Sheng Privacy preserving algorithms for distributed mining of frequent itemsets, Published in Information Sciences, 2007    Yehuda Lindell1 and Benny Pinkas Privacy Preserving Data Mining Journal of Cryptology, Vol 15, Number 3, Pages 177-206 DOI: 10.1007/s00145-001-0019-2, Springer, 2008  


It is assumed that the occurrence of abrupt events which map to the abnormal sampling data obey the Poisson distribution with parameter   As shown in Figure 5 on the predictive mode when 0.2    with the rise on value   the inhibition effect on the transmission times can be gradually enhanced and the corresponding energy cost could be effectively reduced While on the general inquiry mode the average transfer times of packets have proportional relation with the increment of   So the energy efficiency could be improved by introducing the predictive mode into data-gathering filtering mechanism of sensor networks    0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50  Poisson distribution parameter  Average transfer times of packets Prediction mode   General inquiry mode Figure 5 Poisson parameter vs. times of transmission 5 Conclusion In this paper the feature of temporal correlation on time series data is utilized to design novel energy-efficient filtering mechanism in data gathering of sensor networks subject to QoS constraints By diminishing the temporal redundancy on time series prediction-mode-based filtering mechanism is designed to solve the problem of energy waste caused by the transmission of time-redundant loads The operation processes of filtering mechanism can construct and modify the predictive model via self-learning on sampling series to accurately capture the changing law of time domain meanwhile allocation rule on prediction accuracy threshold and prediction-error-driven rule are introduced into the design of filtering scheme where tunable prediction threshold is determined based on node energy status and internal information which is included in the data variation patterns precisely obtained according to prediction error bound The above design idea is to further improve the filtering effect on time redundancy data The experiment results show that the proposed energy-saving filtering mechanism can effectively reduce the energy cost of data gathering mechanism by mining the temporal redundancy and associability Acknowledgements The work is supported by foundation pro ject of S tate Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology at Nanjing University KFKT2009B18 and Science Found ation for the Excellent Youth Scholars at East China University of Science and Technology\(YH0157127 Reference 1 Y i d e Z h a n g  Z h a o ro ng Z h o u  A c o m p re he ns i v e s t u d y o f data gathering system in Wireless Sensor Networks Proc of IEEE ICCCAS China pp 191-195 2009 2 A n as tas i G   C o n ti  M  D i F r a n c e s co  M  D a t a collection in sensor networks with Data Mules an integrated simulation analysis Proc of IEEE ISCC 2008 USA pp 1096 1102 2008 3 M L iu  H G  G o n g  Y  C M ao  L J  C h e n  A D is t r ib u t e d Energy-Efficient Data Gathering and Aggregation Protocol for Wireless Sensor Networks Journal of Software Vol 16 No.12 pp.2106ä2116 2005 4 V  R a g h u n ath an  S  G an e r i w a l  C  S c h u r g e r  E 2 WF Q  An energy efficient fair scheduling policy for wireless systems International Symposium on Low Power Electronics and Design ISLPEDê02 pp.30Ö35 2002 5 L o y o la L   D e S o u za T  W id me r  J   F r a g o u l i  C  Network-Coded Broadcast from Canonical Networks to Random Topologies NetCod 2008 Fourth Workshop on Network Coding Theory and Applications pp 1-6 2008 6 S ilb e r s t e i n  A  Y a n g  J  M a n y t o M a n y A g g r e g atio n f o r Sensor Networks IEEE ICDE pp 986 995 2007  W u  Y   F a hm y  S   S hr o f f  N  O n t h e C o n s t ruc t i o n o f a Maximum-Lifetime Data Gathering Tree in Sensor Networks NP-Completeness and Approximation Algorithm IEEE INFOCOM 2008 pp.356-360 2008  K h a n  M  P a n du ra n g a n  G  D i s t r i b ut e d A l go ri t h m s f o r Constructing Approximate Minimum Spanning Trees in Wireless Sensor Networks IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems Vol 20 No.1 pp 124Ö139 2009 9 R a j a g o p ala n  R   V a r s h n e y  P  D a ta A g g r e g at io n Techniques in Sensor Networks A Survey Communication Surveys and Tutorials 2006 Vol 8 No.4 pp 48Ö63 2006  W  H L i a o  Y K a o  C M F a n  D a t a a g g r e g a t i o n i n wireless sensor networks using ant colony algorithm J Netw Comput Appl 2008 Vol 31 No.4 pp.387Ö401  H C h e n H M i n e n o  A d a p t i v e da t a a g g r e g a t i o n s c h e m e in clustered wireless sensor networks Computer 84 Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Qingdao, 11-14 July 2010 


Communication Review Vol 31 No.15 pp.3579Ö3585 2008  M C h e n T K w o n e t a l   M o b i l e A g e n t B a s e d W i r e l e s s Sensor Networks Journal of Computers Vol 5 No.2 pp 14Ö21 2006  G a n e s a n D e t a l  C o p i n g w i t h i r r e gul a r s p a t i o t e m po r a l sampling in sensor networks ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review Vol 34 No.1 pp.125-130 2004  Co h e n L  A v r a h a m i B a ki s h G e t a l  R e a l t i m e d a t a mining of non-stationary data streams from sensor networks Information Fusion Elsevier Vol 9 No.3 pp 344-353 2008  X W a n g J M a  S W a ng D B i  T i m e S e ri e s F o r e c a s t i n g Energy-efficient Organization of Wireless Sensor Networks IEEE Sensors Journal Vol 7 No.1 pp 1766-1792 2007  Y X u J W i n t e r W C Lee Dual prediction-based reporting for object tracking sensor networks. 1 st Annual International Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Systems Networking and Services USA pp.154-163 2004  X D a i  F X i a  Z W a ng Y S u n  A n E n e r g y E f f i c i e n t In-Network Aggregation Query Algorithm for Wireless Sensor Networks Proc of the 1 st International Conference on Innovative Computing Information and Control China pp 255-258 2006 85 Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Qingdao, 11-14 July 2010 


        


9 Appendix Fig 6: Forest Cover Types of the U.S. \(Source. USGS National Atlas of US Summary of Forest Cover Type Data Type Multivariate Abstract The forest cover type for 30 x 30 meter cells obtai ned from US Forest Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS\ data Data Characteristics The actual forest cover type for a given observatio n \(30 x 30 meter cell\ was determined from US Fores t Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS data Independe nt variables were derived from data originally obta ined from US Geological Survey \(USGS\ and USFS data. Data is in raw form \(not scaled\ and contains binary \(0 or 1 columns of data for qualitative independent variables \(wilderness areas and soil types Summary Statistics Number of instances observations 581012 Number of Attributes 54 Attribute breakdown 12 measures, but 54 columns of data \(10 quantitativ e variables, 4 binary wilderness areas and 40 binary soil type variables Missing Attribute Values None 43 


   C4.2 Open GL has excellent documentation that could help the developer learn the platform with ease C4.3 Developer has very little ex perience in working with Open GL platform  For our case study, alternative B i.e. Adobe Director was the most favorable alternative amongst all the three. It catered to the reusability criteria quite well and aimed at meeting most of the desired operational requirements for the system   6. CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK  The main contribution of this paper is to develop an approach for evaluating performance scores in MultiCriteria decision making using an intelligent computational argumentation network. The evaluation process requires us to identify performance scores in multi criteria decision making which are not obtained objectively and quantify the same by providing a strong rationale. In this way, deeper analysis can be achieved in reducing the uncertainty problem involved in Multi Criteria decision paradigm. As a part of our future work we plan on conducting a large scale empirical analysis of the argumentation system to validate its effectiveness   REFERENCES  1  L  P Am g o u d  U sin g  A r g u men ts f o r mak i n g an d  ex p lain in g  decisions Artificial Intelligence 173 413-436, \(2009 2 A  Boch m a n   C ollectiv e A r g u men tatio n    Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning 2002 3 G  R Bu y u k o zk an  Ev alu a tio n o f sof tware d e v e lo p m en t  projects using a fuzzy multi-criteria decision approach Mathematics and Computers in Simualtion 77 464-475, \(2008 4 M T  Chen   F u zzy MCD M A p p r o ach t o Selec t Serv ice  Provider The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy 2003 5 J. Con k li n  an d  M. Beg e m a n   gIBIS: A Hypertext Tool for Exploratory Policy Discussion Transactions on Office Information Systems 6\(4\: 303  331, \(1988 6 B P  Duarte D e v elo p in g a p r o jec ts ev alu a tio n sy ste m based on multiple attribute value theroy Computer Operations Research 33 1488-1504, \(2006 7 E G  Fo rm an  T h e  A n a l y t ic Hier a rch y P r o cess A n  Exposition OR CHRONICLE 1999 8 M. L ease  an d J L  L i v e l y  Using an Issue Based Hypertext System to Capture Software LifeCycle Process Hypermedia  2\(1\, pp. 34  45, \(1990 9  P e id e L i u   E valu a tio n Mo d e l o f Custo m e r Satis f a c tio n o f  B2CE Commerce Based on Combin ation of Linguistic Variables and Fuzzy Triangular Numbers Eight ACIS International Conference on Software Engin eering, Artificial Intelligence Networking and Parallel Distributed Computing, \(pp 450-454 2007  10  X  F L i u   M an ag e m en t o f an In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  Network for a Web-Based Collaborative Engineering Design Environment Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems,\(CTS 2007\, Orlando, Florida May 21-25, 2007 11 X. F L i u   A n In ternet Ba se d In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  System for Collaborative Engineering Design Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems pp. 318-325\. Las Vegas, Nevada 2006 12 T  M A sub jec tiv e assess m e n t o f altern ativ e m ission  architectures for the human exploration of Mars at NASA using multicriteria decision making Computer and Operations Research 1147-1164, \(June 2004 13 A  N Mo n ireh  F u zzy De cisio n Ma k i n g b a se d o n  Relationship Analysis between Criteria Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society 2005 14 N  P a p a d ias HERMES Su p p o rti n g A r g u m e n tative  Discourse in Multi Agent Decision Making Proceedings of the 15th National Conference on Artifical Intelligence \(AAAI-98  pp. 827-832\dison, WI: AAAI/MIT Press,  \(1998a 15  E. B T riantaph y llo u   T h e Im p act o f  Ag g r e g atin g Ben e f i t  and Cost Criteria in Four MCDA Methods IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol 52, No 2 May 2005 16 S  H T s a u r T h e Ev alu a tio n o f airlin e se rv ice q u a lity b y  fuzzy MCDM Tourism Management 107-115, \(2002 1 T  D W a n g  Develo p in g a f u zz y  T O P S IS app r o ach  b a sed  on subjective weights and objective weights Expert Systems with Applications 8980-8985, \(2009 18 L  A  Zadeh  F u z z y Sets   Information and Control 8  338-353, \(1965  152 


                        





