_____________________________________________________________ This research work was supported by Shanghai college outstanding young teachers Research Funds \(swm09001 This research work was partially supported by the 085 Project of Shanghai Institute of Foreign Trade 08509009-03 Classification Model Based on Association Rules in Customs Risk Management Application   Wang Yaqin International Business School Shanghai Institute of Foreign Trade Shanghai, China 031021065@fudan.edu.cn Song Yuming School of Economics and Management Tongji University Shanghai, China 
tomisong2000@hotmail.com   Abstract At present, detecting customs declaration frauds with limited examination of imported goods by available scarce resources is posing considerable challenge to the customs authorities world over. Data mining techniques  could be utilized to sift through the past data and develop predictive model for examination of limited goods with higher probability of fraud. This paper puts forward a classification data mining method based on association rules. Following the analysis on customs inspection results and the exploration on the regularity of “non-consistent between customs declaration and actual commodity” by use of data mining based on association 
rules, a classification model is established to predict the risk of commodity through customs clearance and form the reference for customs inspection and monitoring Keywords-Customs; Risk management; Classification model Association rules; Data mining I   I NTRODUCTION  Customs is a main body of a country to administrate the action of importing or exporting commodity and to collect the duties. The customs clearance efficiency and service level not only affects the trade efficiency, but also creates great impact on the investment, employment and even regional economic development. With the rapid development of world economy and international trade, various tariffs and 
non-tariff measures have been removed gradually and business volume of customs has increased substantially. The rapid growth in business volume makes customs be short of administration resources. On the other hand, with the rapid development of economy and trade, the domestic and international markets are integrated gradually and advanced modern enterprise management concept puts forward higher requirements on the efficiency of customs clearance, i.e modern enterprises request customs to speed up customs clearance. Along with the rapid development of customs information technology, customs database has collected vast customs revenue management data especially since H2000 
customs administration system and risk management platform are implemented in all customs of China. These business data cover all the fields in customs administration and present the features of large amount, rapid growth and complex relationship. Hence, data mining at in-depth level on vast customs business data are required to identify the regularity and mode based on the analysis of customs administration demands and port status analysis to help customs staffs make better use of the potential knowledge to put forward monitoring proposals according to actual conditions This paper puts forward a classification data mining method based on association rules. Following the analysis on 
historical customs inspection results, the regularity of inconsistent between customs declaration and actual commodity” is explored by use of data mining based on association rules, and a classification model is established on the basis of these regularities to predict the risks of commodity clearance and form the reference for customs inspection and monitoring and improve the seizure rate in the end. The contents of this paper are as follows: The second section is the related study on current risk analysis techniques for customs. The third section introduces how to establish a classification model based on association rules including association rules mining and classification model generated by association rules. In the fourth section, the 
experiment and the related analysis are made. The fifth section is the summary II  R ELATED W ORK  Association rules and classification are two important data mining technology[2 T h e t a r g et  o f  c l a s s i fi c a t i o n i s t o  establish an accurate classification model to predict the unknown category of data objectives. Presently, many classification methods are based on heuristic search technology, such as the Decision Tree algorithm, Bayes network and some statistical methods. Association rules are proposed by Agrawal etc  A n d a ssoc i at i o n r u l e m i ni ng i s  to identify the data to meet pre-specified frequency and accuracy threshold. The major problem of data mining by 
use of association rules is how to select the interesting rule particularly from the rules found. Association rule mining has no pre-determined objectives, and if the frequency threshold is too low, so there may be many frequent itemsets resulting in many rules. For these rules, some are unremarkable for users but some are very interesting For data mining, the search for association rules is just the start work. The collection of association rules does not present single overall model for systematic ratiocination, but a series of simple models, which can be used to form global 
2010 International Conference on Intelligent System Design and Engineering Application 978-0-7695-4212-6/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ISDEA.2010.276 436 


  data model. The association rules and classification model can be combined to form a list of decision-making or rule collection and create a new classification based on association rules so as to solve classification problems Classification model using simple rules can be traced back to 1R \(or OneR\ [8 l a ssi fi c a t i on a l gor i t h m a p p e a r e d i n 1993  In 1998, Bing Liu presented classification algorithm based on association\(CBA\[4   Th is a l g o r ith m u s es A p ri or i  algorithm to generate classification rules. Afterwards, Han J presented CMAR algorithm using the deformation of FPgrowth method, which is more effective with scalability and higher average accuracy compared with classification algorithm based on association \(CBA\resented by Bing Liu These methods are to integrate data mining and classification to achieve higher classification accuracy than that of traditional classification methods \(e.g. C4.5 III  C LASSIFICATION M ODEL B ASED ON A SSOCIATION R ULES  A  Basic Concepts The establishment of classification model based on association rules includes categorical association rules mining and the processing on the obtained association rules by using a heuristic method in order to structure the classification. Category Association Rules CARs are a kind of special rule collection, and the rule consequents are fixed the attribute of classifications Let I  i 1  i 2  i m be a collection of items, one of the elements i j  j 1,2 m is denoted as \(item C  c 1  c 2  c k  is a collection of classification labels, a category of association rules is a containing type in form of X 000 Y  X 002 I  Y 003 C  D is denoted as the collection of transaction T which is an itemset of I j that contains c k  I j 004 I  c k 003 C Set X is a collection of middle items in I if X 004 T then transaction T  contains X  The support of association rules X 000 Y in the transaction database D is a ratio between the transactions containing X  and Y and all transactions, and the probability of X and Y  occurred simultaneously in all transactions to be support  X 000 Y That is support  X 000 Y  T  X 005 Y 004 T  T 003 D   D The confidence of association rules X 000 Y in the transaction set is the percentage of D containing X and Y  transactions. This is taken to be conditional probability P  Y  X to be confidence X 000 Y That is confidence  X 000 Y  P  Y  X  Rules of support and confidence are two interest measures. They are found in the rules to reflect the usefulness and certainty. Association rules are considered interesting if they satisfy the minimum support thresholds and minimum confidence thresholds. The rule to satisfy the minimum support thresholds and minimum confidence thresholds simultaneously is called a strong rule. Given a transaction set D our goal is to generate all of the CARs sets according to the given minimum support minsup and minimum confidence threshold minconf and then build a classifier according to the generated CARs  B  Generated Association Rules Association rule mining process is generally divided into two sub-issues: a\ find all the support is greater than the minimum support of itemsets, these itemsets are called frequent itemsets; b\ use step 1 to find the rules of frequent itemsets to generate the desired value. The first step frequent itemsets production" is the most critical 1  Frequent Itemset Mining Apriori is one of most influential algorithm for mining frequent itemsets for association rules. Apriori employs an iterative approach known as a level-wise search, where kitemssets are used to explore k+1\itemsets First, the set of frequent 1-itemsets is found. This set is denoted L1 then L1 is used to find L2 the set pf frequent 2-itemsets which is used to find L3 and so on, until no more frequent k-itemsets  can be found. The finding of each Lk requires one full scan of the database Apriori is one of most influential algorithm for mining frequent itemsets for association rules. Apriori employs an iterative approach known as a level-wise search, where kitemssets are used to explore k+1\itemsets First, the set of frequent 1-itemsets is found. This set is denoted L1 then L1  is used to find L2 the set of frequent 2-itemsets which is used to find L3 and so on, until no more frequent k-itemsets  can be found. The finding of each Lk requires one full scan of the database To improve the efficiency of the level-wise generation of frequent itemsets, an important property called the Apriori property. Any non-frequent k-1\-itemsets can not be subset of frequent k-itemsets to determine whether the candidate item in set is frequent. If the \(k-1\ subset of a candidate kitemsets is not in frequent k-1\itemsets then the candidate subset can not be frequent, which can be deleted from kitemsets Therefore, the number of candidate itemsets can be reduced in a certain degree, the search space on frequent itemsets can be deducted effectively, and the number of support calculation can be decreased A two-step iterative process from frequent k-1\itemsets  to frequent k-itemsets is followed, consisting of join and prune actions a  The join step a set of candidate k-itemsets is generated by joining k-1\itemsets with itself b  The prune step frequent k- itemsets is determined by candidate k-itemsets by use of Apriori property to compress candidate k-itemsets  2  Association Rules Generated by Frequent Itemset Frequent itemsets to satisfy the minimum confidence constitute the collection of CARs based on association rules and the generated algorithm is as follows association rules algorithm generated by frequent itemset Input all the frequent itemsets and minimum confidence minconf Output categorical association rules CARs  begin 1\ The category attribute values are denoted as the consequent of the rules \(category attribute Y and the 
437 


  combination of remaining attribute values as the antecedent of the rules to generate the rules 2\alculate the confidence of every rule confidence  X 000 Y Y|X support  X 005 Y  support  X  Among them support  X 005 Y the transactions record number of X 005 Y itemset, and support  X e transactions record number of X  If confidence X 000 Y  minconf is to retain the rule, or delete the rule 3\ a certain set of association rule is lack in categorical association rules CARs the minimum confidence minconf is adjust ed automatically to the maximum in this rule, and then execute 2 again end C  Classification Model Establishment Based on Association Rules In order to build the best classifier on the obtained rules the rules with the least errors are selected. Set R to be all of the generated rules and D is the training data. The basic purpose of the algorithm is to select some rules of relatively higher priority from R to replace D Hereby, priority here is defined as: two rules are given r i and r j as well as r i 000 r j i.e the priority of r i is higher than that of r j must satisfy one of the following conditions   if the confidence of r i is higher than that of r j    the confidence of r i and r j is the same, but the support of r i is higher than that of r j    both the confidence and support of r i and r j are the same, but the generated time of r i is earlier that that of \(namely the former of rules has fewer attributes The form of classifier is established as follows r 1  r 2   r n  default_class Hereby r j 003 R if b  a then r a 000 r b  default_class is the default classification. In the classification of an unknown transaction, the first to meet this rule can be classified into this transaction. If not, this transaction is classified as the default classification The establishment of classifier consists of three steps as follows   Arrange all the rules of R in descending order according to relations. This ensures that the classifier can select the rules with the highest priority   For each rule r 003 R the cases can be selected in D to replace r i.e. they satisfy the former attribute values of rule r If r can be classified correctly at least, r can replace a transaction, and it is a potential rule of the classifier. For those transactions that can be classified, they are moved away from D For the transactions in D that can not be replaced by rule r default_class is marked. And then the quantity of transactions classified by the classifier and default classification category. Hereby default_class refers to the classification attributed by the majority of transactions remained in D    Abandon the rules not to improve the classifier accuracy, and the classifier is made up of the remained non-abandoned rules and default_class  together IV  C LASSIFICATION M ODEL A PPLIED IN C USTOMS R ISK M ANAGEMENT  A  Classification Model Establishment of Customs Inspection The classification model based on association rules is established by use of information of customs inspection to be applied in customs risk management. The customs inspection information table records the customs inspection results such as correct declaration, weight discrepancies incompatible production countries, different consignors and consignees, incorrect commodity classification, incompatible declaration prices etc. According to comprehensive analysis of these inspection results, the enterprise type, commodity classification, trade partner, commodity flow and trading method etc. mentioned in customs declaration form are selected as risk factors to extract sample data for mining, as shown in figure 1  Figure 1  Customs Inspection Data Table The mining method based on association rules can adjust the minimum support and minimum confidence adaptively resulting in an optimal classification model. The establishment of classification model based on association rules mainly consists of the following steps 1\Preprocessing the data 2\erate all categories of association rules 3\uild a classifier based on the generated association rules 4\lassify the unknown classification data by use of the classifier Because transaction data to be unsuitable for data mining is stored in the database, these original data is required for preprocessing. For the continuous attribute values, they are required to be discrete such as the attribute of “price”. In order to facilitate the classification mining based on association rules to generate meaningful association rules these original data is also required for attribute specification For example, ten conditions with unusual inspection result attribute occur in the experiment data. Only several records for some types is not conducive to the discovery of association rules, which requires attribute specification on inspection result types. All the inspection results with 
438 


  abnormal attribute values are classified into “inconsistent declaration B  Explemetion and result analysis A certain customs inspection data in total 26613 samples is adopted in this experiment, in which 2500 samples are identified to be inconsistent between customs declaration and actual commodity and the seized rate reaches 9.4%. The ultimate purpose of experiment is to establish a classification model based on association rules for real-time monitoring on classification in customs inspection. The experiment includes classification mining based on association rules mining and the establishment of classification model  Figure 2  Association Rules Collection Generated by Apriori Algorithm Classification mining based on association rules can generate different sets of rules collection according to different minimum support and minimum confidence. And the selection of minimum support and minimum confidence depends on classification accuracy of established classification model. The results of mining association rules by use of Apriori algorithm in the support of 2% and the confidence of 20% are shown in Figure 2. Due to the customs seized rate less than 10%, the support and confidence can not be set too high. Otherwise, those small models may be ignored TABLE I  C LASSIFICATION T ESTING BY U SE OF D IFFERENT A SSOCIATION R ULES  minsup minconf the number of rules the classification accuracy 1% 60 76 81.3 1% 36 115 75.2 1% 20 128 67.8 2% 60 34 82.6 2% 36 45 77.1 2% 20 68 69.2  To make the classification accuracy achieve optimal threshold, this problem can be resolved through repeated tests. Different support and confidence is required to be set and the generated model is required to be tested and evaluated whether accord with the required accuracy or not Association rules generated in different support and confidence are shown in TABLE I, which also includes the classification testing results by use of these association rules It can be seen from TABLE I that the accuracy of classification model generated by use of classification method based on association rules is not very high. The main reason is that the experimental data is lack of some important attributes, for instance, “commodity type” is also an important risk factor, but this attribute is not identified in the experimental data. On the other hand, it is related to the characteristics of customs inspection data collection. Due to the customs seized rate of “abnormal seizure” less than 10 it is difficult to establish classification model based on this set of data V  C ONCLUSION  This paper puts forward a classification data mining method based on association rules. Following the analysis on historical customs inspection results, deep patterns and regularities are explored by use of data mining based on association rules, and a classification model is established on the basis of these regularities to predict the risks of commodity clearance. The customs supervision can use the potential knowledge to put forward the customs inspection and monitoring proposals to local conditions. The experiment in this paper shows that this classification model based on association rules can achieve good results in customs inspection data collection  R EFERENCES   1  Agrawal R 9 Skirant R Fast, “Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Large Databases”, IBM Research Report RJ9839, San Jose California: IBM Almaden Research Center, 1994 2  Han J W, Kamber M, Data mining:concepts and technique [M 9 beijing 9 Morgan Kafmann Publishers 9 200l 3  Lent B 9 Swami A 9 Widom J, Clustering association rules 9 In:Proc of the 13 International Conference on Data Engineering,Birmingham, 1997:220—231 4  Liu B 9 Hsu W 9 Ma Y, Integrating Classification and Association Rule Mining[C 9 In:Proc of the 4th International Conference On Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 9 New York 9 1998 5  Liu B 9 Ma Y, Wong K, Improving an Association Rule Based Classi—tier[C 9 In:Proc of the 4th European Conference on Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases 9 Lyon 9 2000 6  Agrawal R 2Srikant R 9 Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules[C 9 In:Proc of the 20th Intemational Conference on Very large Databases 9 Santiago,Chile,1994,9:487~499 7  Feng Ye, Gengui Zhou, Jinqiu Lu, A BP Neural Network Approach on Risk,IEEE, 2007, 1-4244-1312-5 8  Holte CR 9 very simple classification rules performwell on most commonly used dataseB 9 Machine Learning 9 1993 9 11\:63—90 9  
439 


2063 


different approach to associative classification in that it does not directly use the rules generated by ARM, but only uses the frequent itemsets and their respective counts to build a classifier using a FOIL-like technique called PRM. Even before the advent of associative classifiers, many nonassociative classifiers were proposed, prominent of which is C4.5, which is a widely known decision tree classifi  and Ri  The principle of maximum entropy has been widely used for a variety of natural language tasks [22  A C M E  1 6  use s  it for binary data classification with mined frequent itemsets as constraints, discusses the failure of maximum entropy model to accommodate closed constraints, and proposes solutions to this problem. In fact, closed itemsets were first defined by Zaki in Thabtah in prov i d es a v e ry det a i l e d su rv e y of cu rre n t  associative classification algorithms. The author has compared most of the well-known algorithms, like CBA CMAR, and CPAR among others, highlighting their pros and cons, and describing briefly how exactly they work. He lays more emphasis on pruning techniques, rule ranking, and predication methods used in various classifiers, and also provides valuable insights into the future directions which should be undertaken in associative classification In [6 ller m eier p r o v id es a d etailed o v erv i e w o f fu zz y  methods as applied to data-mining. De Cock et  al 1 a nd Chen et  al  s c us s i n det a i l abou t  fu zz y i m p l i cat ors a n d  t-norms for discovering fuzzy association rules and also talk in depth about new measures of rule quality which would help the overall fuzzy ARM process. In fact, Dubois et. al  13 m a ke a  ve r y d e t a i l e d a n a l ysi s o f t no r m s a n d implicators with respect to fuzzy partitions, and provide a firm theoretical basis for their conclusions. Verlinde et. al   des c ri be v e ry bri e f l y des c ri be a preproces s i ng  technique, to obtain fuzzy attributes from numerical attributes, using FCM [11  FR a f u zz y e x te n s ion of R I P P E R bas e learn e r round robin scheme\nd the recently introduced R3 learner FURIA [25 ex te n d s th e w e ll k n o w n  RIP P E R alg o rith m  a n d  learns fuzzy rules instead of conventional rules and unordered rule sets instead of rule lists. The structural learning algorithm in vague environment \(SLAVE algorithm makes use of genetic algorithms to learn a fuzzy classifi    VI. PERFORMANCE STUDY In this section, we describe the performance study model that has been used for testing FACISME using three mostwidely-used disparate UCI Machine Learning \(ML\ datasets namely iris, breast, and pima. These three datasets are disparate from each other on various facets \(like number of attributes, type of attributes \226 numerical or binary, size of dataset, and type of dataset \226 dense or sparse\his makes any experimental analysis performed simultaneously on all the three datasets reliable and veracious, and such that its covers a wide range of aspects on which testing of classification accuracy and performance can be done The performance of FACISME has been compared with that of other state-of-the art classifiers, and the results of the same are detailed in section 6.A. Specifically, the classifiers used for comparisons are  200  Classification based on Predictive Association Rules CPAR 200  Classification based on Multiple Rules \(CMAR\8  200  Classification based on Associations \(CBA  200  C4.5 [22  200  Ri  200  Fuzzy Round-Robin Ripper \(FR3  200  Fuzzy Unordered Rule Induction Algorithm FURIA  200  Structural Learning Algorithm in a Vague Environment \(SLAVE    For the experiments on FACISME, we downloaded the raw datasets from the UCI ML website. These datasets then underwent the fuzzy pre-processing, mentioned in section 3 before being used to generate fuzzy frequent itemsets. To generate the fuzzy frequent itemsets that are used by FACISME, we have used the fuzzy ARM algorithm described in T h e m i n i m u m su pport u s ed f o r t h e f u zz y ARM process in order to build the fuzzy classifier, for all the three datasets, was 0.2 All the experiments were performed on an AMD 2600 Sempron PC with 512 MB main memory. All the approaches have been implemented by their authors with the parameters that they have used for testing. For CPAR, the best five rules are used for prediction. In all the experiments of FACISME and other associative classification algorithms\uracy is measured using the 10-fold cross validation. We implemented FACISME using Java on Windows XP. The results of the remaining algorithms i  e  excepting FACISME\aken from  2 4 25   A. Experimental Results As mentioned above, three standard UCL-ML datasets have been used to illustrate the efficacy of FACISME in terms of accuracy and simplicity of use. Figures 4, 5, and 6 illustrate the experimental results to test accuracy obtained for various classifiers on each of the three UCI-ML datasets Fig. 4 shows the accuracy obtained by each classifier on the iris dataset. FACISME performs the best in terms of accuracy as compared to the other datasets. From fig. 5 we get to know the accuracies for all the classifiers on the breast breast cancer\et. And, FACISME performs nearly as well as the most accurate classifier for this dataset. Finally fig. 6 depicts the results of the experimental analysis done on pima dataset. Even in this case, FACISME performs the best as compared to the other classifiers. Thus, the basic inference from this experimental analysis is that FACISME consistently performs very well on the basis of accuracy, and is even the best in two cases Each of the classifiers \(excepting FACISME\used in this experimental analysis are crisp in nature, and thus use sharp partitioning to convert numerical attributes to binary attributes. Normally 5-6 sharp partitions are used, but these can extend up to 10 or more depending on the nature of the 


numerical attribute e  g the attribute Age which is generally in the range 0-100, can be divided into six sharp partitions namely 0-15, 16-30, 31-45, 46-60, 61-75, 76 and above. In case of FACISME, fuzzy sets are used instead of sharp partitions, in order to convert numerical attributes to fuzzy partitions. The attribute Age can be divided into three fuzzy partitions, namely Young, Medium-aged, and Old, with each value of age belonging to each of the three fuzzy partitions with some membership value 265 Thus, the number of sharp partitions that need to be used to handle a numerical attribute is far greater than the number of fuzzy partitions required to do the same. Moreover, this leads to better understanding by the user as there are few well-defined fuzzy partitions with linguistic names/meanings like Young and Old, as opposed to sharp partitions which are less intuitive and to which a user cannot relate to immediately For the current analysis we have used two fuzzy partitions for all numerical attributes throughout all the datasets. As described in section 5.C, the time complexity of FACISME is quite high, because of which the time required to train a fuzzy classifier using FACISME is also high. Hence, we have used two fuzzy partitions so as to limit the training time. But, even with just two fuzzy partitions we have achieved quite high accuracies, as described above. More importantly, even with this, we achieved similar \(sometimes better results\s other state-of-the art classifiers used in this experimental analysis. The reason for these high accuracies is that FACISME is based on the theoretically sound and well-established maximum entropy framework  VII. CONCLUSIONS In this paper we have proposed a new classifier based on the paradigms of association rules mining and fuzzy logic  Though recent classifiers i nvolving association rules have shown their techniques to be accurate, their approaches to build a classifier either manifest unobserved statistical relationships in the dataset, or have no statistical basis at all FACISME uses the well-known maximum entropy principle and iterative scaling to build a statistical and robust theoretical model for classification Fuzzy Logic gives FACISME the capability to deal accurately and efficiently  with any type of datasets and domains, and in any kind of environments, which is not necessarily true for traditional crisp classifiers. Thus, using maximum entropy and fuzzy logic, FACISME provides very  good  accuracy and can work with all types of data irrespective of size and type of attributes \226 numerical or binary  REFERENCES 1  Agrawal, R. and Srikant, R.: Fast algorithms for mining association rules. In Proceedings of the 20 th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, pp. 487-499. Morgan Kaufmann, Santiago, Chile 1994 2  Clark, P. and Niblett, T.: Bayesian network classifiers. Machine Learning, 29, 131-163 \(1997 3  Meretakis, D. and Wuthrich, B.: Extending naive-bayes classifiers using long itemsets. In Proceedings of International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 165-174. ACM, New York, NY \(1999 4  Zadeh, L.A.: Fuzzy sets. Inf. Control, 8, 338\226358 \(1965 5  Chen G., Yan P., Kerre E.E.: Computationally Efficient Mining for Fuzzy Implication-Based Association Rules in Quantitative Databases. International Journal of General Systems, 33, 163-182 2004 6  H\374llermeier, E.: Fuzzy methods in machine learning and data mining Status and prospects. Fuzzy Sets and Systems. 156, 387-406 \(2005 7  Mangalampalli, A., Pudi, V.: Fuzzy Logic-based Pre-processing for Fuzzy Association Rule Mining. Technical Report IIIT/TR/2008/127 International Institute of Information Technology \(2008 8  Mangalampalli, A., Pudi, V.: Fuzzy Association Rule Mining Algorithm for Fast and Efficient Performance on Very Large Datasets In Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems pp. 1163-1168. IEEE Computational Intelligence Society, Piscataway NJ \(2009 9  Good, I.: Maximum entropy for hypothesis formulation, especially for multidimensional contingency tables. Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 34, 911-934 \(1963   Verlinde, H., De Cock, M., Boute, R.: Fuzzy Versus Quantitative Association Rules: A Fair Data-Driven Comparison. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics - Part B: Cybernetics 36, 679-683 \(2006   Dunn, J.C.: A Fuzzy Relative of the ISODATA Process and its Use in Detecting Compact, Well Separated Clusters. J. Cyber., 3, 32-57 1974   De Cock, M., Cornelis, C., and Kerre, E.E.: Elicitation of fuzzy association rules from positive and negative examples. Fuzzy Sets and Systems, 149, 73\22685 \(2005   Dubois, D., H\374llermeier, E., Prade, H.: A systematic approach to the assessment of fuzzy association rules. Data Min. Knowl. Discov., 13 167-192 \(2006   Darroch, J.N. and Ratcliff, D.: Generalized iterative scaling for loglinear models. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 43, 1470\2261480 1972   Zaki, M.J.: Generating non-redundant association rules. In Proceedings of the 6 th International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 34-43. ACM, New York, NY \(2000   Thonangi, R. and Pudi, V.: ACME: An Associative Classifier Based on Maximum Entropy Principle. In Proceedings of the 16 th  International Conference Algorithmic Learning Theory, pp. 122-134 Springer, Singapore \(2005   Liu, B., Hsu, W., and Ma, Y:. Integrating classification and association rule mining. In Proceedings of the 4 th International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 80-86 AAAI Press, New York, NY \(1998   Li, W., Han, J., and Pei, J.: CMAR: Accurate and efficient classification based on multiple class-association rules. In Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, pp. 369-376. IEEE Computer Society, San Jose, CA \(2001   Yin, X. and Han, J.: CPAR: Classification based on Predictive Association Rules.  In Proceedings of the 3 rd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, pp. 331-335. SIAM, San Francisco, CA 2003   Beeferman, D., Berger, A., and Lafferty, J.: Statistical models for text segmentation. Machine Learning. 34, \(1-3\, 177-210 \(1999   Thabtah, F.A.: A review of associative classification mining Knowledge Engineering Review, 22, 37-65 \(2007   Quinlan, J.R.: C4.5: Programs for Machine Learning. Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco \(1993   Cohen, W.: Fast Effective rule induction. In Proceedings of the 12 th  International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 115-123. Morgan Kaufmann, Tahoe City, CA \(1995   H\374hn, J. C., and H\374llermeier, E.: FR3: A Fuzzy Rule Learner for Inducing Reliable Classifiers. IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems 17, 138-149 \(2009   H\374hn, J. C., and H\374llermeier, E  FURIA: an algorithm for unordered fuzzy rule induction. Data Mining Knowledge Discovery, 19, 293-319 2009   Gonzalez, A. and Perez, R.: Slave: A genetic learning system based on an iterative approach. IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, 7, 176191 \(1999   Gonzalez, A. and Perez, R.: Selection of relevant features in a fuzzy genetic learning algorithm. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics - Part B: Cybernetics, 31, 417\226425 \(2001  


  Fig. 4. Experimental results on iris dataset     Fig. 5. Experimental results on breast \(breast cancer\ataset     Fig. 6. Experimental results on pima dataset  93 93.5 94 94.5 95 95.5 FACISME CPAR CMAR CBA C4.5 Ripper FURIA FR3 SLAVE 94 94.5 95 95.5 96 96.5 FACISME CPAR CMAR CBA C4.5 Ripper 71 72 73 74 75 76 FACISME CPAR CMAR CBA C4.5 Ripper FURIA SLAVE 


Application of Chaotic Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm in Chinese Documents Classification 763 Dekun Tan Qualitative Simulation Based on Ranked Hyperreals 767 Shusaku Tsumoto Association Action Rules and Action Paths Triggered by Meta-actions 772 Angelina A. Tzacheva and Zbigniew W. Ras Research and Prediction on Nonlinear Network Flow of Mobile Short Message Based on Neural Network 777 Nianhong Wan, Jiyi Wang, and Xuerong Wang Pattern Matching with Flexible Wildcards and Recurring Characters 782 Haiping Wang, Fei Xie, Xuegang Hu, Peipei Li, and Xindong Wu Supplier Selection Based on Rough Sets and Analytic Hierarchy Process 787 Lei Wang, Jun Ye, and Tianrui Li The Covering Upper Approximation by Subcovering 791 Shiping Wang, William Zhu, and Peiyong Zhu Stochastic Synchronization of Non-identical Genetic Networks with Time Delay 794 Zhengxia Wang and Guodong Liu An Extensible Workflow Modeling Model Based on Ontology 798 Zhenwu Wang Interval Type-2 Fuzzy PI Controllers: Why They are More Robust 802 Dongrui Wu and Woei Wan Tan Improved K-Modes Clustering Method Based on Chi-square Statistics 808 Runxiu Wu Decision Rule Acquisition Algorithm Based on Association-Characteristic Information Granular Computing 812 JianFeng Xu, Lan Liu, GuangZuo Zheng, and Yao Zhang Constructing a Fast Algorithm for Multi-label Classification with Support Vector Data Description 817 Jianhua Xu Knowledge Operations in Neighborhood System 822 Xibei Yang and Tsau Young Lin An Evaluation Method Based on Combinatorial Judgement Matrix 826 Jun Ye and Lei Wang Generating Algorithm of Approximate Decision Rules and its Applications 830 Wang Yun and Wu-Zhi Qiang Parameter Selection of Support Vector Regression Based on Particle Swarm Optimization 834 Hu Zhang, Min Wang, and Xin-han Huang T-type Pseudo-BCI Algebras and T-type Pseudo-BCI Filters 839 Xiaohong Zhang, Yinfeng Lu, and Xiaoyan Mao A Vehicle License Plate Recognition Method Based on Neural Network 845 Xing-Wang Zhang, Xian-gui Liu, and Jia Zhao Author Index 849 
xiii 


   C4.2 Open GL has excellent documentation that could help the developer learn the platform with ease C4.3 Developer has very little ex perience in working with Open GL platform  For our case study, alternative B i.e. Adobe Director was the most favorable alternative amongst all the three. It catered to the reusability criteria quite well and aimed at meeting most of the desired operational requirements for the system   6. CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK  The main contribution of this paper is to develop an approach for evaluating performance scores in MultiCriteria decision making using an intelligent computational argumentation network. The evaluation process requires us to identify performance scores in multi criteria decision making which are not obtained objectively and quantify the same by providing a strong rationale. In this way, deeper analysis can be achieved in reducing the uncertainty problem involved in Multi Criteria decision paradigm. As a part of our future work we plan on conducting a large scale empirical analysis of the argumentation system to validate its effectiveness   REFERENCES  1  L  P Am g o u d  U sin g  A r g u men ts f o r mak i n g an d  ex p lain in g  decisions Artificial Intelligence 173 413-436, \(2009 2 A  Boch m a n   C ollectiv e A r g u men tatio n    Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning 2002 3 G  R Bu y u k o zk an  Ev alu a tio n o f sof tware d e v e lo p m en t  projects using a fuzzy multi-criteria decision approach Mathematics and Computers in Simualtion 77 464-475, \(2008 4 M T  Chen   F u zzy MCD M A p p r o ach t o Selec t Serv ice  Provider The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy 2003 5 J. Con k li n  an d  M. Beg e m a n   gIBIS: A Hypertext Tool for Exploratory Policy Discussion Transactions on Office Information Systems 6\(4\: 303  331, \(1988 6 B P  Duarte D e v elo p in g a p r o jec ts ev alu a tio n sy ste m based on multiple attribute value theroy Computer Operations Research 33 1488-1504, \(2006 7 E G  Fo rm an  T h e  A n a l y t ic Hier a rch y P r o cess A n  Exposition OR CHRONICLE 1999 8 M. L ease  an d J L  L i v e l y  Using an Issue Based Hypertext System to Capture Software LifeCycle Process Hypermedia  2\(1\, pp. 34  45, \(1990 9  P e id e L i u   E valu a tio n Mo d e l o f Custo m e r Satis f a c tio n o f  B2CE Commerce Based on Combin ation of Linguistic Variables and Fuzzy Triangular Numbers Eight ACIS International Conference on Software Engin eering, Artificial Intelligence Networking and Parallel Distributed Computing, \(pp 450-454 2007  10  X  F L i u   M an ag e m en t o f an In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  Network for a Web-Based Collaborative Engineering Design Environment Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems,\(CTS 2007\, Orlando, Florida May 21-25, 2007 11 X. F L i u   A n In ternet Ba se d In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  System for Collaborative Engineering Design Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems pp. 318-325\. Las Vegas, Nevada 2006 12 T  M A sub jec tiv e assess m e n t o f altern ativ e m ission  architectures for the human exploration of Mars at NASA using multicriteria decision making Computer and Operations Research 1147-1164, \(June 2004 13 A  N Mo n ireh  F u zzy De cisio n Ma k i n g b a se d o n  Relationship Analysis between Criteria Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society 2005 14 N  P a p a d ias HERMES Su p p o rti n g A r g u m e n tative  Discourse in Multi Agent Decision Making Proceedings of the 15th National Conference on Artifical Intelligence \(AAAI-98  pp. 827-832\dison, WI: AAAI/MIT Press,  \(1998a 15  E. B T riantaph y llo u   T h e Im p act o f  Ag g r e g atin g Ben e f i t  and Cost Criteria in Four MCDA Methods IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol 52, No 2 May 2005 16 S  H T s a u r T h e Ev alu a tio n o f airlin e se rv ice q u a lity b y  fuzzy MCDM Tourism Management 107-115, \(2002 1 T  D W a n g  Develo p in g a f u zz y  T O P S IS app r o ach  b a sed  on subjective weights and objective weights Expert Systems with Applications 8980-8985, \(2009 18 L  A  Zadeh  F u z z y Sets   Information and Control 8  338-353, \(1965  152 


                        





