A SLA-Based Method for Big-Data Transfers with Multi-Criteria Optimization Constraints for IaaS  Mihaela-Catalina Nita, Cristian Chilipirea Faculty of Automatic Control and Computers University Politehnica of Bucharest Bucharest, Romania mihaela.nita, cristian.chilipirea}@cti.pub.ro Ciprian Dobre, Florin Pop Faculty of Automatic Control and Computers University Politehnica of Bucharest Bucharest, Romania ciprian.dobre, florin.pop}@cs.pub.ro   Abstract 227When one pays for a Cloud Service he wants the Service to be compliant with standards and to respect his needs respect the Service Level Agreement\ When manipulating bigdata \(like picture collections, satellite images or digital libraries transfers must be optimized. The Cloud Infrastructure itself utilizes big-data transfers while migrating Virtual Machines inside an Infrastructure as a Service system. In this paper we discuss data transfers in the cloud, which affects performance in the case of Virtual Machine migration and of user submitted bigdata transfers, by moving resources where they are needed. We suggest a scheduling policy and offer two greedy scheduling algorithms that minimize individual transfer times. This is mostly important for being able to have a High Performance Computing environment inside the cloud, for scenarios in which individual data transfer times need to be but when the data is transferred is not an issue. We present an empirical validation based on simulation experiments Keywords\227Data Transfer, SLA, Optimization, IaaS, Cloud Computing, Scheduling I   I NTRODUCTION  Cloud Computing has brought a new paradigm in Computer Science: one in which, for the first time, processing power is infinite. Users can use the elasticity of the cloud to compute difficult problems without the need for extensive hardware setup. But this elasticity comes with a cost: Virtual Machines need to be created, migrated or replicated; Back-ups need to be created on the fly. All of these operations take certain amounts of time, depending on the infrastructure the cloud provider has to offer, and the Service Level Agreement constraints, which cannot be ignored In this paper we discuss big-data transfers in the cloud They affect performance in the case of user submitted data transfers, by moving resources to the virtual machine on which they are needed and in the migration of Virtual Machine migration An efficient data transfer mechanism will provide a High Performance Computing environment inside the cloud and it will provide more transparency to the user in the migration process of a Virtual Machine from one part of the cloud to the other. How Virtual Machine migration, copy and saving its current state affects performance is studied in a s been shown that these operations have a big effect on the performance and on the amount of time in which a virtual machine stays inactive  With the growth in storage capacity and processing power we can predict that Moore Law will continue to be obeyed and that Virtual Machine size inside the cloud will grow. This makes Virtual Machine migration even more difficult, by requiring bigger amounts of bandwidth and by raising the amount of downtime while a migration is in progress. This problem is even more important in the case of hybrid Clouds where the interconnection between individual clouds tends to have smaller amounts of bandwidth and a more unreliable connection Virtual Machine migration, Virtual Machine deployment and Big-data transfers in which the data needs to be transferred as fast as possible, but when the data is transferred is not relevant, raise the need for a policy where individual transfer time needs to be minimized, even at the cost of total transfer time For this we offer a greedy scheduling algorithm that will minimize the transfer duration for individual transfers, inside a hybrid cloud topology. To improve on this initial algorithm we add a priority, given throw the SLA, to each transfer that needs to be executed and modify the algorithm to account for this priority We test the algorithms inside a simulation environment with a simulator we implemented for this particular problem We describe the simulator in the following sections II  V IRTUAL M ACHINE M IGRATION INSIDE A H YBRID C LOUD  In the context of big-data transfers, a few big questions need to be answered in order to have an efficient cloud environment: when and where to migrate. In this context, an efficient data migration method, focusing on the minimum global time, is presented in T h e m e t h od h o w e v e r does  n o t  try to minimize individual migrations duration. In [3 is proposed a system that detects the need of VM migration, in the context of a SLA violation. The system is called Sandpiper and it also estimates the amount of additional resources needed. In t w o m i g rat i ons  m odel s are des c ri bed of f l i n e and online. The offline scheduling model has as main target the minimization of the maximum bandwidth usage on all links for all time slots of a planning period. In the online scheduling model, the scheduler has to make fast decisions and the migrations are revealed to the migration scheduler in an a priori unde 336 ned sequence Jung et al treats in [5 e d a ta 


mining parallelization by considering the data transfer delay between two computing nodes. This delay is estimated by using the auto-regressive moving average filter. In [6 e  impacts of two resource reservation methods are tested reservation in source machine and reservation in target machine. Experimental results proved that the resource reservation in target machines is needed, in order to avoid the migration failure, and the performance overheads of live migration are affected by memory size, CPU, and workload types None of these papers tries to minimize the duration of individual virtual machine migration. The time it takes to suspend the virtual machine, to transfer its data, which can have tens of GBs, and to start the virtual machine may bring a significant downtime to the clients system. If the virtual machine size grows this problem becomes even more pressing We estimate that scheduling data transfers, so that they do not overlap, will reduce individual transfers duration and thus will shorten downtimes experienced by the end user. In the following sections we will prove these concepts   III  E XPERIMENTAL S CENARIOS  A Cloud offers to the end user the needed processing power, using its dynamically allocation mechanisms of resources to match the user\222s needs. The distribution of CPU memory, bandwidth and storage is made in a transparent way for each user but cannot exceed the physical capabilities of the network. It also cannot offer smaller latency The power of balancing the resources over the cloud is a key feature when a High Performance Computing is implemented over a Cloud domain. Cloud providers can offer a fully redundant infrastructure for HPC application and simulate a full mesh distributed network. This is achieved by using a layered topology described in [4 an d  7 w h ere t h e ph y s i cal  hosts are connected to the first level, called \223Edge Switch Level\224, typically through a 1Gb/s connection. The edge switches are connected to the core switches through a 10Gb/s and the core switches to the routers with the same 10Gb/s connection. As a result of the high number of ports a switch can support this topology can create a full mesh connection with a large number of physical units. Multiple routers are used to connect to different areas of the Internet or to interconnect with other Clouds. This topology can be visualized in Fig. 1   Fig. 1 Cloud Network Topology  Taking into consideration the described topology, our simulation is based on multiple Cloud domains with physical machines connected in a full mesh network. Looking at the whole map of domains, they are also connected directly or over the Internet in a full mesh topology. In our simulation we presume each cloud has three physical processing units and one routing unit, that is unable to create messages but can forward them. In the presented topology, four Clouds with the described infrastructure are interconnected. We presume an ideal environment and we do not take into consideration real life events, like temporary disconnects or bandwidth variation over time. Bandwidth and latency are constant over time and all connections have the same bandwidth. The network topology can be observed in Fig. 2. The physical machines have a number of messages with random destinations inside the hybrid cloud network. Messages are broken into several packets and the packets are scheduled for delivery. Over one connection two packets can be sent in every time unit, one in each direction The interactions \(over Internet\between customers and providers increase in an exponential way, so the key to a profitable PaaS is user density per resources \(physical or virtual machine\. The scenario proposed in Fig. 1 highlights the model of Cloud System Networks. Scientific applications \(addressing data intensive services or computationally intensive processing\llow the distributed computing paradigm \(Cloud Computing\ addressing different fields: medicine, physics astronomy, chemistry, and even economy 


  Fig. 2 The network topology   Fig. 3 General Schema   IV  S IMULATOR DESIGN  The general flow is: the customer makes a request for a certain service respecting a specific SLA; the broker receives the SLA and may decide to divide it in many sub SLAs. For example, the client will require three nodes, each with a specific CPU and Memory requirements. In this case, the broker will realize three others SLAs, for each node in part and will try to schedule it on different hosts. The broker may schedule it in the private cloud or in the public one. The private and public clouds are connected with each other Depending on where the task is scheduled Virtual Machines might need to be migrated and a substantial amount of time is spent in the migration process The user could also interact with the broker through an API and let it know Big-data transfers need to be done. The broker would then take the SLA into account and schedule the transfer as needed. This requires a minimum guaranteed bandwidth on all the connections so that the scheduling can be done correctly. We analyze the effects of big data transfers and virtual machine migration. The need to migrate and analyzing when a migration should be executed or a transfer is studied in [3 To test our scheduling algorithm for big data transfers like virtual machine migration we have created our own simulator that has support for multiple clouds. Its schema is described in Fig. 4. The simulator goes through a few stages, it loads the node topology and then it generates messages. Each message 


represents a Big-data transfer such as a Virtual Machine migration, it has a source and a destination, and other data may be added. The message is then taken by the simulator and split into packets and then ordered in an outgoing queue. The rest of the simulator deals with the actual transfers. The simulator takes into account bandwidth and any other needed statistics and generates logs at the end of each simulation  Fig. 4 Simulator design It is important to mention that the modules in the figure are interchangeable, ergo if one wants to write a different scheduler, that individual module can be changed  V  G REEDY S CHEDULING W ITH AND W ITHOUT P RIORITY   We have implemented three scheduling algorithms inside our simulator. The first one is the simplest one: it does not perform any scheduling at all, it simply sends the packets in a first come first serve order. This is how standard networking devices work and how all transfers are treated in a real life environment. This algorithm sends the packet as it receives, so it should have a smaller arrival time for all packets than any other algorithm. Because of the way the packets can get mixed individual message arrival time can be high Our first proposal is the greedy scheduling algorithm. This algorithm get the transfer requests in a first come first serve order and sets a time interval in which they can be sent. This interval is reserved on all the connections the packet has to go through \(in our case there is a maximum of three hops to destination, because of the full mesh infrastructure\ This is done until there are no more messages to schedule, taking into account the previously reserved time frames for each individual connection. It is important that we treat connections individually because some may prove to be a bottleneck. For instance the connections between individual clouds need to send more messages than connections inside the cloud. This way, even if the connection from a physical machine to a router is unused, the connection between the routers can be oversaturated. There is no point in scheduling the migration until the transfers that are currently running between the routers ends, even if the connection to the router is unused   Fig. 5. Individual Transit Time comparison between Greedy and FCFS We extended this algorithm by adding a priority marker to the messages, a priority that is set through the Service Level Agreement. It has values from 0 to 10, with higher values for better priorities.  This priority is similar to the one some Cloud providers offer for CPU. The virtual machines have a higher priority when using the CPU and get to use it for longer periods of time. The messages are sorted according to the priority and afterwards scheduled. The bigger the priority, the earlier the packets will be scheduled VI  S IMULATION R ESULTS   We have simulated the algorithms that were described in the previous section. The first come first serve \(FCFS algorithm was used, as a comparison for the proposed greedy scheduling algorithm. This can be seen in Fig. 5, where we compared the transit time for individual packets in the two versions. We tested with a message size of 30 packets and 1 packet per each connection. It is clearly visible how the greedy scheduling transit time per message is about 30 time parts \(it differs if the message is sent in the same cloud or in a different 


cloud\he default method has bigger transit times for most of the messages. This proves that the scheduling mechanism works and provides the expected results In the next figure \(Fig. 6\, we compared the messages arrival time between the greedy scheduler and FCFS. The results are comparable. In some cases Greedy is slower, but the goal of this algorithm is to obtain smaller transit times and not arrival times. Other papers, like [2  4  o r  6 tr ea t th e p r o b l e m  of arrival time. Although we do not try in any way to minimize arrival times, the graph in figure 6 shows how the results are comparable and the proposed algorithm doesn\222t add significant latencies We also propose the greedy scheduling with priority, which acts the same way as the classical greedy but takes into account the message priority, priority given by the SLA. This priority is negotiated between the user and the cloud, the higher the priority is the higher the price paid for the service will be Fig. 7 compares the arrival times of a messages sequence for Classical Greedy and Greedy with priority. By analyzing the trend lines, it can be observed that the Greedy Scheduling with Priority manages to deliver the messages with higher priority faster than the others In this context, Cloud computing has the potential to be the major solution for scalability, mobility, reliability, fault tolerance and security for business and academic environments in the same time As computing needs increase, multiple administrative domains will manage the resources in order to ensure the QoS and guarantee the SLA. Considering this, finding a way to a smart Cloud infrastructure will consider dependable management services to control the infrastructure and provide essential system-level functionality It is important to outline that the two algorithms only try to minimize the transit time. Both accomplished this goal and are best fitted for environments in which transition times need to be minimized and arrival times for most messages can be sacrificed Ergo the algorithms are best suited for virtual machine migrations and users big-data transfers that can be delayed but need to be executed in the shortest time possible. This happens when the user handles data that can be modified until the transfer starts   Fig. 6 Individual Arrival Time comparison between Greedy and FCFS   Fig. 7 Comparison between greedy with and without Priority 


VII  C ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK  This paper highlights the problem of data transfers in the cloud, transfers that affect cloud performance by moving resources to the virtual machine on which they are needed. We described a method for big-data transfer optimization based on network characteristics and we considered the constraints introduced by SLA. We proposed two greedy scheduling algorithms and we compared them to a standard First Come First Served, packet transfer order.  Several simulation experiments highlight the obtained improvement Having a scheduler for transfers that takes into account global transfers can bring an improvement to applications and to the user experience. We believe that better algorithms may be obtained that further improves on the scheduling so that cloud resource usage is minimized. We also considered using the discussed algorithms for Cloud user data transfers, for this to be practical an API needs to be provided to the Cloud user throw which to schedule only the big-data transfers. The API should offer some sort of feedback, which can be utilized by the user to further optimize it\222s processing A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was partially supported by project \223ERRIC Empowering Romanian Research on Intelligent Information Technologies/FP7-REGPOT-2010-1\224, ID: 264207. The work has been co-funded by the Sectorial Operational Program Human Resources Development 2007-2013 of the Romanian Ministry of Labor, Family and Social Protection through the Financial Agreement POSDRU/89/1.5/S/62557 R EFERENCES   M i n g Z h a o and  R e n a t o J  F i gu ei r e d o 20 07 E xp e ri m e nt a l s t ud y of vi rt u a l machine migration in support of reservation of cluster resources. In Proceedings of the 2nd international workshop on Virtualization technology in distributed computing VTDC '07\. ACM, New York, NY, USA, Article 5 8 pages 2 Jo se p h Hal l  Jaso n Har t l i n e A n n a R  K a rl i n J a re d Sai a  an d Jo h n W i l k e s   2001. On algorithms for efficient data migration. In Proceedings of the twelfth annual ACM-SIAM symposium on Discrete algorithms SODA '01\. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, Philadelphia, PA, USA, 620-629 3 i m o t h y  W o o d P r as ha nt S h e n oy  A r un V e nkat a r a m a n i a nd Ma z i n  Yousif. 2007. Black-box and gray-box strategies for virtual machine migration. In Proceedings of the 4th USENIX conference on Networked systems design and implementation NSDI'07\. USENIX Association Berkeley, CA, USA, 17-17 4 A l e x ande r S t ag e an d T h o m as S e tz er 20 0 9 N e tw o r kaw ar e m i g r a t io n  control and scheduling of differentiated virtual machine workloads. In Proceedings of the 2009 ICSE Workshop on Software Engineering Challenges of Cloud Computing CLOUD '09\. IEEE Computer Society, Washington DC, USA, 9-14 5 G u e y ou n g J u n g N a th an G n an a s am b a nd a m an d Tr i d ib  Mu kh er j ee 2 0 1 2  Synchronous Parallel Processing of Big-Data Analytics Services to Optimize Performance in Federated Clouds. In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE Fifth International Conference on Cloud Computing CLOUD '12\. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA, 811-818 6 K e jiang Y e X iao ho ng J i ang  D a w e i H u a n g  J i an ha i Che n a n d Be i W a ng   2011. Live Migration of Multiple Virtual Machines with Resource Reservation in Cloud Computing Environments. In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE 4th International Conference on Cloud Computing CLOUD '11\. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA, 267-274 7 l be r t  G r e e nbe r g P a r a nta p L a hir i D a v i d A  Mal t z  P a r v e e n P a te l  S udi pt a Sengupta Microsoft Research, Redmond, WA, USA Towards a Next Generation Data Center Architecture: Scalability and Commoditization  


Analysis of Incrementally Generated Clusters in Biological Networks Using Graph-Theoretic Filters and Ontology Enrichment 584 Sean West, Kathryn Dempsey, Sanjukta Bhowmick, and Hesham Ali Fourth ICDM International Workshop on Knowledge Discovery Using Cloud and Distributed Computing Platforms \(KD-Cloud Accelerating Frequent Itemsets Mining on the Cloud: A MapReduce -Based Approach 592 Zahra Farzanyar and Nick Cercone Decentralized K-Means Using Randomized Gossip Protocols for Clustering Large Datasets 599 Jérôme Fellus, David Picard, and Philippe-Henri Gosselin Cloud Based Predictive Analytics: Text Classification, Recommender Systems and Decision Support 607 Klavdiya Hammond and Aparna S. Varde Decision Support in Data Centers for Sustainability 613 Michael Pawlish, Aparna S. Varde, and Stefan Robila Mining and Understanding from Big Data \(BigMUD In-Core Computation of Geometric Centralities with HyperBall: A Hundred Billion Nodes and Beyond 621 Paolo Boldi and Sebastiano Vigna Scalable Audience Reach Estimation in Real-Time Online Advertising 629 Ali Jalali, Santanu Kolay, Peter Foldes, and Ali Dasdan A Study on Privacy Preservation for Multi-user and Multi-granularity 638 Dong Li, Xiangmang He, Huahui Chen, Yihong Dong, and Yefang Chen Towards Optimal Symbolization for Time Series Comparisons 646 Gavin Smith, James Goulding, and Duncan Barrack GPU-Accelerated Query by Humming Using Modified SPRING Algorithm 654 Guangchao Yao, Yao Zheng, Limin Xiao, Li Ruan, Yongnan Li, and Zhenzhong Zhang Designing the Market of Data - for Synthesizing Data in Sciences and Businesses \(MoDAT Curating and Mining \(Big 664 Akinori Abe Quantifying and Recommending Expertise When New Skills Emerge 672 Dongping Fang, Kush R. Varshney, Jun Wang, Karthikeyan Natesan Ramamurthy Aleksandra Mojsilovi and John H. Bauer Spatiotemporal Life-Log Mining of Wheelchair Users’ Driving for Visualizing Accessibility of Roads 680 Yusuke Iwasawa and Ikuko Eguchi Yairi A Method for Generating Ontologies in Requirements Domain for Searching Data Sets in Marketplace 688 Noriyuki Kushiro 
xi 
xi 


Valuation of Data through Use-Scenarios in Innovators' Marketplace on Data Jackets 694 Chang Liu, Yukio Ohsawa, and Yoshitaka Suda Data Marketplace for Efficient Data Placement 702 Hiroshi Maruyama, Daisuke Okanohara, and Shohei Hido Acquissition of Text-Mining Skills for Beginners Using TETDM 706 Rina Nakagochi, Kayo Kawamoto, and Wataru Sunayama Detecting Topics from Twitter Posts During TV Program Viewing 714 Takanobu Nakahara and Yukinobu Hamuro Frame as a Clue to Intention of Data: Toward New Product Ideas with Framed Components 720 Jun Nakamura and Masahiko Teramoto e-Trucks Realize Four Zeros Expectations, The Challenge by Market of Data 726 Masahiko Teramoto and Jun Nakamura Valuation of Partly Disclosed Datasets for Prediction 733 Hiroe Tsubaki IdeaGraph Plus: A Topic-Based Algorithm for Perceiving Unnoticed Events 735 Chen Zhang, Hao Wang, Fanjiang Xu, and Xiaohui Hu The Eighth Workshop on Optimization Based Techniques for Emerging Data Mining Problems \(OEDM Robust Cost-Sensitive Confidence-Weighted Classification 742 Alnur Ali and Kevyn Collins-Thompson Optimal Correlation Clustering via MaxSAT 750 Jeremias Berg and Matti Järvisalo Evaluation of Session-Based Recommendation Systems for Social Networks 758 Chen-Ling Chen and Chia-Hui Chang Evaluation of Social, Geography, Location Effects for Point-of-Interest Recommendation 766 Nai-Hung Cheng and Chia-Hui Chang Fast Spectral Clustering with Landmark-Based Subspace Iteration 773 Zejun Gan, Chaofeng Sha, and Junyu Niu Item-Based Top-k Influential User Discovery in Social Networks 780 Jing Guo, Peng Zhang, Chuan Zhou, Yanan Cao, and Li Guo Unsupervised Clustering Strategy Based on Label Propagation 788 Jiguang Liang, Xiaofei Zhou, Ying Sha, Ping Liu, Li Guo, and Shuo Bai How to Improve the Quality of Pedestrian Detection Using the Priori Knowledge 795 Zhiquan Qi, Yingjie Tian, Xiaodan Yu, and Yong Shi Infinite Mixed Membership Matrix Factorization 800 Avneesh Saluja, Mahdi Pakdaman, Dongzhen Piao, and Ankur P. Parikh Resampling and Cost-Sensitive Methods for Imbalanced Multi-instance Learning 808 Xiaoguang Wang, Xuan Liu, Nathalie Japkowicz, and Stan Matwin Cost-Free Learning for Support Vector Machines with a Reject Option 817 Guibiao Xu and Bao-Gang Hu 
xii 
xii 


Dissimilarity Features in Recommender Systems 825 Christos Zigkolis, Savvas Karagiannidis, and Athena Vakali Fourth IEEE Workshop on Privacy Aspects of Data Mining \(PADM 2013 Differentially Private Anomaly Detection with a Case Study on Epidemic Outbreak Detection 833 Liyue Fan and Li Xiong A Semi-Supervised Learning Approach to Differential Privacy 841 Geetha Jagannathan, Claire Monteleoni, and Krishnan Pillaipakkamnatt The Independence of Fairness-Aware Classifiers 849 Toshihiro Kamishima, Shotaro Akaho, Hideki Asoh, and Jun Sakuma Incentive-Compatible Privacy-Preserving Distributed Data Mining 859 Murat Kantarcioglu Privacy-Preserving Kernel k-Means Outsourcing with Randomized Kernels 860 Keng-Pei Lin Select-Organize-Anonymize: A Framework for Trajectory Data Anonymization 867 Giorgos Poulis, Spiros Skiadopoulos, Grigorios Loukides, and Aris Gkoulala-Divanis Data Anonymity Meets Non-discrimination 875 Salvatore Ruggieri Privacy Preserving Social Network Publication against Mutual Friend Attacks 883 Chongjing Sun, Philip S. Yu, Xiangnan Kong, and Yan Fu Adaptive Differentially Private Data Release for Data Sharing and Data Mining 891 Li Xiong Sentiment Elicitation from Natural Text for Information Retrieval and Extraction \(SENTIRE Enhancing Sentiment Classification Performance Using Bi-Tagged Phrases 892 Basant Agarwal, Namita Mittal, and Erik Cambria Dynamic Construction of Dictionaries for Sentiment Classification 896 Hanen Ameur and Salma Jamoussi Multi-Class Sentiment Analysis with Clustering and Score Representation 904 Mohsen Farhadloo and Erik Rolland Robust Language Learning Via Efficient Budgeted Online Algorithms 913 Simone Filice, Giuseppe Castellucci, Danilo Croce, and Roberto Basili Pattern-Based Topic Models for Information Filtering 921 Yang Gao, Yue Xu, and Yuefeng Li Interest Analysis Using Semantic PageRank and Social Interaction Content 929 Chung-Chi Huang and Lun-Wei Ku Joint and Pipeline Probabilistic Models for Fine-Grained Sentiment Analysis: Extracting Aspects, Subjective Phrases and their Relations 937 Roman Klinger and Philipp Cimiano 
xiii 
xiii 


Learning the Roles of Directional Expressions and Domain Concepts in Financial News Analysis 945 Pekka Malo, Ankur Sinha, Pyry Takala, Oskar Ahlgren, and Iivari Lappalainen A Framework of Review Analysis for Enhancement of Business Decision Making 955 Atika Qazi, Ram Gopal Raj, Muhammad Tahir, and Syed Ghaour Abbas Naqvi Sentiment Analysis in News Articles Using Sentic Computing 959 Prashant Raina Interpreting or Describing? Measuring Verb Abstraction 963 Dominika Rogozi ska and Aleksander Wawer Possible Usage of Sentiment Analysis for Calculating Vectors of Felific Calculus 967 Rafal Rzepka and Kenji Araki Subjective Bayes Method for Word Semantic Similarity Measurement 971 Junhua Wang, Xianglin Zuo, Wanli Zuo, and Tao Peng Eighth International Workshop on Spatial and Spatio-Temporal Data Mining SSTDM Qualitative Spatial Structure in Complex Areal Objects Using Location-Free, Mobile Geosensor Networks 978 Alan Both and Matt Duckham A Novel Approach to Trajectory Analysis Using String Matching and Clustering 986 Madhuri Debnath, Praveen Kumar Tripathi, and Ramez Elmasri Severe Hail Prediction within a Spatiotemporal Relational Data Mining Framework 994 David John Gagne II, Amy McGovern, Jerald Brotzge, and Ming Xue Blazing Fast Time Series Segmentation Based on Update Techniques for Polynomial Approximations 1002 André Gensler, Thiemo Gruber, and Bernhard Sick DLOREAN: Dynamic Location-Aware Reconstruction of Multiway Networks 1012 Fredrik Johansson, Vinay Jethava, and Devdatt Dubhashi Mining Semantic Time Period Similarity in Spatio-Temporal Climate Data 1020 Michael P. McGuire and Ziying Tang An Integer Programming Approach to Temporal Pattern Matching Queries 1028 Megan Monroe and Amol Deshpande Analyzing the Proximity and Interactions of Friends in Communities in Gowalla 1036 Tommy Nguyen, Mingming Chen, and Boleslaw K. Szymanski 4D+SNN: A Spatio-Temporal Density-Based Clustering Approach with 4D Similarity 1045 Ricardo Oliveira, Maribel Yasmina Santos, and João Moura Pires Multi-sensor Remote Sensing Image Change Detection: An Evaluation of Similarity Measures 1053 Karthik Ganesan Pillai and Ranga R. Vatsavai New Spatiotemporal Clustering Algorithms and their Applications to Ozone Pollution 1061 Sujing Wang, Tianxing Cai, and Christoph F. Eick 
xiv 
xiv 


The Passenger Demand Prediction Model on Bus Networks 1069 Chunjie Zhou, Pengfei Dai, and Renpu Li Demo Papers SaferCity: A System for Detecting and Analyzing Incidents from Social Media 1077 Michele Berlingerio, Francesco Calabrese, Giusy Di Lorenzo, Xiaowen Dong, Yiannis Gkoufas and Dimitrios Mavroeidis The MiningZinc Framework for Constraint-Based Itemset Mining 1081 Tias Guns, Anton Dries, Guido Tack, Siegfried Nijssen, and Luc De Raedt Demand Finder: Set Top Box Television Ad Targeting Using a Novel Interactive Data Visualization System 1085 Brendan Kitts, Dyng Au, Brian Burdick, Jon Borchardt, Amanda Powter, and Todd Otis An Evaluation Framework for Temporal Subspace Clustering Approaches 1089 Hardy Kremer, Stephan Günnemann, Arne Held, and Thomas Seidl Interactive Data Analysis Tool by Augmenting MATLAB with Semantic Objects 1093 Changhyun Lee, Jaegul Choo, Duen Horng \(Polo Demonstrating Interactive Multi-Resolution Large Graph Exploration 1097 Zhiyuan Lin, Nan Cao, Hanghang Tong, Fei Wang, U. Kang, and Duen Horng \(Polo NIM: Scalable Distributed Stream Process System on Mobile Network Data 1101 Lujia Pan, Jianfeng Qian, Caifeng He, Wei Fan, Cheng He, and Fan Yang PhD Forum A Multi Density-Based Clustering Algorithm for Data Stream with Noise 1105 Amineh Amini, Hadi Saboohi, and Teh Ying Wah MapReduce Based Frameworks for Classifying Evolving Data Stream 1113 Ahsanul Haque and Latifur Khan Time-Sensitive Route Planning Using Location-Based Data 1121 Hsun-Ping Hsieh, Cheng-Te Li, and Shou-De Lin Mining Discrete Patterns via Binary Matrix Factorization 1129 Peng Jiang and Michael T. Heath Mining Adverse Drug Reactions from Electronic Health Records 1137 Henry Z. Lo, Wei Ding, and Zohreh Nazeri Quantification of Financial News for Economic Surveys 1141 Mihail Minev Local Discriminative Distance Metrics and their Real World Applications 1145 Yang Mu and Wei Ding Host-Based Anomaly Detection Using Learning Techniques 1153 Ahmad Mustafa, Mohiuddin Solaimani, Latifur Khan, Ken Chiang, and Joe Ingram Rapidly Labeling and Tracking Dynamically Evolving Concepts in Data Streams 1161 Brandon S. Parker and Latifur Khan 
xv 
xv 


Author Index 1165 
xvi 
xvi 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Historical Data Processing To load correlated data  Uncompress, unmarshall  Create a list of files containing the correlated data  Write data to warehouse 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Live Data Processing Processed using IBM MQ IBM Message Broker and a technique called XML Shredding Message Broker Compute Nodes  Uncompress Node  Extract correlated messages  Shred Node adds to DB Stored Procedure “shreds XML docs and adds to tables 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Issues and Observations Initial load of one day of data ~ 7 hours Optimizations  Write data in batches  Use a mutable data structure to create data strings  Deploy a higher performance machine  Use load instead of insert  Use DB2 Range-Partitioned tables  Database tunings Time reduced from 7 hours to approx 30 minutes 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Use a mutable data structure to create data strings  Original application created the SQL statement by appending elements to a Java String  It was taking five hours \(of the seven hours Strings  Instead Java StringBuilder used  Java Strings immutable  Time savings of 71.4 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Deployed on a higher-performance machine  Application ported from IBM Blade Center HS21 \(4GB of RAM and 64-bit dual-core Xeon 5130 processor to Dell M4500 computer \(4GB of RAM and 64-bit of quad-core Intel Core i7 processor  Reduced the time to thirty minutes Bulk loading instead of insert  Application was modified to write CSV files for each table  Entire day worth of data bulk loaded  Reduced the time to fifteen minutes 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Range-Partitioned tables \(RPT  To limit the size of tables, the original code created multiple tables per table type  This puts burden on the application to query multiple tables when a range crosses several tables  With RPT, user is not required to make multiple queries when a range crosses a table boundary  Increased the time to thirty minutes  Additional fifteen minute cost per day of partitioning enabled time savings during queries 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Optimizations Database tunings  Range periods changed from a week to a month  Automatic table space resizing changed from 32MB to 512KB  Buffer pool size decreased  Decreased the time to twenty minutes Overall, total time savings of 95.2 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  20 IBM Confidential Analytics Landscape Degree of Complexity Competitive Advantage Standard Reporting Ad hoc reporting Query/drill down Alerts Simulation Forecasting Predictive modeling Optimization What exactly is the problem What will happen next if What if these trends continue What could happen What actions are needed How many, how often, where What happened Stochastic Optimization Based on: Competing on Analytics, Davenport and Harris, 2007 Descriptive Prescriptive Predictive How can we achieve the best outcome How can we achieve the best outcome including the effects of variability Used with permission of IBM 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Initial Analysis Activities Flights departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving within a date and time range Flights between city pair A,B Flights between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a volume on a date. \(sector, center, etc boundary Flights passing through a volume within a date and time range Flights passing through an airspace volume in n-minute intervals All x-type aircraft departing or arriving on a date Flights departing or arriving on a date between city pair A,B Flights departing or arriving on a date between a list of city pairs Flights passing through a named fix, airway, center, or sector Filed Flight plans for any of the above Actual departure, arrival times and actual track reports for any of the above 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial SPSS Applications Show all tracks by call sign 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case For a given Airspace Volume of Interest \(AVOI compute distinct traffic volume at some point in the future  Aim to alert on congestion due to flow control areas or weather if certain thresholds are exceeded  Prescribe solution \(if certain thresholds are exceeded Propose alternate flight paths  Use pre-built predictive model  SPSS Modeler performs data processing Counts relevant records in the database \(pattern discovery Computes traffic volume using statistical models on descriptive pattern Returns prediction with likelihood 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Predictive / Prescriptive Analytics Use-Case Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  24 Pulls in the TRACKINFO table of MAIN using SQL Limits the data to database entries which fall inside the AVOI Combines the SOURCE_DATE and SOURCE_TIME to a timestamp that can be understood by modeler Computes which time interval the database entry falls in. The time interval is 15 minutes Defines the target and input fields needed for creating the model Handles the creation of the model Produces a graph based off of the model results Final prediction 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Cognos BI Applications IBM Cognos Report Studio  Web application for creating reports  Can be tailored by date range, aircraft id, departure/arrival airport etc  Reports are available with links to visuals IBM Framework Manager  Used to create the data package  Meta-data modeling tool  Users can define data sources, and relationships among them Models can be exported to a package for use with Report Studio 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 1 of 3 Report shows the departure date, departure and arrival locations and hyperlinks to Google Map images DeparturePosition and ArrivalPosition are calculated data items formatted for use with Google Maps Map hyperlinks are also calculated based on the type of fix 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 2 of 3 DeparturePosition, Departure Map, ArrivalPosition and Arrival Map are calculated data items \(see departure items below DepartureLatitude DepartureLongitude DeparturePosition Departure Map 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Flights Departing Las Vegas on Jan 1, 2012 3 of 3 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Conclusion and Next Steps Current archive is 50 billion records and growing  Approximately 34 million elements per day  1GB/day Sheer volume of raw surveillance data makes analytics process very difficult The raw data runs through a series of processes before it can be used for analytics Next Steps  Continue application of predictive and prescriptive analytics  Big data visualization 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Questions and Comments Paul Comitz Boeing Research & Technology Chantilly, VA, 20151 office Paul.Comitz@boeing.com 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  31 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a “key, value” list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of “key, value” pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


