Integrating Sensor Webs with Modeling and Dataassimilation Applications An SOA Implementation Yudong Tian Paul R Houser Sujay V Kumar Code 614.3 Hongbo Su James V Geiger Jr Goddard Space Flight Center Center for Research 
on Environ  Goddard Space Flight Center NASA Water IGES NASA Greenbelt MD 20771 Calverton MD 20705 Greenbelt MD 20771 301-286-2275 Yudong.Tiangnasa.gov Abstract A sensor web framework is implemented to enable two-way interactions between sensors and traditional modeling/data-assimilation applications for the Land 
Information Sensor Web LISW A service-oriented architecture SOA is adopted and implemented with REpresentational State Transfer REST web services The web services are built upon a message-oriented middleware with a publish/subscribe model Prototype sensor observation service SOS and sensor planning service SPS are implemented as REST-style web services These services are provided by a sensor simulator Such an open interoperable and dynamic framework greatly simplifies the integration of sensing agents and modeling applications It also enables development of feature-rich 
web applications which can tap into LISW's web services for data visualization and decision making As an example we demonstrate an interactive web application with Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX technology its integration with Google Map and its two-way interaction with the sensor simulator which simulates 60 temperature sensors over the U.S.1 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 2 ARCHITECTURE 2 3 DATA FLOW 2 3 IMPLEMENTATION 3 4 SUMMARY 5 REFERENCES 6 BIOGRAPHY 6 
1 INTRODUCTION Sensor webs provide a new paradigm for the interaction between sensors and modeling/data-assimilation applications Traditionally most scientific models and dataassimilation applications passively digest data gathered by in situ or remote sensors at pre-defined temporal and spatial intervals A sensor web enables two-way communication between these sensors and modeling/data-assimilation applications and creates new opportunities to get significant scientific returns while lowering the total cost For example 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1143 Version 
3 Updated December 12 2007 a data-assimilation application can instruct the sensors in real-time to reconfigure their sampling frequencies and spatial resolutions in order to improve its accuracy in anticipation of significant events or to save operational cost when no events of interest are present The Land Information Sensor Web LISW is such a pilot effort to prototype a sensor web that integrates land surface hydrological modeling and prediction capabilities with remote-sensing agents and simulators LISW embraces a high-performance land surface modeling and data 
assimilation application the Land Information System LIS 1]-[2 to assimilate real-time sensor data from remote or simulated sensing agents and more importantly to provide guidance to sensors for adaptive sensing strategies based on its model prediction The optimal two-way interaction between sensors and modeling/data-assimilation applications is the key to realize the potential scientific benefits of sensor webs However it is a challenge to seamlessly integrate a variety of disparate and distributed applications including legacy or conventional scientific modeling and data-assimilation 
systems visualization and decision support tools as well as sensors and sensor simulators and meanwhile to ensure interoperability The Open Geospatial Consortium OGC is developing a Sensor Web Enablement SWE 3 framework to facilitate interoperability and standardize architecture sensor web services and data encoding Though many of OGC's specifications have not been finalized we strive to embrace the SWE framework for LISW In this work we demonstrate a working implementation of service oriented architecture SOA within the 
SWE framework to enable the integration of these heterogeneous components for LISW Our implementation of such an open interoperable and dynamic framework greatly simplifies the integration of sensing agents and modeling applications and enables development of feature-rich web applications which can tap into LISW's web services for data visualization decision making education and public outreach As an example we will demonstrate our development of an interactive web application with Asynchronous JavaScript and XML 1 


AJAX technology for visualization and decision support and its integration with third-party web services such as Google Map 2 ARCHITECTURE The Land Information Sensor Web LISW seeks to integrate two primary components 1 LIS 2 individual sensors or sensor networks However we desire an open and interoperable framework in order to allow other components such as visualization and decision-making tools or third-party web services to easily interact with LISW via the SWE web services Figure 1 shows a highlevel view of LISW architecture m W.eb GSFC Land hfrrmtibn Sytber LIS Figure 1 LISW architecture The Land Information System LIS The Land Information System LIS 1]-[2 is a software framework for traditional land surface modeling and dataassimilation applications developed at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center LIS adopts industry-standard software engineering design and integrates high performance computing technologies that enable high-resolution ensemble land surface modeling LIS open framework allows easy integration of modular plug-ins for land surface models meteorological inputs parameters and grids/domains New functionalities can be implemented without affecting the rest of the code LIS has also adopted other Earth system modeling standards and conventions such as the Earth System Modeling Framework ESMF 4 to foster interoperability portability and code reuse in climate numerical weather prediction data assimilation and other Earth science applications LIS flexible plug-and-play modular design provides an ideal foundation for us to implement the sensor web framework that allows two-way interaction between LIS and any sensor webs that conform to the same open standards as shown in Figure 1 Specifically we embrace OGC's Sensor Web Enablement SWE initiative and develop the sensor web interaction framework based on the proposed web services and data encoding standards Sensors and sensor networks In LISW the sensors and sensor networks are simulated by a sensor simulator The sensor simulator abstracts the inner workings of the sensors and sensor networks and only exposes data and services that are of interest under the sensor web settings At present we are only concerned with two functionalities the sensor simulator provides 1 producing and encoding simulated sensor data 2 receiving and decoding instructions to re-configure parameters of the sensing operations These two functionalities provide the underlying capabilities to support the Sensor Observation Services SOS and Sensor Planning Services SPS in the LISW framework SWE web services LIS two-way interaction with the sensor simulator is currently enabled by the incarnation of two essential SWE web services the Sensor Observation Service SOS and Sensor Planning Service SPS While other web services could also be implemented e.g Sensor Alert Service these two web services are sufficient to demonstrate the reconfiguration and optimization capabilities of a sensor web These services will enable data retrieving data assembling data collection request handling as well as the two-way communication between LIS and the sensor web These services would allow the sensor web to optimize a variety of objectives At the most basic level the sensor web should provide only the most important observations or information needed to minimize model error or to make the optimal decision thereby minimizing observation transmission and data processing costs 3 DATA FLOW We designed the data exchange between LIS and sensor webs under the framework of Observing System Simulation Experiment OSSE OSSE typically consists of at least four components 1 a simulated data set of land surface states 2 a forward emission model to link these states with expected sensor observations 3 a sensor model that degrades these observations e g in accuracy and spatial resolution in a realistic manner and 4 a data assimilation system that integrates the degraded observation into a prediction model Such synthetic experiments provide a controlled setting under which one can examine the end-toend performance of an observation-modeling-solution system and examine the impact of various design trade-offs e.g cost considerations resolution and accuracy 2 


requirements on the final value of sensor web observations for a particular prediction or decision support application The data flow within LISW is shown in Figure 2 We developed a synthetic experiment scenario in which LIS is trying to reproduce a land surface truth dataset by modeling and assimilating observations from the sensors The land surface truth data blue arrows are pre-generated with offline LIS runs with one land surface model CLM LIS uses another one of its land surface models NOAH to perform modeling and assimilating with online real-time interaction with the sensors red arrows The online runs with NOAH are an ensemble from perturbed input data and an uncertainty map can be produced from the ensemble runs The uncertainty map will be fed into the simulated sensors to generate land truth-based observations with noises which in turn will be delivered to LIS for data assimilation LIS can instruct the sensors to reconfigure their operations to reduce model errors The model output is also evaluated against the land truth data and decisions can be made for further reconfiguration of the sensors if necessary REST-style web services We implemented the SWE SOS and SPS web services as REST-style web services due to their simplicity Though OGC is inclined to SOAP-based web services this is not critical since REST-ful web services can be used to deliver SOAP messages and we expect REST-ful web services may gain more acceptance within OGC community as they do now in other sectors of web service providers such as Amazon 7 Figure 3 Integration and interoperation of potential LISW components with the service-oriented architecture REST-ful web services use a unique URL to represent an object and one uses HTTP GET POST PUT or DELETE commands to interact with the object The simplicity of REST web services lies in its lightweight without extra XML markup and they are easy to build without relying on development tools For example to evoke the SOS service a consumer uses the URL W Fowha Figure 2 LISW data flow with an HTTP POST request containing parameters with possible standard encoding such as SensorML 3 IMPLEMENTATION The service-oriented architecture is implemented with REpresentational state transfer REST 5]-[6 web services The two prototype SWE web services sensor observation service SOS and sensor planning service SPS provide the standard interface for sensors sensor simulators third-party web services decision-making tools as well as LIS to exchange data with loose coupling In a lower level the data are delivered as messages by a message-oriented middleware MOM with a publish/subscribe model Figure 3 describes the integration of disparate applications with our SOA implementation and Figure 4 shows the protocol stack involved in more details In our current implementation the sensor simulator is the provider of the Sensor Observation Service SOS and a consumer of the Sensor Planning Service SPS SPS can either be provided by LIS or by a decision-making tool both of which are in turn consumers of SOS The web services are hosted on a Java-based application server which provides HTTP-level connectivity to web service producers and consumers In addition it is responsible for delivering the messages it receives to an underlying middleware Figure 4 It also maintains HTTP session information to identify each of the service providers and consumers 3 


more information over to SOS We implemented the as a publisher to the message-oriented middleware and SPS as a subscriber The simulator publishes the consumers It allows loose interaction between the two parties and enhances performance reliability and resilience of the whole system Specifically a message producer such as a sensor simulator does not need to engage in a send-acknowledge-send cycle with a message consumer such as LIS and it will not be tied down by can greatly can take full advantage of the middleware's asynchronous messaging characteristics Sensor simulator The sensor simulator is both a service provider and can be packed in the messages delivered to the middleware The messages are basically four types of middleware 8 1 transaction processing monitors TPM 2 remote procedure call RPC 3 message-oriented middleware MOM and 4 object request brokers ORB Table 1 summarizes In addition to the existing SOS and SPS services new services serves as a perfect messaging substrate to construct consumer The middleware will handle the message delivery reliably This also paves the way for highly interactive web applications based consumer It provides the Sensor Observation Service SOS for LIS and other applications and it taps into the Service Planning Service SPS to get re-configuration instructions Inside it generates simulated we can update the application level data format without affecting the service-oriented implementations at lower levels Integration with third-party web services To demonstrate the SOA implementation sensor simulator in Python with multithreads support Individual threads can receive instructions via SPS to reduce the sampling interval to say 1 second in an interactive and feature-rich geospatial application 4 TPM RPC MOM ORB Target transactions procedures messages objects Coupling tight tight loose tight Synchrosync sync async sync nization over the contiguous U.S each of which reports some of the differences between these middleware types The data-centered loosely-coupled and asynchronous nature of message-oriented middleware makes it the perfect choice for sensor web services Table 1 Comparison of four types of middleware Figure 4 Protocol stack of LISW After surveying and testing many MOM candidates on ActiveMQ from Apache 9 due to cost openness community support and maturity considerations and it proved to be on the Asynchronous Javascript and XML AJAX 10 technology see below which can be dynamically created without server-side intervention Therefore it is extremely flexible to support more SWE web services on-demand such as Server Alert Service Middleware The middleware is probably the most critical component in constructing are used for sampling data evoking SPS to receive instructions and evoking SOS to deliver data respectively As an SWE framework It ease the implementation of the high-level web services and provide reliability and transparency for the data exchange There we settled a publisher/subscriber programming model and reliable asynchronous message delivery Thus it a crashed as SensorML and hands the data we simulated 60 temperature sensors scattered a synthetic temperature reading every 10 seconds Meanwhile the simulator a region specified by the parameters in the SPS At can also be encoded with various XML dialects including SensorML The data packing and encoding are transparent to the middleware therefore we developed a web application which integrates the sensor readings with the SPS-specified sampling parameters and encodes the data such sensor data to sensor data currently include the sensor ID latitude longitude and temperature reading from each sensor but much sensor web services LISW provides with other third-party web services to create a sound decision ActiveMQ is a Jave Messaging Service JMS MOM It supports a loosely-coupled and robust system to integrate distributed applications The asynchronous nature of the message delivery is particularly useful for the interaction between the web service providers and a service a proof-of-concept demonstration a lower level the SOS acts a pre-defined topic and listens for SPS instructions from another topic The 


We use Google Map as an example We developed a web application to tap into Google Map's web services to retrieve map information and satellite imagery Meanwhile we interface with the SWE web services from LISW to get temperature data over the U S and overlay them on the Google Map Figure 5 shows a snapshot of this application A user can control the Google Map the usual way including zoom pan and switch between Map Satellite and Hybrid while the temperature data are displayed and updated in real-time at a rate of 1 sample per 10 seconds In addition a user can click a region on the map and this will evoke the SPS and the sensors around this region will send in temperature readings with an increased sampling rate 1 sample per 1 second Due to the asynchronous nature of the underlying messaging system ActiveMQ for our web services we can use an event-callback model to develop highly interactive applications such as the visualization interface with Google Map In particular for this application we used the AJAX technology therefore the interaction with the two SWE services from the front-end is carried out in the background asynchronously while in the foreground the application can interact with user responsively This SWE framework has been built for integrating traditional modeling and data-assimilation applications with sensor webs The optimal two-way interaction between models and sensors/sensor networks within such a framework creates new opportunities for significant scientific return and cost saving Ultimately this framework will be used to couple the GSFC Land Information System LIS with sensor webs to demonstrate such benefits To validate this framework we developed a sensor simulator to provide SOS service and to evoke SPS service and a web application which uses these web services to collect and display simulated temperature data on Google Map in realtime with AJAX technology This dynamic and open framework allows creation of new web services on the fly Therefore it is convenient to add new SWE services such as Sensor Alert Service SAS and publishing services to web service registries such as NASA's Earth Observation System Clearinghouse ECHO  1 in future work I hind InlowiititnuS e-ts~ou NWb D Figure 5 Snapshots of LISW's simulated sensors over the U S displayed on Google Map in real-time 4 SUMMARY We implemented a working service-oriented architecture SOA with prototype OGC Sensor Web Enablement SWE web services The two SWE web services Sensor Observation Service SOS and Sensor Planning Service SPS were created with REST-style web services The underlying messaging mechanism to support the web services is facilitated by a message-oriented middleware 5 


REFERENCES 1 Kumar S V C D Peters-Lidard Y Tian P R Houser J Geiger S Olden L Lighty J L Eastman B Doty P Dirmeyer J Adams K Mitchell E F Wood and J Sheffield Land Information System An Interoperable Framework for High Resolution Land Surface Modeling Environmental Modelling  Software 21 1402-1415 2006 2 Peters-Lidard C D P R Houser Y Tian S V Kumar J Geiger S Olden L Lighty B Doty P Dirmeyer J Adams K Mitchell E F Wood and J Sheffield Highperformance Earth system modeling with NASA/GSFC's Land Information System Innovations in Systems and Software Engineering 3 157-165 2007 3 Open Geospatial Consortium OGC Sensor Web Enablement Overview and High Level Architecture OGC White Paper M Botts et al ed Ver 2 14pp 2006 4 Hill C C DeLuca V Balaji M Suarez and A da Silva The Architecture of the Earth System Modeling Framework Computing in Science  Engineering 6 18-28 2004 5 Fielding R T Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software Architectures Ph.D Dissertation Univ California Irvine 2000 6 Richardson L and S Ruby RESTful Web Services O'Reilly 446pp 2007 7 Amazon Web Services 8 Bernstein P A Middleware A Model for Distributed Services Communications of the ACM 39 2 86-97 1996 9 ActiveMQ web site h 10 Zakas N C J McPeak and J Fawcett Professional Ajax Wiley 2006 11 ECHO web site BIOGRAPHY Yudong Tian received a Ph.D in Atmospheric Sciences in 1999 from UL,where his conducted research in climate dynamics and geophysical fluid dynamics He was also one of the developers at UCLA for the popular advanced spectral analysis SSA-MTM Toolkit Prior to joining GEST/Goddard Space Flight Center he had been working in the Internet industry holding positions as systems manager and chief technology officer In addition to his atmospheric research background he has extensive professional experience in network architecture software engineering database design and system and network security He has been working on GSFC's Land Information System since early 2002 a highperformance computing platform for real-time land surface simulation which won NASA's 2005 Software of the Year Award Dr Paul Houser is an expert in local to global land surface-atmospheric remote sensing in-situ observation and numerical simulation development and application of hydrologic data assimilation methods and global water and energy cycling He received his B.S and Ph.D degrees in Hydrology and Water Resources from the University of Arizona in 1992 and 1996 respectively Dr Houser joined the NASA-GSFC Hydrological Sciences Branch and the Data Assimilation Office in 1997 and served as manager of NASA s Land Surface Hydrology Program from 1999-2000 and served as branch head of the Hydrological Science Branch from 2000-2005 In 2005 he joined the George Mason University Climate Dynamics Program as the Professor of Global Hydrology andformed the Center for Research for Environment and Water Dr Houser has led numerous scientific contributions including the development of Land Data Assimilation Systems LDAS the Hydrospheric States Mission Hydros the Land Information System LIS the NASA Energy and Water cycle Study NEWS and the Water Cycle Solutions Network WaterNet Dr Hongbo Su worked on quantitative remote sensing including land surface temperature  _ retrieval and terrestrial evapotranspiration estimation His 1 _research currently focuses on integration of satellite observations into land surface modeling to study the water cycle and surface energy balance at regional or global scales 6 


Sujay V Kumar received a B Tech in civil engineering from Indian Institute of Technology Bombay in 1996 and an M.S in civil engineering from North Carolina State University Raleigh in 1998 He continued at North Carolina State University for a Ph.D in civil engineering with emphasis on computer aided high performance computing applications He finished his Ph.D degree in January 2002 He is currently an assistant research scientist at Goddard Earth Sciences and Technology Center Goddard Space Flight Center NASA James V Geiger Jr received the B.S degree in Mathematics from Old Dominion University in 1993 Since 1992 he has been a civil servant at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center He is currently a member of the Advanced Data Management and Analysis Branch and the Hydrological Sciences Branch His research interests include land surface modeling mathematics computer science/parallel software development 7 


aelay less that 20 sec This finding does not consider abort guidance and control 3 The results specific probability numbers strongly depend on the Markov chain model of the FDIR performance The previous conclusions assume the worst-case model The Monte Carlo simulation study undertaken to quantify FDIR performance parameters in the model was quite sensitive to configuration and tuning of the FDIR algorithms This emphasizes the importance of FDIR in the overall system design REFERENCES 1 D J Allerton and H Jia A review of multisensor fusion methodologies for aircraft navigation systems The Journal of Navigation Vol 58 2005 pp 405-417 2 P S Babcock G Rosh and J J Zinchuk An automated environment for optimizing fault-tolerant systems design IEEE Annual Maintainability and Reliability Symposium 1991 Orlano FL 31 P Buchholz Structured analysis techniques for large Markov Chains ACM Workshop on Tools for Solving Structured Markov Chains October 2006 Pisa Italy 4 R W Butler and S C Johnson Techniques for Modeling the Reliability of Fault-Tolerant Systems With the Markov State-Space Approach NASA Reference Publication 1348 September 1995 5 Current State ofReliability Modeling Methodologies for Digital Systems and Their Acceptance Criteria for Nuclear Power Plant Assessments The Ohio State University U.S Nuclear Regulatory Commission Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research Washington DC 205550001 6 C D'Souza C Hanak P Spehar F D Clark and M Jackson Orion Rendezvous Proximity Operations and Docking Design and Analysis AIAA GN&C Conference Hilton Head SC August 2007 7 S Everett K Markin P Wroblewski and M Zeltser Design considerations for achieving MLS Category III requirements Proceedings of IEEE Vol 77 No 11 1989 pp 1752-1761 8 Exploration Systems Architecture Study Final Report Chapter 8 Risk and Reliability NASA 2005 available http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/140639main ESAS 08.pdf 9 W Fehse Automated Rendezvous and Docking of Spacecraft Cambridge University Press New York NY 2003 10 G Hoffmann D Gorinevsky R Mah C Tomlin and J Mitchell Fault tolerant relative navigation using inertial and relative sensors AIAA GN&C Conference August 2007 Hilton Head SC 11 R.T Howard A.S Johnston T.C Bryan and M L Book Advanced video guidance sensor AVGS development testing NASA Marshall Space Flight Center 2004 NTRS 2004-11-03 Document ID 20040071003 12 M K Jeerage Reliability analysis of fault-tolerant IMU architectures with redundant inertial sensors IEEE AES Magazine July 1990 13 R Majure Demonstration of a ring laser gyro system for pointing and stabilization applications IEEE PLANS 90 Position Location and Navigation Symposium Las Vegas NV March 1990 14 J D Mitchell S P Cryan D Strack L L Brewster M L Williamson R T Howard A S Johnston Automated rendezvous and docking sensor testing at the flight robotics laboratory IEEE Aerospace Conference 3-10 March 2007 15 Mobius Model based environmentfor validation of system reliability availablity security and performance available http://www.mobius.uiuc.edu 16 Navigation Accelerometers QA2000-020 Performance Specifications available http://www.honeywell.com July 2007 17 M E Pate-Cornell and L M Lakats Organizational warning systems a probabilistic approach to optimal design IEEE Trans on Engineering Management Vol 51 No 2 2004 pp 183-196 18 M E Polites Technology of automated rendezvous and capture in space Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets Vol 36 No 2 1999 19 V S Sharm and K S Trivedi Reliability and performance of component based software systems with restarts retries reboots and repairs 17th Internat Symp on Software Reliability Engineering Nov 2006 L20 L C G Rogers and D Williams Diffusions Markov Processes and Martingales Volume 1 Foundations Series Cambridge Mathematical Library 2nd Edition Cambridge University Press 2000 21 W E Vesely M Stamatelatos J B Dugan J Fragola J Minarick and J Railsback Fault Tree Handbook with Aerospace Applications Version 1.1 NASA Office of Safety and Mission Assurance Washington DC 20546 August 2002 22 B K Walker Performance evaluation of systems that include fault diagnostics Joint Automatic Control Conference June 1981 Charlottesville VA 23 S Tamblyn H Hinkel and D Saley NASA CEV reference GN&C architecture 30th Annual AAS Guidance and Control Conference February 3-7 2007 Breckenridge CO AAS 07-071 NASA/JSC/EG FltDyn-CEV-06-151 NASA DAA 11564 24 S Thrun W Burgard and D Fox Probabilistic Robotics MIT Press Cambridge MA 2005 25 0 Yong and J.B Dugan Approximate sensitivity analysis for acyclic Markov reliability models IEEE Transactions on Reliability Vol 52 No 2 2003 pp 220-230 


BIOGRAPHY Dimitry Gorinevsky is a Consulting Professor of Electrical Engineering in Information Systems Laboratory at Stanford University and a Principal of Mitek Analytics LLC He received a Ph.D from Moscow Lomonosov University and a M.Sc from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology He held research engineering and academic positions in Moscow Russia Munich Germany Toronto and Vancouver Canada He spent 10 years with Honeywell His interests are in decision and control systems applications across many industries He has authored a book more than 140 reviewed technical papers and a dozen patents Dr Gorinevsky is an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology He is a recipient of Control Systems Technology Award 2002 and Transactions on Control Systems Technology Outstanding Paper Award 2004 of the IEEE Control Systems Society He is a Fellow of IEEE Gabriel Hoffmann is a PhD candidate at Stanford He is also with Mitek Analytics LLC working on NASA AR&D project At Stanford Gabriel develops hardware flight software and control laws for a fleet of quadrotor helicopter unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs He has been the team lead for controls systems for the Stanford Racing Team since 2004 He designed the control system that ran the autonomous unmanned vehicle Stanley though a 132 mile race across off-road desert terrain to win DARPA Grand Challenge in 2005 He also designed the control system that ran the autonomous unmanned vehicle Junior through 56 miles of urban terrain to place second in the DARPA Urban Challenge Gabriel interned at Boeing Space Systems Houston working on the International Space Station He interned at the NASA Ames Academy in 2001 Marina Shmakova is working on modeling and analysis of fault tolerant systems with Mitek Analytics LLC She is also a Staff Scientist at Physics Department of Stanford University She worked on analysis of Hubble Space Telescope data including the attitude and pointing data and observational data As a research associate at Stanford Linear Accelerator Center Dr Shmakova worked on different aspects of astrophysics and high energy physics She has Ph.D and in MS in Physics from University of Tennessee Robert Mah is a Senior Scientist in Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Research Center ARC He received a Ph.D in Applied Mechanics and M.S in Mechanical Engineering from Stanford University in 1988 and 1976 He has led and managed NASA projects and groups for more than 30 years He is a recipient of many NASA awards including NASA Exceptional Achievement Medal three Space Act awards several awards for Technology Transfer and Commercialization Spacecraft Docking Simulation Award and several others He published a few dozen papers and has several patents received and pending He was a keynote or invited speaker at many international and NASA conferences his work was featured in the media Dr Mah currently is a Project Scientist for Integrated Vehicle Health Management project in NASA Aviation Safety Program Scott Cryan received BS Aerospace Engineering from University of Buffalo in 1988 Since then he has been working Space Shuttle and Intermational Space Station GPS receivers In addition to the GPS receiver role on Space Shuttle and ISS he had been working on GPS _ii lreceivers for several projects at NASA JSC Recently Mr Cryan has been investigating relative navigation sensor performance via testing and analyses with open loop simulations Currently Mr Cryan is the relative navigation subsystem manager for the CEV Project at NASA-JSC Jennifer Mitchell is the Crew Exploration Vehicle Flight Dynamics Deputy Functional Area Manager at NASAs Johnson Space Center and also serves as the Project Manager for the Exploration Systems Technology Development Au_0 tomated Rendezvous and Docking Sensor Technology Project She has supported guidance navigation and control system development and testing for the Autonomous Extravehicular Robotic Camera AERCam the International Space Station and the X38 Crew Return Vehicles Space Integrated Global Positioning System  Inertial Navigation System She has a BS in Aerospace Engineering from Texas A&M University 


 10 data obtained from the industrial motor test setup. Data was acquired using the experimental fault profile in Figure 15. A snapshot of raw data, including the calculated feature values, is provided in Figure 16 Anomaly Detection\227 The particle filter framework was integrated into LabVIEW to evaluate the real-time performance of the anomaly detector during data acquisition. Shown in Figure 17 is a GUI developed in LabVIEW to manage the anomaly detector settings which include the false alarm rate \(type I error\and false alarm threshold \(type II error  Addi t i onal  confi gurat i on settings include the number of particles used by the particle filter, baseline statistics, fault model, and particle filter update / sample time The results from anomaly detector, using the data shown previously in Figure 16, are provided in Figure 18. The green line represents the confidence of detection based on the false alarm rate and the red line represents the alarm, or detection, threshold as defined earlier in Figure 17. The red dot designates the crossing point during which the red health-state light illuminates to indicate an anomaly has occurred 6  C ONCLUSION  This paper presented a particle-filter based anomaly detector capable of detecting the occurre nce of a major fault mode in its incipient stages for a safe ty critical aircraft actuation system. An overview of a ge neric PHM architecture were presented and applied to a particular EMA fault mode based on an internal FMEA study. The fault mode investigated in detail was a turn-to-turn winding insulation short for a brushless DC motor. The primary fault mode was modeled using physics-of-failure mechan isms indicating the primary failure effect, phase current asymmetry. A feature was derived using a Hilbert transform and statistical analysis to quantify the primary failure eff ect. Then, experimental data was acquired to validate the Simulink simulation model Finally, real-time evaluation of the anomaly detector was performed using LabVIEW  Although a specific system, an EMA, was selected as the test-platform with a specific fault mode, the overall PHM architecture can be applied to an entire range of systems and application domains. In fact, similar techniques which allow  Figure 16\227Plots of experimental data \(top computed features \(bottom experimental test setup using LabVIEW  Figure 17\227LabVIEW interface used to define particle filter settings Figure 18\227Plot of anomaly detection confidence \(top and health state indicator \(bottom\the experimental test setup using LabVIEW 


 11 for early fault detection dur ing acceptable performance in the presence of faults are being developed for a wide variety of system in both manned and unmanned air vehicles Therefore, the concept of usi ng system health information diagnosis and prognosis\n conjunction with reconfigurable control is at the forefront of modern space and avionics applications requiring increasingly sophisticated fault-tolerant systems that are robust, reliable and relatively inexpensive. Ther efore the need arises for a fault-tolerant control architecture to further maximize performance and extend the operating life of COTS components in future avionics systems A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This work was performed under the United States Air Force USAF\contract number FA8650-06-C-7628. The program is sponsored by the USAF Air Force Research Laboratory AFRL orate \(RB\Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio. Mr. J.B. Schroeder, AFRL/RBCC is the Air Force Technical POC a nd Robert Chen is the NGC Program Manager and Principal Investigator. Georgia Institute of Technology \(GA Tech\lead the algorithm development and MOOG Aero space provided actuator and motor data. Tests presented herein were conducted at NGC R EFERENCES  1  M Orch ard  223A Particle Filterin g Based Fram ewo r k  for On-Line Fault Diagnosis and Failure Prognosis,\224 Ph.D. Thesis, Electrical a nd Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of T echnology, Atlanta, 2007 2 M. Orch ard  G. Vach tsev an o s, \223A Particle Filterin g  Approach for On-Line Fault Diagnosis and Failure Prognosis,\224 Transactions of the Institute of Measurement and Control in print   M. Orchard, B. W u and G. Vachtsevanos, \223A Particle Filter Framework for Failure Prognosis,\224 Proceedings of WTC2005, World Tribology Congress III  Washington D.C., USA, 2005    D. B rown, D. Edwards, G Georgoul as B  Zhang and G. Vachtsevanos, "Real-Time Fault Detection and Accommodation for COTS Resolver Position Sensors 1st International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM Oct. 69, 2008   A M u rray  H. B ruce and A. Hi rao, \223R esol ver Posi t i on Sensing System with Integrated Fault Detection for Automotive Applications,\224 Proc. of IEEE Sensors  vol. 2, pp. 864 \226 869, 2002   B  Zhang G. Georgoul as, M Orchard, A. Saxena, D Brown, G. Vachtsevanos, S. Liang, \223Rolling Element Bearing Feature Extraction and Anomaly Detection Based on Vibration Monitoring\224 Mediterranean Conference on Control and Automation pp. 17921797, June 2008   B  Wu A. Saxena, R Pat r i c k-Al daco, and G Vachtsevanos, \223Vibration Monitoring for Fault Diagnosis of Helicopter Planetary Gears,\224 Proceedings of 16th IFAC World Congress July 2005   R  R  Schoen T. G. Habet l e r, F. Kam r an, and R G Bartheld, \223Motor bearing damage detection using stator current monitoring,\224 IEEE Trans  Ind. Appl  vol. 31, no. 6, pp. 1274\2261279, Nov./Dec. 1995   M  B a y but t  S. Nanduri  P W. Kalgren, D. S. Bodden N. S. Clements and S. Alipour, \223Seeded Fault Testing and In-situ Analysis of Critical Electronic Components in EMA Power Circuitry,\224  IEEE Aerospace Conference March 2008    N H M a lik, A. A. Al-Arainy and M I. Quereshi 223Electrical Insulation in Power Systems\224, Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, 1998    S. Nandi and H. A. Tol i y at  223C ondi t i on m oni t o ri ng and fault diagnosis of electrical machines \226 A review,\224 in Proceedings of the 34th Annual Meeting of the IEEE Industry Applications pp. 197-204, 1999   P. J. Tavner and J Penm an 223 Condition Monitoring of Electrical Machines 224 Res. Studies Press, 1987   C Xi anrong, V. C o cquem pot and C C h ri st ophe 223A model of asynchronous machines for stator fault detection and isolation,\224 IEEE Trans  Ind. Electron  vol. 50, no. 3, pp. 578\226584, Jun. 2003   J Penm an H G. Seddi ng, B A. Ll oy d, and W. T Fink, \223Detection and location of interturn short circuits in the stator windings of operating motors,\224 IEEE Trans. Energy Convers vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 652\226 658, Dec. 1994    D. Hansel m a n, \223B rushl e ss Perm anent M a gnet M o t o r Design,\224 The Writers' Collective, 2003   S. E. Lyshevski, \223Elect romechanical Systems, Electric Machines, and Applied Mechatronics\224, CRC Press Boca Raton, FL, 1999   D. Y. Ohm Dy n am i c M odel of PM  Sy nchronous Motors," Drivetech, Inc Blacksburg, Virginia www.drivetech.com     L. Youngkook and  T. G. Habet l e r, \223A St at or Turn Fault Tolerant Strategy for Induction Motor Drives in Safety Critical Applications,\224 IEEE PESC \22206 June 


 12 18-22 2006   M Johansson, "The Hi l b ert t r ansform  M a st er Thesi s  of Mathematics / Applied Mathematics, V\344xj\366 University, March 1999  E. B. Saff, A. D. Snider., \223Com plex analysis for mathematics, science and engineering\224, Prentice-Hall Inc., New York, 1976    Henri c i  Pet e r, \223Appl i e d and com put at i onal com p l e x analysis\224, Vol. 1, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, 1988  M Orchard, G. Kacprzynski, K. Goebel, B. Saha, and G. Vachtsevanos, \224Advances in Uncertainty Representation and Management for Particle Filtering Applied to Prognostics,\224 PHM08 Conference Denver CO, October 2008    B Zhang, C Scony ers, C B y i ngt on, R Pat ri c k, M  Orchard, G. Vachtsevanos, \223Anomaly Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of Unanticipated Faults,\224 PHM Conference Denver CO, October 2008    R Pat ri c k, M Orchard B. Zhang, M. Koelemay, G Kacprzynski, A. Ferri, G. Vachtsevanos, \223An Integrated Approach to Helicopter Planetary Gear Fault Diagnosis and Failu re Prognosis,\224 42nd annual Systems Readiness Technology Conference AUTOTESTCON 2007 Baltimore, USA, September 2007 B IOGRAPHY  Douglas W. Brown received the B.S degree in electrical engineering from the Rochester Institute of Technology in 2006. He is a recipient of the National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate \(NDSEG Fellowship and is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering at the Georgi a Institute of Technology specializing in control system s. His research interests include incorporation of Prognostics Health Management PHM\contro l. Prior to joining Georgia Tech, Douglas was employed as a project engineer at Impact Technologies where he worked on incipient fault detection techniques, electronic component test strategies and diagnostics/prognostic algorithms for power supplies and RF component applications  George Georgoulas received Diploma and PhD degrees from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Patras Patras in 1999 and 2006, respectively He joined the ICSL in October 2006 as a postdoctorate. His research interests include intelligent data analysis and development of decision support systems for complex systems  Hyeon Bae was born in Jinju, Korea, in 1973. He graduated in electrical engineering from Gyeongsang National University, Korea, in 1999. He received the M.S. and Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Pusan National University, Korea, in 2001 and 2005 respectively. He was a Postdoctoral Researcher with Research Institute of Computer Information and Communication \(RICIC Imaging and Information Tec hnology Center \(IITC\, Pusan National University, in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In 2008, he was a Postdoctoral Researcher with Georgia Institute of Technology, GA, U S.A. His research interests are data mining, intelligent system and control, and intelligent manufacturing system \(IMS  George J. Vachtsevanos is a Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He was awarded a B.E.E. degree from the City College of New York in 1962, a M.E.E. degree from New York University in 1963 and the Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from the City University of New York in 1970. He directs the Intelligent Control Systems laboratory at Georgia Tech where faculty and students are conducting resear ch in intelligent control neurotechnology and cardiotec hnology, fault diagnosis and prognosis of large-scale dynamical systems and control technologies for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. His work is funded by government agencies and industry. He has published over 240 technical papers and is a senior member of IEEE. Dr. Vachtsevanos was awarded the IEEE Control Systems Magazine Outstanding Paper Award for the years 2002-2003 \(with L. Wills and B. Heck awarded the 2002-2003 Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Distinguished Professor Award and the 2003-2004 Georgia In stitute of Technology Outstanding Interdisciplinary Activities Award  Robert H. Chen received the Ph.D degree in mechanical engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 2000. He is currently a Senior Research Engineer at Northrop Grumman Corp., Integrated Systems Sector, Western Region. His research interests include fault detection, identification, and reconstruction with applica tion to distributed aerospace systems, guidance and contro l of aerospace vehicles, and homing missile guidance and estimation  


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


