The advent of social media is changing the existing information behavior by letting users access to real-time online information channels without the constraints of time and space It also generates a huge amount of data worth discovering novel knowledge. Social media, therefore, has created an enormous 
Abstract 
RT 2 M : Real-time Twitter Trend Mining System  Min Song Dept. of Library and Information Science Yonsei University Seoul, Republic of Korea min.song@yonsei.ac.kr Meen Chul Kim Dept. of Library and Information Science Yonsei University Seoul, Republic of Korea andrewevans@yonsei.ac.kr   
challenge for scientists trying to keep pace with developments in their field. Most of the previous studies have adopted broadbrush approaches which tend to result in providing limited analysis. To handle these problems properly, we introduce our real-time Twitter trend mining system, RT≤M, which operates in real-time to process big stream datasets available on Twitter. The system offers the functions of term co-occurrence retrieval visualization of Twitter users by query, similarity calculation between two users, Topic Modeling to keep track of changes of topical trend, and analysis on mention-based user networks. We also demonstrate an empirical study on 2012 Korean presidential election. The case study reveals Twitter could be a useful source 
to detect and predict the advent and changes of social issues, and analysis of mention-based user networks could show different aspects of user behaviors 
 I NTRODUCTION  Social media is a representative form of the Web 2.0 services which has undoubtedly contributed to the emergence of Big Data, based on voluntary and active participation of users. Throughout the world, social media receives spotlights by a lot of Web users because of the benefits in that 1\ no professional knowledge and skills are required to produce and 
KeywordsÑsocial media mining; real-time Twitter trend miming system; topic modeling; network analysis; Korean presidential election 
 
I 
share contents in real-time and 2\ social network among users with similar interests can be easily formed [2   Fa ce b o o k an d  Twitter, representative social media services, have estimated users of each 850 million and 500 million people all over the world [30   On the other hand, a variety of research areas such as social network analysis, opinion mining, and so on has paid attention to extract the meaningful information among vast amounts of data daily produced in social media. For example, the presidential election camp which led U.S. President Barack Obama to be successfully re-elected recruited many data experts for the analysis of social media data while preparing the last presidential election. Like this instance, social media 
has been main foci to the field of Information Retrieval and Text Mining from its first advent because not only it produces massive unstructured textual data and user relations in realtime but also it could be used as an influential channel for opinion leading such as agenda-setting and public opinion formation. This creates an enormous challenge for scientists trying to keep pace with developments in their field Until now, however, most of the previous studies have focused on somewhat limited approaches including 1 retroactively designed experimental conditions which give dynamic queries to static data collection [6    2   generic issue modeling [6   a n d  3  soc i al ne t w o r k  
analysis based on simply visible connectivity such as follow/following relationship in Twitter [3  1 3  Th ese  approaches could face with following daunting challenges in finding and analyzing new information. First, enormous social media data is being generated in real-time. It could be therefore, ineffective for using static data to detect continuously changing social trends such as usersê interests and public issues. Second, a specific issue is likely to be composed of several subordinate events. Thus, it needs to examine formation and extinction of the related events, and users reaction for effective analysis of the issue from various angles Finally, user network in Twitter has different characteristics from those of other social media. In other words, users in 
Twitter can make relations with others by sending-receiving mentions. Hence, only concentrating on the follow/following connection cannot properly reflect the trait of the user networks in Twitter. In addition, there is a growing need to identify dynamic changes of user networks accompanied by those of social issues in the real world Therefore, our study aims at designing and developing the RT 2 M \(Real-time Twitter Trend Mining\system which allows in real-time to 1\ crawl and store every textual data \(çtweets generated in Twitter into a local database, 2\ keep track of social issues by temporal Topic Modeling, and 3\ visualize mention-based user networks. We also demonstrate a case 
study related to 2012 Korean presidential election carried by the RT≤M system The rest of the article is organized as follows: Section 2 surveys on related works. Section 3 provides the detailed descriptions of the proposed methodology. Section 4 reports a case study, and Section 5 concludes the paper  This study was supported by National Research Foundation of Korea Grant funded by the Korean Government \(NRF-2012-2012S1A3A2033291 
2013 International Conference on Social Intelligence and Technology 978-0-7695-4998-9/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/SOCIETY.2013.19 64 


A Twitter Mining System D D ata Collection 
II R ELATED W ORKS  Social media draws every attention from communities for it offers a whole ne w understand the social practices. Diverse aca d therefore, focus on various methodologies s u network analysis, opinion mining, and etc w discover unrevealed knowledge and inform a backdrop, initial studies on social media foc u understand user behavior in social media an community [8  11  T h e y  h o w e ve r  sim p ly  f connectivity represented by follow/followi n could not properly take a view of user n e because those in Twitter can make relatio n sending-receiving mentions without visib l addition,  other studies revealed that connection could not be a useful indicator to 3  a n d  co nt e n t s a nd se n d i ng-r ec e i vi n g be considered to properly calculate dista n among users 22 W e  t h er e f or e  a mentioned-based user networks to tackle t proper manner. In other words, we concent r thematic coherence among users resided sending-receiving mentions. Meanwhile, res e employ various approaches for mining unre v from social data. Among them, LDA is of g field of Text Mining for modeling la t unstructured textual data such as the Web   Co nt r a r y t o i t s s o und m a t he m a however, it has a fatal limit that there d o validated method for evaluation. In this stud y LDA to compare and analyze relationshi p extracted from tweets on 2012 Korean presi d related events in the real world. At the sam e that modeled topics based on term co-occur r time twitter trend mining system empl o occurrence retrieval technique to trace c h occurred terms to compensate the limit a suggesting double-layered Topic Modeling In addition, , the SCAN [28 alg o r i th m techniques than other community detecti o identifying hub nodes connecting comm u removing outliers that play any significant r o In reality, a hybrid approach combining T o community detection was devised for ident i b etween research topics and scholarly com m work also employs modularity and algorithm to detect invisible community exis t On the one hand, some studies regarded b as forum and opinion channel where user s issues, and evaluated their political p o Recently, not only researches on how micr o the actual political events [7  2 5  bu t a l utilizing social media for predicting th p residential elections [15   w N onetheless, they failed to make valid appropriate prediction, because they d influential variables such as temporal facto r features [1   I n t h e pre se nt  st ud y   w temporal changes of topical trends in Twitt e various scholastic w opportunity to d emic community u ch as text mining w ith social media to a tion. Against this u sed on attempts to d structure of user f ocused on generic n g relations which e tworks in Twitter n s with others by l e connection. In follow/following find an influence r  g messages should n ce and similarity a im at analyzing t his problem in a r ate on identifying i n the action of e arch communities v ealed information g rea t interest in the t ent issues from and social media a tical foundation o es not exist any y we hire temporal p between topics d ential election and e time, like a study r ence [6  ou r re alo ys the term coh ronologically coa tion of LDA by m suggests faster o n approaches in u nities as well as o les in the network o pic Modeling and i fying relationship m unities   O u r  Voltage-clustering t ing among users b log and microblog s discuss political o tentials 26  o bloging a f fects to l so studies about e results of the w ere conducted explanation and d id not consider r and length of the e also demonstrate e r on 2012 Korean p residential election by using R tried to explain userês behavi media, and make prediction indicated that supporting for a c could be an indicator to pr e sentiment analysis with soci a voterês political disposition [1 addressing temporal chang e presidential election with realt with mention-based social net w  III M E T In this section, we introd u RT≤M, which operates in re datasets available on Twitte r Twitter data on 2012 Kor e demonstrate the usefulness o f  specifically focus on topic tre n to examine p residential issues e  Figure 1 shows the system o system description is provided i Fig. 1 As aforementioned earlier  develop a real-time Twitter tr e collection and various text an a collects tweets on Twitter in K user ID, and time stamps with Twitter4J. We store keywords  user and a set of mentions, pair in Redis DB. Redis is an op e database \(http://redis.io\. The memory so it is extremely fas t store because it provides a hig h multiple processes, multiple a p R T 2 M. Various studies also have or on political issues in social by mining social data c ertain candidate in social media e dict a result of election, and a l data would properly explain 8  2 4   We  th e ref or e f o cu s on  e s of topical trend on the t ime data streaming basis along w ork analysis T HODOLOGY  u ce our Twitter mining system al-time to process big stream r By utilizing RT≤M to mine e an Presidential Election, we f RT≤M. For demonstration, we n d analysis and network analysis e mbedded in Twitter data o verview of RT≤M. The detailed i n Section A   the goal of this system is to e nd mining system by effective a lysis of big stream data. RT≤M K orea \(http://www.twitter.com Twitter Stream API provided in  mentions, as well as pairs of a s of a user and a set of keywords e n source based ke y value store entire data se t is stored int We chose Redis as key-value h ly scalable data store shared by p plications, and multiple servers 
 
System Overview of RT 2 M 
  
 
65 


RT 2 M System Term Co-occurrence Retrieval with the Query Term çGuen Hae Park Visualization of Twitter Users by the Query Term çJae In Moon Multinomial Topic Modeling Result To examine the performance of RT≤M, we collect 1,737,969 tweets with the query term çGeun Hae Parké, çJae In Mooné, çChul Su Ahné, and çPresidential Electioné for one month from October 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 
1\ Term Co-occurrence Retrieval 2\ Visualization of Twitter Users by Query 3\ Similarity Calculation between Two Users t d t 4\ Topic Modeling 
002\003 004 005\006\003 007\010\011 012\013\002\003 007\010\011 014\005\006\003 007 
Along with Redis, we employ the My-SQL relational database to store tweets and time stamps information in disk for further analysis. Redis makes it easier to do the real-time Twitter mining, term co-occurrence retrieval, mention-based Twitter network visualization, and TFIDF-based user similarity. To store keywords, we use the KTS http://kldp.net/projects/kts  a probability based Korean morphological analyzer, for spotting important terms. The main reason to use KTS is because it provides sophisticated, well-defined probabilistic rules. However, since tweets contains idiosyncratic terms or jargons, we build a customized lexicon The main page of RT≤M is shown in Figure 2. Functions provided in RT≤M are as follows  Fig. 2 Given a query, the system retrieves the list of terms co-occurred with the query term. Once the list is obtained, it sorts co-occurred terms by cooccurrence frequency and can display the result with an option of 100, 500, 1,000, and 2,000 terms. Like other functions provided in the system, co-occurred terms are dynamically updated and displayed as more Twitter stream data is received Figure 3 below shows one part of the result of term cooccurrence retrieval  Fig. 3 Upon the query term, the system visualizes the social network graph of Twitter users mentioned together with the query term. The visualized graph is bidirectional. The social network analysis for the mention-based Twitter users is provided in the next section Figure 4 below shows one part of the result of visualizing Twitter users by query  Fig. 4 It computes cosine similarity between two users comparing terms they use in their tweets, weighted by their tf-idf index. TF-IDF, which stands for term frequency multiplied by inverse document frequency, is a well-received weighting scheme in information retrieval to produce a composite weight for each term in each document [20 T h e  t f-i d f w e i ght i ng sc he m e a s s i gns t o t e r m  a weight in document given by In our work, we count a raw frequency of every term in one tweet posting, excluding stopwords. Then, we calculate the tfidf weighting of a certain term, multiplying a tf by an idf dividing the total number of tweets by the number of tweets containing the term, and then taking the logarithm of that quotient The system generates N topics specified by a user along with topical terms for the time period that the user selects. For the topic modeling technique, we employ the Multinomial Latent Dirichlet Allocation technique The detailed description of the technique is provided in the next section. Figure 5 below shows one part of the result of temporal Topic Modeling. If a start time and end time are entered, the system returns chronological topic trends related to queries which were used upon data crawling  Fig. 5 
    
66 


This section describes text mining te c integrated into RT≤M. Some basic mini n explained in Section III.A and henceforth important mining techniques of RT≤M M Modeling and Community Detection fo r Analysis Docu m information retrieval or text mining is expresses an individual document and t documents in terms of term appearing in modeling is one of the document modeli n LDA, standing for Latent Dirichlet Alloc a Blei at al. [1  is on e of th e e a rl ies t t o pi c m o that is based on a graph model with an assu m priorb ased topic distribution. In other wor d documents as mixtures of topics that spi t certain probabilities. The topic modeling tec h paper is Dirichlet-multinomial regression D Mimno and McCallum [16   DMR is an e x Dirichlet Allocation \(LDA\proposed by B allows conditioning on arbitrary docu m including a long-linear prior on documentthat is a function of the features of the d author, publication venue, references, an d document let be a feature vector repr e Given the prior distribution of and h y the generative process for documents and follows 1 For each topic draw  noti n distinct Dirichlet distribution with th e the topic-word distribution \(a.k.a. hy p 2 For each document  Draw noting that a per-document th e Dirichlet distribution and is a c o where is the observed document d and is a vector of m e For each word  Draw noting t assignment of a word and  i of a document  Draw noting word of a document and i topic over the vocabulary with is a e Dirichlet prior on p er-parameters  e parameters o f a o variance function attribute vector of e tadata t hat is topic i s topic proportion that is th s preference of a  fixed parameters r values for prior the topic-word cs. The graphical r iption of a DMR Fig. 6 SNA\as been widely used individuals, groups, or societi e or a group is represented as a dependent relationship with e a since the inter-dependent re l service, extensive studies hav e However, the majority of stu d conduit of social medi a follow/following as the anal y Twitter has different character i media. In other words, us relationship by acting çfollo w interests in their own without Hence, only concentrating on t cannot properly reflect the t Twitter. In addition, dynam accompanied by those of socia l be identified. To this end, we u and their directness for the an a and visualization, we use an JUNG standing for Java Unive http://jung.sourceforge.net n for detecting user community In graph theory, meanwhi l group of nodes, any of whic h other node. In our mentionba that there are 1,537 componen t and 136,754 nodes. The co m carry great scientific and pract i correspond to behavior or f u such as social groups in a so c densely connected subset of n o to the remaining network. Co m valuable tool to analyze n  D MR Generative Process Model Social Network Analysis to analyze the relationship of e s in terms of network. A person a node, and each node has the a ch other \(tie\ social media l ationship is the core of the e been done in the field of SNA d ies on Twitter, a representative a have adopted Twitterês y sis unit. The user network in i stics from those of other social e r s in Twitter can make a w with others whom they have the consent of the other party t he follow/following connection t rait of the user networks in ic changes of user networks l issues in the real world need to u tilize mentions by Twitter users a lysis unit. For network analysis open source visualization tool rsal Network/Graph Framewor k  n d Voltage-clustering algorithm l e, a weak component means a h would be reachable from any a sed twitter network, we found t s consisting of 4,668,343 edges m munities from large networks i cal value because they typically u nctional units of the network c ial network. A community is a o des that is only sparsely linked m munity detection provides us a n etwork structure and better 
B Text Mining Techniques 1\ Multinomial Topic Modeling d  t Dir\(\002 d a b w d d t Dir\(\002 w 2\ User Network Analy s s is 
t 
Graphical Representation of D 
   
 
015 011 016 017 020\010 021 022 023 024 011 025\026\005\027 017 030 011 022 012\026\005\027 017 031\015\032 030 011 033 011 003\017\034 011 010\015 035 022 034 011 015 035 036 011\010\037 025 !"\002\005\017\024 011 022 002 037 024 011  011\010\037 025 !"\002\005\017\023  010 022 023 007   For DMR topic modeling, we set three 002 2 the variance of the prior on paramete r distribution; \003, the Dirichlet prior on distributions; and |T|, the number of topi representation of the aforementioned desc r generative model shows in Figure 6 c hniques that are n g techniques are we describe two M ultinomial Topic r Social Network m ent modeling in a technique that t he collection of documents. Topic n g techniques, and a tion proposed by o deling techniques m ptio n of Dirichlet d s, LDA represents t out words with h nique used in this D MR\roposed by x tension of Latent B lei et al. [1   a n d  m ent features by topic distributions d ocument such as d dates. For each e senting metadata y pe r parameters \003 their words is as n g that 017 033 011 022\022 013\(\005\002\\013\033 011 033 036 011\010\037  011\010\037  023 007\010  012 
  
67 


RK Query Term and Frequency  Moon 62,770 Ahn 57,420 Extension of Voting Time 7,192 Parkês Mother 20,326 Down Contract 4,678 Parkês Father 13,059 Single Candidate 3,240 Single Candidate 4,140 
  
A Comparison of Term Co-occurrence by Query B Social Issue Trend Analysis with DMR t n 
 
understand complex networks as well as provide better exploration and browsing tools for very large collections. In this paper, we employ the Voltage-clustering algorithm, which is suitable for a large social network. This algorithm is based on a priori that the clusters are of approximately the same size and uses a more complex method than k-means for determining cluster membership based on co-occurrence data    IV C ASE S TUDY   2012  K OREAN P RESIDENTIAL E LECTION  In this section, we discuss our case study related to 2012 Korean presidential election carried by the RT≤M system. By utilizing RT≤M to mine Twitter data on 2012 Korean Presidential Election, we demonstrate the usefulness of RT≤M as a real-time text miner. The demonstration is made by comparison of term co-occurrence by query, topic trend, and mention-based user network analysis for presidential issues embedded in Twitter data Table 1 below compares the partial results of term cooccurrence retrieval by using influential candidatesê name Geun Hae Parké, çJae In Mooné, and çChul Su Ahné as query terms TABLE I Across the board, general terms related to the event of the presidential election such as èPresidential Election Declaration of Supportê, èOpinion Pollê, and each candidateês counterpartsê names were occurred in common and frequently On the other hand, unique terms by queries also appeared they are bolded above. Terms such as èParkês Father and Motherê from the query èGuen Hae Parkê, èExtension of Voting Timeê and èSingle Candidateê from the query èJae In Moon and èDown Contractê and èSingle Candidateê from the query Chul Su Ahnê are the distinct features. In reality, events related to these unique key-words were main issues to each candidate. In particular, what is worth observing carefully is that in tweets which mentioned èJae In Moonê and èChul Su Ahnê, each otherês name was occurred with higher frequency and ranking than those on postings which mentioned èGuen Hae Parkê.  This is because èJae In Moonê and èChul Su Ahn have discussed single opposition candidacy Temporal topic trend on 2012 Korean presidential election shows in Figure 7 and Table II 10 20\pending on the change of the probability distribution, each topic shows two types of patterns: 1\ Rising tendency - topic #1, 2, and 2 Falling tendency - topic #3, 4  Fig. 7 
Parkê TF èMoonê TF Ahn TF 
T ERM C O OCCURRENCE C OMPARISON B Y Q UERIES  1 Presidential Election 634,540Moon 143,663 2 Declaration of Support 589,728 Presidential Election 92,062Ahn 53,554 3Park 530,307 Declaration of Support 62,766Park 38,750 4 Opinion Poll 492,762 Presidential Election 35,468 5Support 82,428 Opinion Poll 54,494 Declaration of Support 11,672 6Declaration 80,904Park 49,785 Opinion Poll 10,630 7 Ahn N onpart y  52,990 Democratic United Party 8,552 Democratic United Party 6,858 8Moon 46,614Saenuri Party 7,818Saenuri Party 6,752 9Ahn 40,078 Moonês Camp 7,796 Moonês Camp 6,540 10SNS Page 38,748 Moonês Wife 5,740 11 Moon TV 5,916 12 Moonês Wife 5,768 13 Parkês Policy 10,210 Discerning Interview 2,702 Topic Trends on the Presidential Election Overview 
1 
1\ The query terms èParkê, èMoonê, and èAhnê stand for presidential candidatesçGeun Hae Parké, çJae In Mooné, çChul Su Ahn  
  
68 


   
Label Terms Type 1  
 
To identify relationship between topical trend in Twitter and changes of social issues in the real world, we compared the topic #1 and #3, with actual events for the same period First, related to the topic #1 labeled as èJeongsu Foundationê, scandals on èJeongsu Foundationê and resignation of its board of directors received with media coverage on October 15. At increasing pace, the probability distribution of the topic in Twitter also changes, and even grows faster from October 10. Based on this observation, it indicates that controversial issues are propagated faster in Twitter than other media, and Twitter shows a predictive nature Second, during this period, suspicion on èChul Su Ahn Oct. 1\nd Ahnês elucidation for the truth were covered by mass media. This social issue, however, evened out soon because of the explanation of the Ahnês election camp. The topic #3 also shows falling tendency. Based on this, we identified that Twitter would be useful for keeping track of changes of topical influence User network in Twitter has different characteristics from those of other social media because users in Twitter can make a relationship by sending-receiving mentions between them. This study, therefore, aims at visualizing and analyzing contentbased networks of 136,754 users. Mention-based user network is analyzed by the following process. First, we use a query such as èGeun Hae Parkê to retrieve tweets that contain the query term. Then, we extract the list of users who posted those tweets Finally, directed user network is visualized, based on the list of users who mentioned them or were mentioned by them Network Visualization by Queries èGuen Hae Parkê shows in Figure 8. Based on analysis of user profiles and mentions, it turns out that A and B clusters of Parkês network are a set of users who have political leaning toward conservation. The other clusters consist of progressive ones. This result reveals that unlike a certain candidateês political identity, users in Twitter also mention about those who are different from their political dispositions. In addition, conservative-minded users interact with each other, consisting of a few large communities while the counterparts forming several small groups are connected by some nodes with high betweenness   Fig. 8 As shown above, we generated fourteen distinguished communities by the Voltage-clustering algorithm where the entire network has the value of 1.25E-04 in terms of modularity. This community structure reveals that 1\ the user communities on the issue of the presidential election are quite densely connected with a few sparse connections between groups and 2\he network of social interests divides naturally into subgroups. This result also indicates that detecting 
TABLE II T OPIC A NALYSIS  01 Jeongsu Foundation Park, Jeongsu Foundation MBC, Pillip Choi R 02 Candidate Park, Moon, Ahn Candidate, Election R 03 Parkês Approval Rating Park, Single Candidate Approval Rating F 04 Suspicion on Ahn Dissertation, Plagiarism Down Contract F Network Visualization by Queries èPark In addition, we examine how strongly the groups of the mention-based network are structured. To this end, we use modularity. Networks with high modularity tend to show a dense connection between the nodes within groups where a low modularity indicates sparse connections between nodes in different groups [17 M o du l a ri ty calcu l a ti on f o r th e en ti re  network by JUNG and detected communities by the Voltageclustering algorithm are shown in Table III TABLE III R ESULT OF C OMMUNITY D ETECTION  01 33,393 1.25E-04 02 27,666 03 38,987 04 32,648 05 3,760 06 208 07 20 08 15 09 16 10 1 11 1 12 3 13 1 14 35 
1\ê Typeê indicates èRêising or è Fêalling tendency of a specific issue 1\ The value of the modularity lies in the range between -0.5 and 1 
C Mention-based User Network Analysis 
Topic Description No Community Size Modularity 1  
B C A D E F G 
69 


Blei, D., Ng, A., and Jordan, M. 2003. Latent Dirichlet Allocation Journal of Machine Learning Research, 3: 993-1022 2 Boyd, D. M., & Ellison, N. B. 2007. Social network sites: definition history, and scholarship. Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 13\(1\. Available at http://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol13/issue1/boyd.ellison.html  3 Cha, M., Haddadi, H., Benevenutoz, F., and Gummadi, K. P. 2010 Measuring user influence in Twitter: the million follower. Proceedings of the 4th International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media 4 Chaney, A., Blei, D. 2012. Visualizing topic models. Proceedings of the 6th International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media 5 Chang, J., Boyd-Graber, J., Wang, C., Gerrish, S., and Blei, D. 2009 Reading tea leaves: how humans interpret topic models. Neural Information Processing Systems 6 Choi, D., Min, M., Kim J., and Lee, J. 2011. A Study on topic tracking using microblog. Proceedings of KIIS Spring Conference 2011, 21\(1 80-82 7 Drezner, D. W., and Henry F. 2007. Introduction - blogs, politics and power: a special issue of public choice. Public Choice, 134\(1-2\-13 8 Huberman, B. A., Romero, D. M., and Wu, F. 2008. Social networks that matter: Twitter under the microscope. Available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=1313405  9 Jansen, B. J., Zhang, M., Sobel, K., and Chowdury, A. 2009. Twitter power: tweets as electronic word of mouth. JASIST, 60: 1-20  Jansen, H. J., and Koop. R. 2005. Pundits, Ideologues, and Ranters: the british columbia election online. Canadian Journal of Communication 30\(4\: 613-632  Java, A., Song, X., Finin, T., and Tseng, B. 2007. Why we twitter understanding microblogging usage andcommunities. Proceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNA-KDD 2007 workshop on Web mining and socialnetwork analysis, 56-65  Kim, Y. 2011. Prediction of structure of spread of public opinion at Twitter with special emphasis on by-election for Seoul mayor. Political communucation, 23: 103-139  Kwak, H., Lee, C. Park, H., and Moon. S. What is Twitter, a social network or a news media? Proceedings of the 19th International conference on WWW, 591-600  Lee, K., Namgoong, H., Kim, E. H., Lee, K., and Kim, H. 2010 Analysis of multi-dimensional interaction among SNS users. Journal of Korean Society for Internet Information, 12\(2\: 113-122  Livne, A., Simmons, M., Adar, E., and Adamic, L. 2011. The party is overhere: Structure and content in the 2010 election. Proceedings of 5th ICWSM. Available at http://bit.ly/q9lSu   Mimno, D. M. and McCallum, A. 2008. Topic models conditioned on arbitrary features with Dirichlet-multinomial regression. UAI 2008, 411418  Newman, M. E. J. 2006. Modularity and community structure in networks. Proceedings of National Academy of Sciences, 103\(23 8577Ö8696  O'Connor, B., Balasubramanyan, R., Routledge, B. R., and Smith, N. A 2010. From tweets to polls: linking text sentiment to public opinion timeseries. Proceedings of 4th ICWSM, 122-129  Hong, L., Davison, B., D. 2010. Empirical study of topic modeling in Twitter. SOMA '10 Proceedings of the First Workshop on Social Media Analytics, 80-88  Sakaki, T., Okazaki, M., and Matsuo, Y. 2010. Earthquake shakes Twitter users: real-time event det ection by social sensors. WWW '10 Proceedings of the 19th WWW, 851-860  Salton G., McGill M. J. 1986.Introduction to modern information retrieval. NY: McGraw-Hill  Seol, k., Ki, J., Lee, C., and Baik, D. 2012. Intimacy measurement between adjacent users in social networks. Journal of KIISE, 39\(4\: 335341  Tamer, A. Wang, N., Hale, S., and I Graham, M. 2012. Obama wins the election! \(on Twitter\ Available at http://www.zerogeography.net/2012/11/obama-wins-election-ontwitter.html   Tumasjan, A. Sprenger, T. O., Sandner, P. G., and Welpe, I. M. 2010 Predicting elections with Tw itter: what 140 characters reveal about political sentiment. Proceedings of the 4th International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, 178-185  Williams, C., and Gulati, G. 2008. What is a social network worth Facebook and vote share in the 2008 presidential primaries. In Annual Meeting of the American Political Science Association, 1-17 
 
community structure is a useful approach of as a data analysis technique used to shed light on the structure of large-scale network data sets  V C ONCLUSION  In this study, we empirically developed the Real-time Twitter Trend Mining \(RT 2 M\ system that is designed for in real-time to 1\ crawl and store every tweet produced in Twitter 2\p track of topical trend, and 3\ visualize mention-based user networks. The major contribution of the study is making it possible to mine dynamic social trends and content-based networks generated in Twitter through adequate integration of state-of-the-art techniques. We also demonstrated the case study on 2012 Korea presidential election. Our empirical study revealed some new findings. First, based on the observation of the temporal Topic Modeling, we identified that Twitter would be a useful medium for keeping track of topical trends. In particular, we found that controversial issues could be propagated faster in Twitter than other media. Second, the mention-based user network provides a basis for identifying any nodes with high betweenness because users in Twitter tend to send/receive mentions each other, not depending on their positive/negative attitude towards a certain issue. This behavioral trait also affects to density of the user community Through additional sentiment analysis on tweets and sentreceived mentions, however, we need to properly measure connectivity among users which could vary based on personal leaning or attitude on a certain issue in Twitter In the future, we will study how to apply sentiment analysis to Twitter data to observe changes in public opinion and the formation process of a certain issue, and ultimately design the prediction model of social issues on social media. In addition by applying the concept of citation to Twitter, we may be able to discover content-based influencers and opinion leaders. We will also explore whether the community structure detected is co-related with the results of topic modeling reported in this paper. In addition, it is one of the interesting research problems to examine the social network patterns varying with the change of different terms over time that we hope to tackle in the future  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  This study was supported by National Research Foundation of Korea Grant funded by the Korean Government \(NRF-20122012S1A3A2033291  R EFERENCES  1 
                         
70 


 Woodly, D. 2007. New competencies in democratic communication blogs, agenda setting and political participation. Public Choice, 134\(12\: 109-123  Wu, F., Huberman, B. A. 2004. Finding communities in linear time: a physics approach. The European Physical Journal B - Condensed Matter and Complex Systems, 38\(2\-338  Xu, X., Yuruk, N., Feng, Z., Schweiger, T., A., J. 2007. SCAN: a structural clustering algorithm for networks. KDD '07 Proceedings of the 13th ACM SIGKDD Intern ational Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 824-833  Yan, E., Ding, Y. and Sugimoto, R. 2012. Topics in dynamic research communities: an exploratory study for the field of information retrieval Journal of Informetrics, 6\(1\: 140-153  Yoon, M., Lee, J. 2012. Antecedents of social media use, actual use, and social capital: an analysis of a mediation model. Broadcasting and Communication, 13\(2\: 5-44  Zhao, W., X., Jiang, J. et al. 2011. Comparing Twitter and traditional media using topic models. ECIR '11 Proceedings of the 33rd European conference on Advances in Information Retrieval, 338-349  
      
71 


  9  A X    S C H EM A TI C E S U M M A R Y O F M A JO R H ELI O LI B I N TER F A C ES     H ELI O LI B ES  S Y N TA C TI C  I N TER F A C ES   enum  DataType     OBJECT  DOUBLE  S TRING  TIME  VECTORIJK    Indexable R   R get int  index   public  int  size    DataArray<T extends  Indexable<T     DataIdentity getIdentity   DataType getType   MaplikeMetadata getMetadata    Table   String getName   IMaplikeMetada ta getTableMetadata   int  getNumCols   DataArray<?> getColumn int  i     TableWithTime extends  Table     int  getTimeArrayIndexForColumn int  dataColIndex    TableWithDetailedTime extends  TableWithTime     int  getMeasurementWindowColIndex int  data ColIndex   int  getExposureTimeColIndex int  dataColIndex   ITimeSystem<?> getTimeSystem     MagneticFieldData extends  TableWithDetailedTime     MagColIndices getMagColIndices   MagDatasetContentInfo getDatasetContentInfo    


  10  RE P RE S E NT AT I V E  H B S NCE C  IN T E R F A C E S   MA G N E T I C  F I E L D  D A T A   MagDatasetContentInfo extends  CoordFrameSrc     boolean  hasBTotal   boolean  hasBTotalUncertainty   boolean  hasBVector\(ICoordFrame frame   boolean  hasBVectorUncertainties\(ICoordFrame fram e   String getDataSetName    MagneticFieldData extends  TableWithDetailedTime     MagColIndices getMagColIndices   MagDatasetContentInfo getDatasetContentInfo     EN ERG ET I C  PART I C L E D AT A   PChannelInfo     String getParameterKey   String get Name   String getDescription   Set<IParticleCalibration> getCalibrations   IParticleSpecies getSpecies   IParticleChannelBounds getBounds   IFOVKey getFOVKey    ParticleInfoSrc extends  ICoordFrameSrc     int  getNumChannels   IPCh annelInfo getChannelInfo int  chnlIdx   String getDataName   ISpectralInfo getSpectralInfo    ParticleData extends  TableWithDetailedTime, ParticleInfoSrc     int  getValueColumnIndexForChannel int  channelIndex, ParticleCalibration cal   int  getU ncertColumnIndexForChannel int  channelIndex, ParticleCalibration cal  int  getParticleFlowDirectionVec torIJKIndex int  channelIndex, ICoordFrame coordFrame     EVEN T  D AT A h a s  n o  i n t e r f a c e   i t  s  j u s t  a n d   I n f o   i n t e r f a c e  a d d e d  t o  a  T a b l e W i t h T i m e  


  11   CONDUIT  I n te r fac e s   Timestamp  public  abstract  boolean  hasTimestamp  public  abstract  TSEpoch getEpoch  boolean  hasMET  public  abstract  MET getMET    PacketHeader extends  Timestamp  int  offsetBytesToCargo   void  movePositionToStartOfNextPacket\(ByteBuff er inputBuffer   int  cargoLength    TelemetryRecord extends  Timestamp   int  getNumFields   Field getField int  fieldNum   Field getField\(String fieldName      TelemetryRecordSource   int  getNumberOfRecords   TelemetryRecord getTelemetryRecord int  recordNum   Object getPacketType this is usually an instrument specific enum  value    Subpacket extends  Comparable<Subpacket>,TelemetryRecordSource   IPacketHeader getIPacketHeader       


   12 The scenario tests are designed through a process o f grouping the FM requirements into sequences. The pr ocess is performed using a requirements-to-test allocatio n matrix in which each requirement is assigned to a test or group of tests The selection of which tests form the incomp ressible test suite is performed through consultation and it eration of the core test list with the systems engineering tea m Following the allocation of all requirements to the  various tests, individual test plans are developed that inc lude a set of starting conditions and high-level outline of test and verification activities. Each test plan includes th e following information test name document number tier desig nation test objective, requirements fully or partially ver ified by the test, minimum spacecraft component set required to run the test, initial conditions for the test, required sup port, planning notes, and the high-level test outline   Figure 12 shows the activity flow for each scenario  test during the system-level test phase  Following the development of the system-level verification and te st plan individual test procedures are generated for each t est. A test procedure is a configuration managed document that describes the detailed information necessary to run  the test on the spacecraft and the list of steps taken to ex ecute the test. The test procedure is also the as-run documen t used by the test conductor or FM lead engineer to document the major milestones of the test When possible the te st procedure will be dry run on the high-fidelity simu lators to identify and correct procedural errors. The test pr ocedure is then executed on the observatory during I&T \(eventu ally the procedure is run on both spacecraft Any deviation s from the test procedure are documented within the test p rocedure as red lines \(i.e., permanent changes to the test p rocedure\ or black lines i.e changes for the current procedur e If the test fails due to test procedure errors the test p rocedure is corrected and the process is repeated However if the test fails due to an implementation error in flight hard ware flight software or autonomy a formal discrepancy is documented in the Anomaly/Problem Failure Reporting  APFR system any changes or corrections to autono my flight software, or hardware are implemented and th e test is re-run until the anomaly is resolved and the test r uns to successful completion After the completion of each  test a review of the test procedure as-run information a nd spacecraft data is performed by a member of the FM team Following the review of the test data, the FM lead engineer signs the test procedure confirming that the test w as run and the review accurately described the success or fail ure of the test  n	\r\n\n  n        n   n\r     n r\r\n\r r\n\r r\r\n\r    0/-1  23  n  4      Figure 12:  Fault Protection System-Level Test Proc ess Flow 4  CONCLUSION The RBSP spacecraft are designed to operate for mul tiple years in the extreme environment of the Earthís rad iation belts.  To facilitate this mission, a robust fault management system is integrated into the system architecture f rom the earliest stages of the design.  This fault manageme nt system was rigorously tested during I&T and the results o f this testing show that the RBSP spacecraft are protected against on-orbit fault conditions and therefore have a hig h probability of meeting the mission objectives  The  RBSP fault management design, implementation and test ap proach demonstrate that robust fault-tolerant designs are  achievable for complex systems operating in harsh environments even for systems with only limited or  selective redundancy 5  REFERENCES  1  J   S t r a t t o n  a n d  N   F o x   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P robes RBSP\ Mission Overview Proc. of the 2012 IEEE Aerospace Conf. Vol. 027 No. xxx Big Sky, Montana USA, March 2012. The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723   2  K   K i r b y  e t  a l   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P r o b e s   R B SP Spacecraft and impact of environment on observatory  design Proc. of the 2012  IEEE Aerospace Conf.,Vol  027 No. 1759 Big Sky, Montana, USA, March 2012 The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723  


WeD6 \226 Queuing Theory Visitor Center   Chair Starobinski, David Boston University On the Channel-Sensitive Delay Behavior of LIFO-Backpressure 715  Si, Wei Boston University  Starobinski, David Boston University  Transient Flow Level Models for In terference-Coupled Cellular Networks 723  326hmann, David Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fehske, Albrecht Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fettweis, Gerhard Technische Universit\344t Dresden  When do Redundant Requests Reduce Latency 731  Shah, Nihar B University of California, Berkeley  Lee, Kangwook University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  Scheduling in Cooperative Cognitive Radio Networks 739  Das, Dibakar Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Abouzeid, Alhussein A Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Codreanu, Marian University of Oulu  Batch Job Scheduling for Reducing Water Footprints in Data Center 747  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Bits through Bufferless Queues 755  Tavan, Mehrnaz Rutgers University  Yates, Roy D Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  ThA1 \226 Information-Theoretic Security Library   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois Networked Cyber-Physical Systems: Interdep endence, Resilience and Information Exchange 763  Zhu, Quanyan Princeton University  Bushnell, Linda University of Washington  On the Secure Interference Channel 770  Somekh-Baruch, Anelia Bar-Ilan University  How Many Antennas does a Cooperative Jammer Need for Achieving the Degrees of Freedom of Multiple Antenna Gaussian Channels in the Presence of an Eavesdropper 774  Nafea, Mohamed Pennsylvania State University  Yener, Aylin Pennsylvania State University  Distributed Consensus with Byzantine Adversaries n/a  Liu, Xiangyang University of Maryland  Gao, Peixin University of Maryland  Baras, John University of Maryland  


Why Cyber-Insurance Contracts Fail to Reflect Cyber-Risks 781  Schwartz, Galina University of California, Berkeley  Shetty, Nikhil Insieme Networks  Walrand, Jean University of California, Berkeley  Performance-Aware IP Address Randomi zation in Moving Target Defense n/a  Clark, Andrew University of Washington  Sun, Kun George Mason University  Poovendran, Radha University of Washington  ThA2 \226 Distributed Stor age: Theory and Practice Solarium   Chair Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois Explicit Maximally Recoverable Codes with Locality n/a  Gopalan, Parikshit Microsoft Research  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  Jenkins, Bob Microsoft Research  Yekhanin, Sergey Microsoft Research  On the Interior Points of the Storage-Repa ir Bandwidth Tradeoff of Regenerating Codes 788  Sasidharan, Birenjith Indian Institute of Science  Kumar, P. Vijay Indian Institute of Science  A Family of Locally Recoverable Codes n/a  Tamo, Itzhak University of Maryland  Barg, Alexander University of Maryland  Locality and Availability in Distributed Storage n/a  Rawat, Ankit Singh University of Texas, Austin  Papailiopoulos, Dimitris University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Vishwanath, Sriram University of Texas, Austin  Data Secrecy in Distributed Storage Systems under Exact Repair n/a  El Rouayheb, Salim Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago  Goparaju, Sreechakra Princeton University  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Calderbank, A. Robert Duke University  LRC Erasure Coding in Windows Storage: From Cloud to Desktop n/a  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  ThA3 \226 Information Theory II Butternut   Chair  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University Matroid Bounds on the Region of Entropic Vectors 796  Li, Congduan Drexel University  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University  Weber, Steven Drexel University  


Groups and Information Inequalities in 5 Variables 804  Markin, Nadya Nanyang Technological University  Thomas, Eldho Nanyang Technological University  Oggier, Fr\351d\351rique Nanyang Technological University  Superadditivity of Quantum Channel Coding Rate with Finite Blocklength Quantum Measurements 810  Chung, Hye Won Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Zheng, Lizhong Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Information Rates in the Optica l Nonlinear Phase Noise Channel 818  Dar, Ronen Tel Aviv University  Shtaif, Mark Tel Aviv University  Feder, Meir Tel Aviv University  An Outer Bound of the Capacity Re gion of Biometric Systems under Keys, Secrets, and Privacy Requirements 824  Lai, Po-Hsiang Washington University in Saint Louis  O'Sullivan, Joseph A Washington University in Saint Louis  Generalized Cut-Set Bounds for Broadcast Networks 832  Salimi, Amir Texas A&M University  Liu, Tie Texas A&M University  Cui, Shuguang Texas A&M University  ThA4 \226 Sensor Networks Pine   Chair Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis How to Sleep, Control and Transfer Data in an Energy Constrained Wireless Sensor Network 839  Venkateswaran, Vijay Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Kennedy, Irwin O Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Network Observability and Localization of the So urce of Diffusion based on a Subset of Nodes 847  Zejnilovic, Sabina Carnegie Mellon University  Gomes, Jo\343o Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  The Central Detection Officer Problem: SALS A Detector and Performance Guarantees 853  Li, Xiao University of California, Davis  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  A New Graph Model with Random Edge Values: Connectivity and Diameter 861  La, Richard J University of Maryland, College Park  Kabkab, Maya University of Maryland, College Park  


ThA5 \226 Source Coding Lower Level   Chair Cohen, Asaf Ben-Gurion University Correlated Sources with Actions 869  Sabag, Oron Ben Gurion University  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University  Cohen, Asaf Ben Gurion University  Non-Asymptotic Bounds on Fixed Leng th Source Coding for Markov Chains 875  Hayashi, Masahito Nagoya University  Watanabe, Shun University of Tokushima  Efficient Similarity Queri es via Lossy Compression 883  Ochoa, Idoia Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Results on the Optimal Memory-Assisted Univer sal Compression Performance for Mixture Sources 890  Beirami, Ahmad Georgia Institute of Technology  Sardari, Mohsen Georgia Institute of Technology  Fekri, Faramarz Georgia Institute of Technology  Interactive Function Computation with Reconstruction Constraints 896  Ebrahim Rezagah, Farideh Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Erkip, Elza Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Distortion Rate Function of Sub-Nyquist Sa mpled Gaussian Sources Corrupted by Noise 901  Kipnis, Alon Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea J Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Eldar, Yonina C Technion - Israel Institute of Technology  ThB1 \226 Dynamic Games Library   Chair Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan Joint Control of Transmission Power and Channel Switching against Adaptive Jamming 909  Wang, Qingsi University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  Characterization and Computation of Loca l Nash Equilibria in Continuous Games 917  Ratliff, Lillian J University of California, Berkeley  Burden, Samuel A University of California, Berkeley  Sastry, S. Shankar University of California, Berkeley  Multiagent Inverse Reinforcement Learni ng for Zero-Sum Stochastic Games n/a  Beling, Peter University of Virginia  Cogill, Randy University of Virginia  Lin, Xiaomin University of Virginia  A Dynamic VCG Mechanism for Random Allocation Spaces 925  Balandat, Maximilian University of California, Berkeley  Tomlin, Claire J University of California, Berkeley  


Nonstationary Resource Sharing with Imperfect Binary Feedback An Optimal Design Framework for Cost Minimization 932  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  ThB2 \226 Topics in Information Theory III Solarium   Chair Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  De Novo RNA Shotgun Sequencing: Fundamental Limits n/a  Kannan, Sreeram University of Illinois  Pachter, Lior University of California, Berkeley  Tse, David University of California, Berkeley  Queue Length as an Implicit Communication Channel 940  Park, Se Yong University of California, Berkeley  Sahai, Anant University of California, Berkeley  Polytope Codes for Large-Alphabet Channels 948  Fan, Xiaoqing Cornell University  Wagner, Aaron B Cornell University  Ahmed, Ebad LSI Corporation  Data-Driven Management of Infrastructure Networks n/a  Rajagopal, Ram Stanford University A Derivation of the Asymptotic Random-Coding Prefactor 956  Scarlett, Jonathan University of Cambridge  Martinez, Alfonso Universitat Pompeu Fabra  Guill\351n i F\340bregas, Albert ICREA and Universitat Pompeu Fabra  ThB3 \226 Discrete Event Systems Butternut   Chair  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University On Exploiting Algebraic Structure in Control of Finite State Machines 962  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University  A Bridge between Decentralized and Coordination Control 966  Komenda, Jan Czech Academy of Sciences  Masopust, Tom\341\232 Czech Academy of Sciences  A Model Checking Framework for Linear Time Invariant Switching Systems using Structural Systems Analysis 973  Ramos, Guilherme Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Pequito, S\351rgio Carnegie Mellon University and Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Aguiar, A. Pedro University of Porto  Ramos, Jaime Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Kar, Soummya Carnegie Mellon University  


Robust Supervisory Control of Ne tworked Discrete Event Systems 981  Wang, Fei Tongji University  Shu, Shaolong Tongji University  Lin, Feng Wayne State University  Probability Bounds for False Alarm Anal ysis of Fault Detection Systems 989  Hu, Bin University of Minnesota  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  ThB4 \226 Network Inference Pine   Chair Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Organizer\(s Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin Robust Structure Estimation of M aximum Causal Entropy Processes 996  Ziebart, Brian D University of Illinois, Chicago  The Squared-Error of Generalized LASSO: A Precise Analysis 1002  Oymak, Samet California Institute of Technology  Thrampoulidis, Christos California Institute of Technology  Hassibi, Babak California Institute of Technology  Localized Minimax Complexity of Stochastic Convex Optimization n/a  Zhu, Yuancheng University of Chicago  Lafferty, John University of Chicago  Non-Convex Inference via Alternatin g Minimization: Provable Guarantees n/a  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Loop Calculus and Bootstrap-Belief Propagatio n for Perfect Matchings on Arbitrary Graphs n/a  Chertkov, Michael Los Alamos National Laboratory  Gelfand, Andrew University of California, Irvine  Shin, Jinwoo Massachusetts Institute of Technology  ThB5 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems I Lower Level   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  A Rank Minimization Algorithm to Enhance Semidefinite Rel axations of Optimal Power Flow 1010  Louca, Raphael Cornell University  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  Bitar, Eilyan Cornell University  Power System Structure and Confidenti ality Preserving Transformation of Optimal Power Flow Model 102 1  Borden, Alexander R University of Wisconsin, Madison  Molzahn, Daniel K University of Michigan  Lesieutre, Bernard C University of Wisconsin, Madison  Ramanathan, Parmeswaran University of Wisconsin, Madison  


Incentive Design for Direct Load Control Programs 1029  Alizadeh, Mahnoosh University of California, Davis  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 1 n/a  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Pandzic, Hrvoje University of Washington  Qiu, Ting University of Washington  Wang, Yishen University of Washington  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 2 n/a  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Xue, Mengran University of Michigan  Almassalkhi, Mads Root3 Technologies Ltd  Felder, Jennifer University of Michigan  The Redistribution of Power Flow in Cascading Failures 1037  Lai, Chengdi California Institute of Technology  Low, Steven H California Institute of Technology  ThB6 \226 Multiuser Detecti on and Estimation Theory Visitor Center   Chair Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University Phase and Power Estimation for Per-Hop MultiUser Detection in Frequency-Hopping Systems 1045  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Royster, Thomas C MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Non-Coherent Multi-User Detection of DPSK Signals after Differential Demodulation 1052  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  The Incidence and Cross Methods for Efficient Radar Detection 1059  Fish, Alexander University of Sydney  Gurevich, Shamgar University of Wisconsin, Madison  Capacity Analysis of Uplink Multi-User SC-FDMA System with Frequency-Dependent I/Q Imbalance 1067  Ishaque, Aamir RWTH Aachen University  Sakulkar, Pranav RWTH Aachen University  Ascheid, Gerd RWTH Aachen University  Reliable Uncoded Communication in th e Underdetermined SIMO MAC with Low-Complexity Decoding 1 075  Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  


ThC1 \226 Networks, Ga mes and Algorithms III Library   Chair  Williams, Steven R University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Competitive Equilibrium in Electricity Markets wi th Heterogeneous users and Ramping Constraints n/a  Malekian, Azarakhsh Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Ozdaglar, Asu Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Wei, Ermin Massachusetts Institute of Technology  A Lyapunov Optimization Approach to Repeated Stochastic Games 1082  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  Road Traffic Networks: Optimal Transport and Incentives 1090  Mandayam, Chinmoy V Stanford University  Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  Online Stochastic Ad Allocation: Simu ltanenous and Bicriteria Approximations n/a  Mirrokni, Vahab Google Research  A Processor-Sharing Heuristic fo r Multipath Congestion Control n/a  Walton, Neil Stuart University of Amsterdam  Anselmi, Jonatha Basque Center for Applied Mathematics  D'Auria, Bernardo Universidad Carlos III de Madrid  ThC2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing I Solarium   Chair Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Asymptotic Optimality Results for Controlled Sequential Estimation 1098  Atia, George University of Central Florida  Aeron, Shuchin Tufts University  Even Symmetric Parallel Linear Determinis tic Interference Channels are Inseparable 1106  Mukherjee, Pritam University of Maryland  Tandon, Ravi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Ulukus, Sennur University of Maryland  Estimation Over the Collision Channel: Structural Results 1114  Vasconcelos, Marcos M University of Maryland  Martins, Nuno C University of Maryland  Physical Watermarking and Authenti cation in Cyber-Physical Systems n/a  Weerakkody, Sean Carnegie Mellon University  Mo, Yilin California Institute of Technology  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  


Distributed Linear Estimation of Dynamic Random Fields 1120  Das, Subhro Carnegie Mellon University  Moura, Jos\351 M.F Carnegie Mellon University  ThC3 \226 Active Learning, Search and Visual Recognition Butternut   Chair Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Co-Chair Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Working Title: Learning to Recognize Everything n/a  Berg, Alexander C University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill  Visual Attributes for Enhanced Human-Machine Communication 1126  Parikh, Devi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Active Learning of Linear Separators n/a  Balcan, Maria Florina Georgia Institute of Technology  Discriminative Value of Information for Structured Prediction n/a  Taskar, Ben University of Washington  Extrinsic Jensen\226Shannon Divergence and Noisy Bayesian Active Learnin\g 1128  Naghshvar, Mohammad University of California, San Diego  Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Chaudhuri, Kamalika University of California, San Diego  Universal Random Number Generators for Finite Memory Sources n/a  Seroussi, Gadiel Universidad de la Rep\372blica, Uruguay  Weinberger, Marcelo J Center for Science of Information  ThC4 \226 Information Theory III Pine   Chair Avestimehr, Salman Cornell University Approximate Capacity of the Two-User MI SO Broadcast Channel with Delayed CSIT 1136  Vahid, Alireza Cornell University  Maddah-ali, Mohammad Ali Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  K-User Symmetric MIMO Distributed Full-D uplex Network via Wireless Side-Channels 1144  Bai, Jingwen Rice University  Dick, Chris Xilinx, Inc  Sabharwal, Ashutosh Rice University  Degrees of Freedom Region for MIMO Interferen ce Channel with Limite d Receiver Cooperation 1152  Ashraphijuo, Mehdi Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  


Degrees of Freedom of the MIMO Rank-Def icient Interference Channel with Feedback 1159  Chae, Sung Ho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Suh, Changho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Chung, Sae-Young Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  On the Optimality of Trea ting Interference as Noise 1166  Geng, Chunhua University of California, Irvine  Naderializadeh, Navid Cornell University  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  Jafar, Syed A University of California, Irvine  Asymmetric Compute-and-Forward 1174  Ntranos, Vasilis University of Southern California  Cadambe, Viveck R Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Nazer, Bobak Boston University  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  ThC5 \226 Pricing and Contractive Mechanisms for Wireless Data Services Lower Level   Chair Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Smart Data Pricing for the Internet: Agenda & Research Directions 1182  Sen, Soumya University of Minnesota  Market Structures for Wirele ss Service with Shared Spectrum 1188  Berry, Randall Northwestern University  Honig, Michael Northwestern University  Subramanian, Vijay Northwestern University  Nguyen, Thanh Northwestern University  Vohra, Rakesh Northwestern University  Fostering Wireless Spectrum Sharing via Subsidization 1192  Yuksel, Murat University of Nevada, Reno  Quint, Thomas University of Nevada, Reno  Guvenc, Ismail Florida International University  Saad, Walid University of Miami  Kapucu, Naim University of Central Florida  Stable Real-Time Pricing and Sc heduling for Serving Opportunistic users with Deferrable Loads 1200  Dalkilic, Ozgur Ohio State University  Eryilmaz, Atilla Ohio State University  Lin, Xiaojun Purdue University  Implementing Sponsored Conten t in Wireless Data Networks 1208  Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  


ThC6 \226 Deletion Codes: Bounds and Applications Visitor Center   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dolecek, Lara University of Califo rnia, Los Angeles  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois A Practical Framework for Efficient File Synchronization 1213  Bitouz\351, Nicolas University of California, Los Angeles  Sala, Frederic University of California, Los Angeles  Tabatabaei Yazdi, S.M. Sadegh University of California, Los Angeles  Dolecek, Lara University of California, Los Angeles  An Improvement of the Deletion Channel Capacity Upper Bound 1221  Rahmati, Mojtaba Arizona State University  Duman, Tolga M Arizona State University and Bilkent University  On the Number of Subsequences Obtained via the Deletion Channel n/a  Yuvalal, Liron The Open University of Israel  Langberg, Michael State University of New York, Buffalo Efficient Interactive Algorithms for F ile Synchronization under General Edits 1226  Venkataramanan, Ramji University of Cambridge  Narasimha Swamy, Vasuki University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  ThD1 \226 Sparse Data Analysis Library   Chair Studer, Christoph Rice University Recovering Sparse Low-Rank Bloc ks in Tandem Mass Spectrometry n/a  Studer, Christoph Rice University  Pope, Graeme ETH Zurich  Navarro, Pedro Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz  Baraniuk, Richard Rice University  GROTESQUE: Noisy Group Testing \(Quick and Efficient 1234  Cai, Sheng The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Jahangoshahi, Mohammad Sharif University of Technology  Bakshi, Mayank Institute of Network Coding  Jaggi, Sidharth The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Compressed Sensing of Streaming Data 1242  Freris, Nikolaos M 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326\347al, Orhan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  A Fast Hadamard Transform for Signals with Sub-Linear Sparsity 1250  Scheibler, Robin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Haghighatshoar, Saeid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  


Sample-Optimal Average-Case Sparse Fo urier Transform in Two Dimensions 1258  Ghazi, Badih Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Hassanieh, Haitham Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Indyk, Piotr Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Katabi, Dina Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Price, Eric Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Shi, Lixin Massachusetts Institute of Technology Guarantees of Total Variation Mi nimization for Signal Recovery 1266  Cai, Jian-Feng University of Iowa  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  ThD2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing II Solarium   Chair Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Adaptive Stochastic Convex Optimization Over Networks 1272  Towfic, Zaid J University of California, Los Angeles  Sayed, Ali H University of California, Los Angeles  A Routing Problem in a Simple Queueing Syst em with Non-Classical Information Structure 1278  Ouyang, Yi University of Michigan  Teneketzis, Demosthenis University of Michigan  On the Necessary Conditions for Distributed Observability n/a  Doostmohammadian, Mohammadreza Tufts University  Khan, Usman A Tufts University  Sequential Supervised Learning n/a  Wang, Joseph Boston University  Trapeznikov, Kirill Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Fusion Center Feedback for Quasi-Decentr alized Estimation in Sensor Networks 1285  Michelusi, Nicol\362 University of Southern California  Mitra, Urbashi University of Southern California  ThD3 \226 Information Theory IV Butternut   Chair Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Inst. of Tech, Madras The Gaussian Two-Way Diamond Channel 1292  V, Prathyusha Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Thangaraj, Andrew Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Capacity to within a Constant Gap fo r a Class of Interference Relay Channels 1300  Bassi, Germ\341n Sup\351lec  Piantanida, Pablo Sup\351lec  Yang, Sheng Sup\351lec  


The State-Dependent Broadcast Channel with Cooperation 1307  Dikstein, Lior Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Steinberg, Yossef Technion - Israel Institute of Technology An Analysis of the Joint Compute-and-Forward Decoder for the Binary-Input Two-Way Relay Channel 1314  Hern, Brett Texas A&M University  Narayanan, Krishna Texas A&M University  The Generalized Degrees of Freedom of the Int erference Relay Channel with Strong Interference 1321  Gherekhloo, Soheyl Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Chaaban, Anas Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Sezgin, Aydin Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Optimal Jamming Over Additive No ise: Vector Source-Channel Case 1329  Akyol, Emrah University of California, Santa Barbara  Rose, Kenneth University of California, Santa Barbara  ThD4 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems II Pine   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Distributed Stopping in Average Consensus via Event-Triggered Strategies 1336  Manitara, Nicolaos University of Cyprus  Hadjicostis, Christoforos N University of Cyprus  Stochastic Models and Control fo r Electrical Power Line Temperature 1344  Bienstock, Daniel Columbia University  Blanchet, Jose Columbia University  Li, Juan Columbia University  Applicability of Topology Control Algorit hms \(TCA\e Power System 1349  Goldis, Evgeniy A Boston University  Li, Xiaoguang Boston University  Caramanis, Michael C Boston University  Keshavamurthy, Bhavana PJM  Patel, Mahendra PJM  Rudkevich, Aleksandr M Newton Energy Group Ruiz, Pablo A  Charles River Associates Retail Pricing for Stochastic Demand with Unknown Parameters An Online Machine Learning Approach 1353  Jia, Liyan Cornell University  Zhao, Qing University of California, Davis  Tong, Lang Cornell University  Virtual Oscillator Control for Voltage Source Inverters 1359  Dhople, Sairaj V University of Minnesota  Johnson, Brian B National Renewable Energy Laboratory  Hamadeh, Abdullah O Rutgers University  


ThD5 \226 Networks, Gam es and Algorithms IV Lower Level   Chair Lu, Yi University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Contagion and Observability in Security Domains 1364  Bachrach, Yoram Microsoft Research Cambridge Draief, Moez Imperial College  Goyal, Sanjeev University of Cambridge  Targeted Matrix Completion n a  Ruchansky, Natali Boston University  Crovella, Mark Boston University  Terzi, Evimaria Boston University  Random Matrix Theory Approach to Spectral Clustering n/a  Lelarge, Marc INRIA and \311cole Normale Sup\351rieure Optimal Distributed Scheduling in Wirele ss Networks under SINR Interference Model 1372  Chaporkar, P Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai  Proutiere, A KTH Royal Institute of Technology  Load Balancing with Deadlines and Graph Constraints n/a  Moharir, Sharayu Arun University of Texas, Austin  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Shakkottai, Sanjay University of Texas, Austin  Curbing Delays in Datacenters Need Time to Save Time n/a  Alizadeh Attar, Mohammadreza Insieme Networks  Katti, Sachin Stanford University Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  ThD6 \226 Topics in Cryptography Vistior Center   Chair Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duursma, Iwan University of Illinois  Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois How to Encrypt Software  n/a  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles  On the Cost of Information-Theoretic Cryptography n/a  Ishai, Yuval Technion - Israel Institute of Technology From Unprovability to Environmentally Friendly Protocols n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Lin, Huijia Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Boston University  Pass, Rafael Cornell University  Cryptography, Causality, and Coding n/a  Smith, Adam Pennsylvania State University  


Obfuscation for Evasive Functions n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Bitansky, Nir Tel Aviv University  Barak, Boaz Microsoft Research  Kalai, Yael Microsoft Research  Paneth, Boaz Microsoft Research  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles FrPP - Plenary Talk:  C odes for the Storage Cloud Library   Chair Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois Codes for the Storage Cloud n a  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  FrA1 \226 Wireless Communications II   Chair Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University Small Cell Networks: Speed based Power Allocation 1380  Kavitha, Veeraruna Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Capdevielle, Veronique Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Gupta, Manu K Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Distributed Power Control in Femto Ce lls using Bayesian Density Tracking 1388  Hanif, Ahmed Farhan Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Tembine, Hamidou Sup\351lec  Assaad, Mohamad Sup\351lec  Zeghlache, Djamal Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Renewable Energy Scheduling for Fading Ch annels with Maximum Power Constraint 1394  Wang, Zhe Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  Analysis and Design of Spectrum Sh aring in Cognitive Femtocell Networks 1401  Zhou, Xiangwei Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Al-Hraishawi, Hayder Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Jia, Yupeng National Instruments  Channel-Adaptive Spectrum Detection and Sensin g Strategy for Cognitive Radio Ad Hoc Networks 1408  Lu, Yuan North Carolina State University  Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University  Quantized Auction Schemes for Secondary Spectrum Markets 1415  Palguna, Deepan Purdue University  Love,  David J Purdue University  Pollak, Ilya Purdue University  Performance Analysis of Coexisting Secondary users in Heterogeneous Cognitive Radio Network 1422  Li, Xiaohua State University of New York, Binghamton  Xiong, Chengyu State University of New York, Binghamton  


FrA2 \226 Statistical Signal Processing Solarium   Chair  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University Nearly Optimal Sample Size in Hypothesis Testing for High-Dim ensional Regression 1427  Javanmard, Adel Stanford University  Montanari, Andrea Stanford University  Distributed Online Big Data Classifi cation using Context Information 1435  Tekin, Cem University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Compressed Hypothesis Testing: To Mix or Not to Mix 1443  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  Lai, Lifeng Worcester Polytechnic Institute  Sparse Signal Recovery under Poisson Statistics 1450  Motamedvaziri, Delaram Boston University  Rohban, Mohammad H Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Efficient Probabilistic Group Testing based on Traitor Tracing 1458  Laarhoven, Thijs Eindhoven University of Technology  Computational and Statistical Tradeoffs via Convex Relaxation n/a  Chandrasekaran, Venkat California Institute of Technology  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Time-Variant Regularization in Affine Projection Algorithms 1466  Ba, Amadou IBM Research  McKenna, Sean IBM Research  Cloud K-SVD: Computing Data-Adaptive Representations in the Cloud 1474  Raja, Haroon Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  FrA3 \226 Information Aggregation Over Social Networks Butternut   Chair Hassanzadeh, Farzad University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology The Maximum Likelihood Approach to Voting on Social Networks 1482  Conitzer, Vincent Duke University  Building Consensus via Iterative Voting n/a  Farnoud \(Hassanzadeh California Institute of Technology  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology  Touri, Behrouz Georgia Institute of Technology Bruck, Jehoshua California Institute of Technology  CP-Nets with Indifference  1488  Allen, Thomas E University of Kentucky  


Computing Parametric Rankin g Models via Rank-Breaking n/a  Azari Soufiani, Hossein Harvard University  Parkes, David Harvard University  Xia, Lirong Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  On the Dynamics of Influence Networks via Reflected Appraisal n/a  Bullo, Francesco University of California, Santa Barbara Social Group Utility Maximization Game with Applications in Mobile Social Networks 1496  Gong, Xiaowen Arizona State University  Chen, Xu Arizona State University  Zhang, Junshan Arizona State University  Credibility Optimization and Power Co ntrol for Secure Mobile Crowdsourcing 1501  Ahmed, Kishwar Florida International University  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Turnewitsch, Vance Marietta College  Vasilakos, Athanasios V National Technical University of Athens  Group Learning and Opinion Diffusion in a Broadcast Network 1509  Liu, Yang University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  FrA4 \226 Network Coding Pine   Chair Dimakis, Alex University of Southern California Secure Network Coding with Erasures and Feedback 1517  Czap, L\341szl\363 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Prabhakaran, Vinod M Tata Institute of Fundamental Research  Diggavi, Suhas University of California, Los Angeles  Index Coding Problem with Side Information Repositories 1525  Shanmugam, Karthikeyan University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alexandros G University of Texas, Austin  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  Complexity and Rate-Distortion Tradeoff via Successive Refinement 1531  No, Albert Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  On a Capacity Equivalence Between Mult iple Multicast and Multiple Unicast 1537  Wong, M.F California Institute of Technology  Langberg, M State University of New York, Buffalo Effros, M California Institute of Technology  On the Capacity of Sum-Networks 1545  Rai, Brijesh Kumar Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  Das, Niladri Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  


Duality Codes and the Integral ity Gap Bound for Index Coding 1553  Yu, Hao University of Southern California  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  On the Structure of Approximately Optimal Schedules for Half-Duplex Diamond Networks 1561  Brahma, Siddhartha 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326zg\374r, Ayfer Stanford University  FrA5 \226 Topology and Control Lower Level   Chair Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Co-Chair Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois Double Bracket Flows, Toda Flows and Rigid Body Toda 1567  Bloch, Anthony M University of Michigan  Gay-Balmaz, Fran\347ois 311cole Normale Sup\351rieure  Ratiu, Tudor S 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Topological Obstructions to Dist ributed Feedback Stabilization 1573  Mansouri, Abdol-Reza Queen's University  Contact Geometry of Optimal Control Problems n/a  Ohsawa, Tomoki University of Michigan, Dearborn  Equivariant Morse Theory for Formation Control 1576  Helmke, Uwe University of W\374rzburg  Anderson, Brian D.O Australian National University  Towards Discrete Geometric Boundary Co ntrol of Lagrangian Field Theories n/a  Leok, Melvin University of California, San Diego  Structure and Geometry of Minimum-Tim e Trajectories for Planar Rigid Bodies 1584  Futuna, Andrei A Dartmouth College  Wang, Weifu Dartmouth College  Lyu, Yu-Han Dartmouth College  Balkcom, Devin Dartmouth College  Real and Apparent Synchronization n/a  Brockett, Roger Harvard University  Rauch and Bonnet-Myers Type Comparison Theorems in Sub-Riemannian Geometry n/a  Zelenko, Igor Texas A&M University  


FrA6 \226 Privacy and Big Data Visitor Center   Chair Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duchi, John University of California, Berkeley  Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates 1592  Duchi, John C University of California, Berkeley  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Wainwright, Martin J University of California, Berkeley  Differential Privacy, Equilibrium, and Efficient Allocation of Resources 1593  Roth, Aaron University of Pennsylvania  A Bayesian Method for Matching Tw o Similar Graphs without Seeds 1598  Pedarsani, Pedram 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Figueiredo, Daniel R Federal University of Rio de Janeiro  Grossglauser, Matthias 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Privacy as a Coordination Game 1608  Ghosh, Arpita Cornell University  Ligett, Katrina California Institute of Technology  De-Anonymizing Private Data by Matching Statistics 1616  Unnikrishnan, Jayakrishnan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Movahedi Naini, Farid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Robust Subspace Iteration and Privacy-Preserving Spectral Analysis 1624  Hardt, Moritz IBM Research Almaden  Privacy-Utility Tradeoff und er Statistical Uncertainty 1627  Makhdoumi, Ali Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Fawaz, Nadia Technicolor   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a ìkey, valueî list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of ìkey, valueî pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


