Scalable and Trustworthy Cross-Enterpri se WfMSs by Cloud Collaboration 
Abstract KeywordsCloud, Multitenancy, WfMS 
Gwan-Hwan Hwang, Yi-Chan Kao, and Yu-Cheng Hsiao Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering National Taiwan Normal University Taipei, Taiwan ghhwang@csie.ntnu.edu.tw 
 
I I NTRODUCTION Workflow management systems \(WfMSs\ are software systems that support coordination and cooperation among members of an organization whilst they perform complex business tasks [1  2   3   B u sin ess t ask s a r e m odel e d a s  that are automated by the WfMS. The workflow model \(also referred to as the is the computerized representation of the business process that defines the starting and stopping conditions of the process, the activities in the process, and control and data flows among these activities. An is a logic step within a workflow. The activities in a process are usually organized into a directed graph that defines the order of their execution, where nodes and edges in the graph represent activities and control flow, respectively. A represents a state of execution of a workflow process definition by the WfMS, and is usually controlled by the  A popular way to construct WfMSs in the cloud is to deploy workflow engines in the cloud computing infrastructure; examples of this approach include RunMyProcess [4  V isu al Work f l ow  5  A n eka  6   A zur e  Services Platform [7  Goog l e  A p p En g i n e   8   focus on executing workflow processes within a single organization at one location in a single  The corresponding author is Gwan-Hwan Hwang \(e-mail ghhwang@csie.ntnu.edu.tw workflow engine \(see Figure 1A A workflow process is executed by a single workflow engine that communicates with all of the participants in the activity To fit with the rapidly changing business environment and with the highly varying load of e-business applications WfMSs should be scalable and should provide the required flexibility to cope with peaks in the system load and distributed environment. Consider the working model of the shown in Figure 1B 9  1 0  11   1 2    T h e w o rk f l ow  pr o c ess h a s six a ctiv i tie s numbered A1 A6\ that are designed to be executed in three workflow engines deployed at three locations. Establishing multiple workflow engines provides the abilities to \(1 balance the load among the workflow engines as the number of users increases [13  and  2   re du ce th e c o m m un icati on  time between the participants in the activity and the workflow engines since the latter are close to the user \(in terms of the network transmission 
002 
workflow processes workflow process definition activity workflow process instance workflow engine Centralized WfMSs engine-based distributed WfMS 
 
Establishing scalable and cross-enterprise workflow management systems \(WfMSs\ in the cloud requires the adaptation and extension of existing concepts for process management. This paper proposes a scalable and crossenterprise WfMS with a multitenancy architecture. Especially it can activate enactment of workflow processes by cloud collaboration. We do not employ the traditional engine-based WfMSs. The key idea is to have the workflow process instance to be self-protected and does not need a workflow engine to secure the data therein. Thus the process instance discovery and activity execution can be fully independently and distributed. As a result, we can employ the data storage system BigTable, to store the process instances, which may form a big data. The applying of element-wise encryption and chained digital signature makes it satisfy major security requirements of authentication, confidentiality, data integrity, and nonrepudiation 
 
A1 A2 A3 A6 A4 A5 
Workflow engine 2 Workflow engine 3 Workflow engine 1 
Start of workflow End of workflow Activity Flow control edge Participant 
Workflow engine 
Public network Public network 
Public network 
Process instance migration User communication 
A1 A2 A3 A6 A4 A5 A B 
Workflow engine 
that controls the execution of cross-enterprise workflow processes. The participants of activities in a cross-enterprise workflow process belong to different companies or organizations. These participants usually connect to the workflow engines in their own companies or organizations due to authentication requirements. The engine-based distributed WfMS suffers 
cross-enterprise WfMS 
Figure 1. Working models of the centralized WfMS and the ordinary engine-based distributed WfMS The engine-based distributed WfMS can be used to build up the 
2013 IEEE International Congress on Big Data 978-0-7695-5006-0/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/BigData.Congress.2013.19 70 


nonrepudiation requirement big data 1 
from serious security problems because the workflow process instances might be transmitted on a public network such as the Internet. Therefore, the execution results of activities might be eavesdropped or malicious users might intercept the process instances and then alter their contents before passing them on to the next workflow engine Although the above two problems can easily be solved by applying common methods used to secure electronic transactions with secure sockets, such as the SSL \(Secure Sockets Layer\ protocol [1 suc h m e t h o d s st i l l  c a nnot  guarantee the That is, it is difficult for the system to pr event a participant from being able to deny what he/she had done in an activity One of the features of the engine-based WfMSs \(either centralized or distributed\that the workflow engines must be managed by administrators in this model, since the workflow process instances are usually stored in them or database servers close to them [4   5    6   7   8   T h e  u s er  communicates with the administrated workflow engines to participate in the execution of the WfMS via the network The security of a process instan ce is assured by the server rather than by the process instance itself. The workflow engines in cross-enterprise WfMSs may be administrated by different companies or organizations in a distributed network environment, and the overall se curity is insufficient if the security mechanism is broken in any one of the servers that may access or store the process instance. The question then arises about how to design a trust model for workflow engines in cross-enterprise \(or cross-organization\fMSs Multitenancy refers to a principle in software architecture where a single instance of the software runs on a server serving multiple client organizations \(tenants\15 Th e shared infrastructure change s the underlying economics of enterprise applications, letting the vendor maintain a single application instance for th ousands of customers In a multitenancy cloud environment multiple vendors, using the same infrastructure, can access and share the same resource The multitenancy enables econ omic pay-as-you-go services in nature [1   T h er e a r e  a n u m ber of  dif f er ent m ethods f o r  achieving multitenancy including virtualization or database sharing. Virtualization is simply another technology for achieving multitenancy, especial ly for infrastructure as a service \(IaaS\ultiple virtual machines in a single physical machine for serving multiple tenancies can be treated as the simplest applying of multitenancy. Some cloud systems can support more advanced multiten ancy architectures such as sharing of a database or even sharing of tables in a database 17   1 8   W ith a m u ltiten ant a r chit ec tu re a s o f tw are application is designed to virtually partition its data and configuration, and each client organization works with a customized virtual application instance. One of the major reasons to adopt a multitenancy architecture for cloud applications is to achieve high cost efficiencies and can deliver low costs True cloud services all use some mode of multitenancy which supports th e ability for multiple client organizations to share the same applications, data, and/or compute resources. The multitenancy architecture fits the data sharing requirement for cross-enterprise WfMSs in which a single process instance may be accessed by different organizations. However, developing a multitenancy WfMS is not only for deliver low costs but also for the cross-enterprise requirement. Since people from different organizations may need to communicate or exchange data to participant in a single workflow process in a cross-enterprise WfMS, a cross-enterprise WfMS requires more than just multitenancy Cloud collaboration for documents is a newly emerging way of sharing and co-authoring documents through the use of cloud computing, whereby documents or objects are uploaded to a central cloud, where they can then be accessed by others, e.g. Google document and Google Calendar  [19  20   In  addi ti on t o th e cha r acteristics of multitenancy, a participant can execute its own task without the interference by other participant and can also share data with other participant when needs. The ex ecution of a cross-enterprise workflow process requires participants from different organization to work together and share data according to the workflow definition. It motivates us to study how to design a cross-enterprise WfMS which can provide workflow enactment service by cloud collaboration Applying the engine-based WfMS in a multitenancy cloud computing environment increases the security problems because the workflow engines are usually installed on servers that are not administrated by the company or organization that uses them. The issues of trusted execution in untrusted cloud infrastructure received much attention when cloud computing provided concrete use cases [21 F o r instance, there are a lot of solutions for untrusted server in the cloud storage including replication [22   2 3    2 4    2 5    detection of violation   2 7  a n d  a u d i t i ng 28   29 F o r constructing WfMSs in untrusted cloud infrastructure, in addition to the nonrepudiation requirement, the client organization may need the system to support secured process instance migration and replica tion in which it can control the migration and replication of process instances on its own. In this situation, the process instance cannot be bound to a specific workflow engine. The security requirements of authentication, confidentiality, data integrity, and nonrepudiation should still be maintained after process instance migration and replication In this paper we propose a secured, scalable, and multitenancy WfMS in which it supports workflow enactment by cloud collaboration First, we have to solve these security problems in engine-based WfMSs for supporting cross-enterprise WfMSs. Second, we assume that it is possible that participants of a single workflow process come from any organizations and these participants are decided dynamically during the life time of the workflow process. Therefore, we have to house multiple tenants in the same database. The execution of a workflow process is actually a kind of cloud collaboration. Third, the large number of process instances stored in the system could form a as the system should serve a huge number of client organizations We invented an architecture that we have called the Document Routing Architecture for WfMS \(DRA4WfMS 1 Big data is a collection of data sets so large and complex that it becomes difficult to process using on-hand database management tools [30   
71 


AEA TFC Server TFC Server X it A 1 X 
A 0 X 
1 A 2 
X 
002 
1 
A 1 X it A 2 
003 003\003 003\003 
The secured initial document 
AEA 
31    T h e DRA 4 W f M S is c al led a  do cum ent r ou tin e sy stem  because the execution of a workflow process can be fulfilled by routing secured process instances among activities participants. It is not only a distributed WfMS but also a totally WfMS the activity execution is not controlled by any workflow en gine, instead being carried out by a software agent in the local computer of the participant The software agent can be loc ated anywhere or be any type of computer device. We employ the element-wise encryption that is commonly used in XML security [32   3 3   an d  propose a way to chain embedded digital signatures for the routed documents. This method enables a DRA4WfMS document to be secured without requiring an access-control server This paper is organized as follows. In Section II we present the basic and advanced operational model of the DRA4WfMS. The way to apply the DRA4WfMS in the cloud computing environment is presented in Section III The way which we apply the big table in DRA4WfMS is presented in Section IV. Section V discusses how to construct trustworthy DRA4WfMS in untrusted cloud infrastructures. Experimental results are given in Section VI Related work and conclusions are drawn in Sections VII and VIII, respectively II O PERATIONAL M ODEL OF DRA4WFMS The DRA4WfMS is a document-routing-based and an engine-less WfMS. Before we explain how the DRA4WfMS can be constructed by applying the big table, we first introduce why the execution of a workflow process can be fulfilled by routing secured process instances among activities participants. The DRA4WfMS documents will be routed to participants of activities in different locations During the routing, the execution result of each activity will be appended to it. Thus, a DRA4WfMS document contains static and dynamic information within it  DRA4WfMS document is sent to the participant of the activity who employs a software tool called the AEA\ to activate the execution of activities First, the AEA parses and verifies all the embedded digital signatures therein so as to ensure that the workflow definition in is legal and all the stored execution results of previously executed activities are valid. Second, the AEA checks if the participant is the correct executor of this activity. Third, the AEA looks at the requests and responses of this activity and shows them to the participant in a graphical user interface in which the participant can perform the execution of this activity. Fourth, the AEA appends the execution result \(i.e., response\of the participant to the resulting document is Fifth, the AEA embeds a digital signature that signs the execution result of the participant and some of the digital signatures embedded in previous activities \(the is The encrypted execution result and the digital signature consists of the CER\ of activity Finally the AEA checks the control flow information defined in the workflow definition and forwards to the participant \(or AEA\ of the next activity \(or activities which contains a CER embedded by AEA, is first sent to a 
Figure 2. The basic operational model of DRA4WfMS The static information is actually the initial document. It contains the workflow definition as well as a digital signature embedded by the workflow designer. This digital signature signs the workflow definition in the initial document, which is necessary for the participants of the activities to verify whether it is a legal workflow process Actually, different portions in the workflow process instance may need to be encrypted using different keys since each activity may be executed by different participants. It requires so-called element-wise encryption [3  3 3   A n o b v i ou s  way to encrypt an XML documen t is to employ existing cryptography to encrypt an XML document as a whole. The receiver of an encrypted XML document then decrypts it with the appropriate key and algorithm. However, some researchers considered encrypting a whole XML document without dividing it up as cumbersome, and consequently proposed element-wise encryption that the encryption is held at the element level The execution result of each activity is part of the dynamic information in a DRA4WfMS document. To fulfill security requirements of authentication, confidentiality, data integrity, and nonrepudiation, execution results should be element-wisely encrypted and di gital signatures which sign these execution results are embedded.  When the monitoring of workflow processes is necessary, some timestamps should also be embedded in the DRA4WfMS document. All the data items which are appended or embedded into the DRA4WfMS document during the execution of the workflow process are considered as dynamic information. In the follows, we first present the basic operation model and then the advanced operational model of DRA4WfMS We show the basic operational model of DRA4WfMS as shown in Figure 2. Before the execution of an activity Figure 3. The advanced operational model of DRA4WfMS The advanced operational model shown in Figure 3 is actually an improvement of that in Figure 2. The DRA4WfMS document processed by an AEA 
A A 3 
A 2 X A 3 
002 
A 1 
002 
X 
engine-less activity execution agent resulting document characteristic execution result 
 
A 2 
AEA AEA Start 
AEA Start 
A 
 Digital signature embedded by a workflow participant 
 
Time stamp embedded by the timestamp server 
002 002 
Workflow definition Digital signature embedded by the workflow designer Execution result of the activity 
A 002 X 003 004 A 002 X 003 004 X 003 004 X 003 004 X 003 004 X 003 004 A 002 X 003 004  X 003 005 002\006 
72 


AEA AEA 
X 
A 1 A 2 1 2 3 4 5 DRA4WfMS documents pool DRA4WfMS Cloud system Portal servers 
     
004 004 004 004 005 004 005 004 
X 003 005 002\006 X 003 005 002\006 X 003 007 010\010 X 003 004 010\010 X 003 004\011\012 002\006 X 003 004\011\012 002\006 X 003 004\011\012 010\010 
6 
A 0 X A 1 X A 2 X A 1 X it A 1 X it A 2 
timestamp and flow control server \(TFC server\, which is analogous to a notary public and has legal authority to witness the finish time of the activity. Note that a TFC server is not a workflow engine as it only embeds timestamps to DRA4WfMS documents and helps with their forwarding When the TFC server receives it first checks the digital signatures, embeds a timestamp of the time when the TFC server processed this document, and embeds a digital signature which chains the timestamp to  In DRA4WfMS, the confidentiality is maintained by the element-wise encryption which is specified in the secured initial document The execution result embedded in a CER must be signed. Illegal alteration of elements in a DRA4WfMS document will cause errors when we verify digital signatures which sign them. Thus, we can achieve the requirement of integrity. A DRA4WfMS document contains a lot of CERs. Each CER has its own  A nonreputiation scope of is consisted of a set of CERs which are CERs chained by the digital signature within If a CER is with a nonreputiation scope then the participant which generated the CER cannot deny having received a DRA4WfMS document containing CERs in and accordingly generates  and that server checks what activities are going to be executed by the user. Since the workflow process instances are stored as DRA4WfMS documents, the portal server just simply sends a copy of the DRA4WfMS document to the participant. The participant employs an AEA to execute the activity and generate a DRA4WfMS document by embedding a CER, and then sends it back to the portal server When an AEA sends the resulting document the portal server, the portal server verifies it and embeds a timestamp into the resulting document and stores in the DRA4WfMS documents pool. By checking this document, the DRA4WfMS cloud system can inform the subsequent participant\(s\hat s/he\(they\ is\(are\ the participant\(s\ of the next activity To start a workflow process, the participant has to download a secured initial DRA4WfMS document from the DRA4WfMS cloud system. The secured initial DRA4WfMS documents can be prepared by the system or uploaded to the system by the user. The DRA4WfMS cloud system should provide interfaces for users to search and manage DRA4WfMS documents An AEA connects to one of the portal servers in the DRA4WfMS cloud system. The portal server authenticates the ID of the user and then performs the following operations The user can obtain a list of links of DRA4WfMS documents where s/he is one of the participants of the subsequent activities. A very similar procedure is used to obtain the TO-DO list in a WfMS According to the search result, the user can retrieve a DRA4WfMS document and then execute the activity in an AEA The resulting DRA4WfMS document produced by an AEA should be stored in the pool of DRA4WfMS documents After a resulting DRA4WfMS document is stored, the portal server should inform the participants of the next activities The user can display information about the activity status of a workflow process IV A PPLYING B IG T ABLE TO C ONSTRUCT DRA4W F MS D OCUMENTS P OOL Bigtable is a distributed storage system for managing structured data that is designed to scale to a very large size petabytes of data across thousands of commodity servers 34  I t is on e of th e solu ti on s t o st o r e stru ctur e d big  dat a in a  table-like architecture. We can activate MapReduce computation for efficient searching in it. The scalability nature of it makes it suitable for multitenancy systems. We employed the Apache Hadoop o i m p l e m e n t t h e poo l o f DRA4WfMS documents which was constructed by the HBase database. HBase is an op en-source implementation of the BigTable architecture and a distributed column-oriented database built on top of HDFS \(the distributed file system of Hadoop\It is the optimal Hadoop application to use when real-time read/write random accesses to very large datasets are required. A DRA4WfMS document is stored as a cell in a row of an HBase table 
Figure 4. Applying the DRA4WfMS in the cloud computing environment III A PPLYING THE DRA4W F MS IN THE C LOUD C OMPUTING E NVIRONMENT Figure 4 shows how to apply the DRA4WfMS in the cloud computing environment using the advanced operational model presented in Section II. A user connects to one of the portal servers to access the 
Search DRA4WfMS documents Retrieve a DRA4WfMS document Store a DRA4WfMS document Notify the subsequent participants Perform workflow monitoring or statistical analyses 
nonreputiation scope DRA4WfMS cloud system 
 
002 002 002 002 
73 


Row DraDoc:XML Activity NextActivities Activity UpdateTime Figure 5 Schema of the table in DRA4WfMS documents pool Row A ctivity:Notification tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_A_i START \(i=0\ Finished[D_\(i 1 tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_B1_i Finished[A_\(i tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_B2_i Finished[A_\(i tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_C_i Finished[B1_\(i  F i n i s h e d  B 2_ i   tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_D_i Finished[C_\(i 
column family qualifier 
    DraDoc  Row               DraDoc    A_0 \(A_Agency A_0 A_Agency A 0 A_Agency A_0   _0  _0    _0  _Agency  _Agency  _0        _0  _0                   
Start of workflow End of workflow Activity Connection edge Condition TFC Server A B1 B2 C D Accept Attachment is insufficient 
IV.1 T ABLE S CHEMA A Bigtable is a sparse, distributed, persistent multidimensional sorted map. The map is indexed by a row key, column key, and a timestamp; each value in the map is an uninterpreted array of bytes. A column key is named using the following syntax Figure 5 shows the table schema for a DRA4WfMS document pool s/he sends a DRA4WfMS to a portal server. The portal server creates a new row to store which is stored in XML The is the row key which is consisted of Company name  Workflow ID  Process ID  Activity ID and Index 2 e.g tw.edu.ntnu_ WF3456_P1029890_A1_0001  Activity: UpdateTime stores the timestamp which shows when the upload is completed. Although this timestamp is also embedded in the DRA4WfMS document stored in XML we store it in a separate cell for efficient lookup. The portal server should derive the subsequent activity/activities and the corresponding participants and store it in Activity:NextActivities  Figure 7 shows the rows which were created when the workflow process shown in Figure 6 was executed in the first row means that the subsequent activity and its participant is and respectively. Note that is the ID of an activity and is the index of it could be an ID of a participant or a role. It is obvious that the form allows multiple participants for a single activity, e.g John, Mary, TA_Agency   2 An activity can be executed multiple times as a workflow may contain loop. This is the index number of the execution and starts from one A and B1 are completed for the workflow process shown in Figure 6. When activity B1 is finished, it creates the third row and derives the subsequent activity and its participant is C and C respectively However C should not be informed to execute C because there is an and-join of activities B_1 and B_2 before C It means that activity C can be activated only if both activities B_1 and B_2 are finished. We suggest to construct a notification table for each workflow as shown in Figure 9 which is based on the workflow definition shown in Figure 6. Referring to the fourth row in this table. According to workflow definition with ID WF3456, activity C_i can be activated when B1_i and B2_i are finished, where i is the index of the activity. The first row means that A_0 should be activated when workflow process starts and A_i can be activated when D_i-1 is finished 
A 002 X 003 004 002\006 X 003 004 010\010 
Figure 6 A workflow process When a participant finishes the execution of an activity Figure 7. Some rows in a DRA4WfMS document pool table Figure 8 Some rows in a DRA4WfMS document pool table It is very common for a WfMS to support the notification function in which a participant is informed immediately when an activity is ready to be executed by him/her However, the information contained in this table is insufficient for the portal server to decide if it should notify the participant of the subsequent activities. For example referring to Figure 8. The execution of two activities Figure 9 Some rows in a DRA4WfMS notification table Generally speaking, it is no need to use the MapReduce computation when we need to retrieve and store a DRA4WfMS document. When a participant receives a notification, which contains the workflow definition ID workflow process ID, activity ID and index, to ask him/her to execute an activity, it uses these information to request a retrieval for the necessary DRA4WfMS documents. After the execution is finished, he/she can upload a DRA4WfMS document according to the notification information 
Andsplit Andjoin Initial document 
Row DraDoc:XML Activity NextActivities Attribute UpdateTime tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_P1029890 _Init A DRA4WfMS document A_0 A_Agency Timestamp tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_P1029890 _A_0 A DRA4 WfMS document B1_0  B1_COM1 B2_0 B2_COM2 Timestamp tw edu.ntnu_WF3456_P1029890 _B1_0 A DRA4WfMS document C_0 C_Agency Timestamp tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_P1029890_B2_0 A DRA4WfMS document C_0 C_Agency Timestamp tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_P1029890 _C_0 A DRA4WfMS document D_0 D_Agency Timestamp tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_P1029890 _D_0 A DRA4WfMS document t End Timestamp Row DraDoc:XML Activity NextActivities Attribute UpdateTime tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_P1029890 _Init A DRA4WfMS document A_0 A_Agency Timestamp tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_P1029890 _A_0 A DRA4 WfMS document B1_0  B1_COM1 B2_0 B2_COM2 Timestamp tw.edu.ntnu_WF3456_P1029890_B1_0 A DRA4WfMS document C_0 C_Agency Timestamp 
74 


  None of todayês cloud storage services provide security Readé or çWriteé randomly, is less than 350 ms 
The notification information can be sent to the participant via E-mail or any other kind of communication system When a participant receives the notification information, it usually stores it and then processing the execution of activity accordingly. However, the notification information may get lost. Intuitively, one of the solutions is that the system maintains a TO-DO list for all the participants. However, the TO-DO list of a participant may change dynamically as the role of a participant may change. When the notification information of a participant is lo st or we change the role of a participant, we have to search the DRA4WfMS document pool table to derive the TO-DO list for that participant Because we support multitenancy architecture, we must offer an efficient way to search the table. Fortunately, Hadoop supports MapReduce computation for parallel processing of rows in HBase table. To derive the TO-DO list for a participant, we activate the MapReduce computation in DRA4WfMS document pool table Each row is processed in parallel. The cell Activity:NextActivities is checked to find if it contains the ID of the participant. Then, we employ the DRA4WfMS notification table to decide if the activity is ready to start V C ONSTRUCTING DRA4W F MS IN U NTRUSTED C LOUD I NFRASTRUCTURE The DRA4WfMS documents stored in a DRA4WfMS cloud system usually contain important data. Storing important data in cloud storage is associated with serious security risks. The service provider can leak confidential data modify the data, or return inconsistent data to users. Any of these problems may occur due to bugs, crashes, operator errors, or misconfigurations. Furthermore, malicious security attacks can be much harder to defend against and also be more damaging than accidental ones: external adversaries may illegally access the servers operated by the cloud storage provider, or employees of the service provider may commit insider attacks. Such security breaches are possible even if a cloud storage provider implements strong security practices guarantees in their service-level agreements \(SLAs\ For example, the SLAs of S3 [36  and A z ure   3 7  on ly g u a r a nte e  availability: if availability falls below 99.9%, clients are reimbursed a contractual sum of money. The applying element-wise encryption and chaining characteristic execution results make DRA4WfMS fulfill the security features of authentication, confidentiality, data integrity, and nonrepudiation. Even though the servers which store the process instances are not controlled by a company, this company does not have to worry about the security problems for workflow processes. However, the client still cannot ensure that his/her data in DRA4WfMS documents pool will not be lost. The basic idea to face this problem is to treat servers in a cloud system as untrusted in advance and apply replication to important data    23  24   2 5 F r o m a market perspective, it is unlikely that server providers will agree on an easy and standardized way to access services, as this would give clients total freedom in changing providers leading to increased open and direct competition with other providers. We think it is reluc tant for a company to place its WfMS in the cloud unless the company can migrate and replicate the process instances on his own without the need for the supporting of the cloud provider First, if the company is not satisfied with the service given by the service provider, it should have the full control to switch to another service provider on his own. For the switching, the company usually has to migrate the process instances for running processes and finished processes because it has to continue unfinished processes and finished processes contain important data. Second, even if the service provider offers some kind of SLAs such as availability. The customer may still feel that th e loss of any process instances for executing and finished proc esses is not acceptable at any situation. Given the architecture shown in Figure 4, a participant can make backup copies of DRA4WfMS documents in some commodity cloud storage servers on his own as AEA can obtain these DRA4WfMS documents during activity execution. The duplication of process instances is easy and can be made without the assistance of the original service provider. Since we have backup for all the DRA4WfMS documents, we can easily migrate to another service provider VI I MPLEMENTATION AND E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS In this section we present the experimental results. We implement the DRA4WfMS documents pool and portal server according to Figure 4. The DRA4WfMS documents pool is implemented in Hadoop. The portal server is an Apache server which communicates with AEA via HTTP protocol. We build a Hadoop clusters to implement the DRA4WfMS documents pool which consists of five PCs five nodes, each with 3.0GHz Intel Core 2 Quad processor, 2 GB of RAM, 500 GB of hard disk, Ubuntu 10.04 LTS operating system, and Java Development Kit 6 We perform experiments to evaluate the concurrent capability of processing transactions from a large number of participants. When a participant wants to do their task, it needs to connect to one of the portal servers. However, we only have a single DRA4WfMS documents pool as all the process instances are stored in a big table for the crossenterprise and multitenancy requ irement. Therefore, it is very likely that the DRA4WfMS documents pool may have to process many concurrent transactions from participants We measure the response time with different amount of participants and different amo unt of documents. We have the AEA, portal servers, and DRA4WfMS documents pool locate in the same network segment. We set the number of documents in the pool to be 10, 100, 1000, 10000, and 100000. When there is only one participant, the response time for processing a single transaction, which is either in all the situations. The worst case is that we have 1000 participants to access a DRA4WfMS documents pools with 10,000 process instances, where the minimal, average, and maximal response time is 919 ms, 11413 ms, and 21907 ms respectively 
75 


004 004 
 
004 004 004 004 004 
Third, in addition to multitenancy, the controlled data sharing makes it suitable to be a cross-enterprise WfMS which can provide workflow enactment service in cloud collaboration by exchanging data between users. Fourth, a multitenant system will inevita bly accept a large number of requests and therefore has to be scalable. We study how to employ the BigTable to store the process instances and implement the required operations for workflow execution in BigTable. Our system is scalable as it can operate even when the process instances from pa rticipants of multitenancy organizations form a big data. Finally, as the best of our knowledge, our system is th e first one which addresses problems of the untrusted server in the cloud-based WfMSs The client-side controlled pr ocess instance migration and replication together with the security mechanism in our system make it possible for client organizations to utilize untrusted cloud infrastructures to implement cross-enterprise WfMSs by cloud collaboration. The implementation and experiments demonstrate the feasibilities of the proposed system R EFERENCES 1 D G e o r g a ko po ul o s  M H o r nic k an d A  S he t   
T ABLE 1 T HE RESPONSE TIME OF CONCURRENT ACCESS ON DIFFERENT NUMBER OF DOCUMENTS STORED IN DOCUMENTS POOL A\ 10 documents in the DRAWfMS documents pool Number of concurrent participants Overview of Workflow Management: From Process Modeling to Workflow Automation Infrastructure Distributed and Parallel Databases, Vol 3, No. 2, 1995, Pages 119 153 2 S h i  M e i lin  Yan g G u an gxi n  Xi an g Yon g  an d W u Sha n ggua n g   Workflow Management Systems: A Survey International Conference on Communication Technology, 1998 3 W ork f lo w M a na gem e n t C o a lit i o n  Workflow: An Introduction Workflow Handbook, 2002 4 Workflow Software via Cloud Computing Service RunMyProcess http://www.runmyprocess.com 5 Visual Workflow: experience the speed of visual app development  http://www.salesforce.com/platform/cloud-platform/workflow.jsp 
            
Minimal \(ms Maximal \(ms Average \(ms 1 310 310 310 10 512 580 546 B\0 documents in the DRAWfMS documents pool Minimal \(ms Maximal \(ms Average \(ms 1 271 271 271 10 487 543 515 100 778 2673 1725.5 C\00 documents in the DRAWfMS documents pool Minimal \(ms Maximal \(ms Average \(ms 1 300 300 300 10 503 579 541 100 733 2657 7695 1000 863 21369 11116 D\ 10000 documents in the DRAWfMS documents pool Minimal \(ms Maximal \(ms Average \(ms 1 298 298 298 10 499 532 515.5 100 720 2717 1718.5 1000 919 21907 11413 E\0000 documents in the DRAWfMS documents pool Minimal \(ms Maximal \(ms Average \(ms 1 306 306 306 10 474 551 512.5 100 759 2767 1763 1000 840 21452 11146 VII R ELATED WORK Recently, many researchers tried to propose novel architecture for cloud-based WfMSs. Pathirage et al proposed a Multi-tenant Architecture for BPEL [1   T h ey  motivated the importance of multitenancy WfMSs. It uses Apache ODE [3 as its BPEL execu t ion ru ntim e T h e  proposed multi-tenant architect ure leverages the multi-tenant support of the Carbon architecture [39  A n stett et  al   addressed the issue of execu tion BPEL processes in the cloud [40  Muth u samy and Jac obs en a d dr esse d th e issu e o f  scalability for cloud WfMS [41 In  th ei r a r chite ctur e  centralized engine can be replicated and the process instances balanced among the replicas whereby even individual process instances ar e executed in a distributed manner. Mao et al. considered the features of distributed heterogeneous environment on the cloud for deploying cloud-oriented WfMSs [4  T h e y pr o pos e d a n e w dy n a m i c  cloud scheduling algorithm which takes consideration of the characteristics of cloud workflow and cloud resources. Lins and Stephenson et al. pres ents an environment to collaboratively model business processes considering security requirements and to automatically deploy them in the Cloud with security requirements enforcement [4  I n  their framework, the client company must trust the service provider as security is enforced by the engine servers in the cloud. Liu et al. pointed the current workflow systems have two critical issues resource scalability and decentralized management [4 T h ey  pr o p o s ed a pee r t op e e r base d C l ou d  workflow system for managing large scale workflow applications. However, their framework cannot support nonrepudiation for execution of activities and untrusted cloud environment The research work for constructing application on untrusted servers mainly concentrates on the application of cloud storage. One way to recover from a malicious server corrupting the persistent store is to replicate the data on several servers [22   23    2 4   2 5   Re pli c a t i o n  o n m u ltipl e  servers can ensure preservation of data even when many of the servers are malicious. With client-side process instance migration and replication and the security mechanism of DRA4WfMS, the client can employ untrusted server to constructs trustworthy WfMSs in the cloud VIII C ONCLUSION In this paper, we propose a novel architecture for Cloudbased WfMSs. First of all, combining element-wise encryption and embedding chained digital signatures in process instances, our sys tem satisfies major security requirements of authentication confidentiality, data integrity and nonrepudiation. Second, the proposed system supports multitenancy. All the process in stances can be placed in a single pool with data security and isolation being fulfilled by it security mechanism. Fo r execution isolation, the executions of activities are performed in the AEA of client side so that the tenant execution is independent from the others 
76 


6 Aneka: Enabling .NET-based Enterprise Grid and Cloud Computing http://www.manjrasoft.com/products.html 7 Azure Services Platform http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki Microsoft_Azure#Azure_Platform_Components 8 Implementing Workflows on Google App Engine with Fantasm http://code.google.com/intl/zh-TW/appengine/articles/fantasm.html 9 S Ce ri, P  G r e f e n an d G  S n c h e z Architecture for Workflow Management The 7th Int. Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering, Birmingham, 1997 10 P  M u t h D  W o dt ke J. W e iﬂe n f e l s A   K o tz D ittr ic h an d G   Weikum From Centralized Workflow Specification to Distributed Workflow Execution Journal of Intelligent Information Systems 10\(2\:159-184, 1998  H Sc hu s t er J  Neeb  a nd  R  Sch a m bu r ger  A Configuration Management Approach for Large Workflow Management Systems Proc. Joint Conf. on Work Activities Coordination and Collaboration San Francisco, 1999  T  B a u e r an d P Dad a m Efficient Distributed Workflow Management Based on Variable Server Assignments B. Wangler, L Bergman \(Eds.\ CAiSE 2000, LNCS 1789, pp. 94-109, 2000 13 L ijie J i n F a bio Cas a t i  Me hm e t S a y a l  a n d  Mi ngC h ie n S h an  Load balancing in distributed workflow management system  Proceedings of the 2001 ACM symposium on Applied computing  Geor ge C ou l ou ri s  J e an Dolli m o re a n d T i m K i nd b e rg Distributed Systems: Concepts and Design \(3rd Edition Addison Wesley, 2000  I r en a B o ja n ova  J ia Z h an g a n d  L i a n g J i e Z h a n g Volume 14, Issue 1, 2012 16 M i l i n d a Pat h irag e  Sri n a t h Pe re ra, I n d i k a K u mara   a n d Sa n jiv a  tenant Architecture for Business Process on Web Services, pp. 121-128  C hun F en g L i a o  K u n g  C h en   a n d  J i u aware Query Rewriting Engine for Universal Table Schema International Workshop on SaaS \(Software-as-a-Service Architecture and Engineering, Taipei, Taiwan, 2012 18 C. D  W e issman a n d S  Bo b r o w sk i  The design of the Froce.com multitenant internet application developmen Proc. ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2009   21 A r iel J F e l d man W i l l i am P. Z e lle r, M i c h ae l J. F r ee d man  a n d  PORC: Group Collaboration using Untrusted The 9TH USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation, 2010 22 A  A d y a, W Bo l o sk y M Castr o  G Ce r mak R C h a i ke n, J D o uce u r  J. Howell, J. Lorch, M. Theimer, and R. Wattenhof Federated, Available, and Eliable Storage for an Incompletely Operating Systems Design and Implementation, pages 1 14, December 2002  J  K u bi at ow i c z D  B i nd el Y  C h e n  S. C zerw i n s k i  P. E a t o n  D  Geels, R. Gummadi, S. Rhea, H. Weatherspoon, W. Weimer, C Wells, and B. Zhao sca le International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems December 2000  G   G a n ger P  K h os la  M  Ba kka logl u   M  Bi gri gg G  Good s o n  S  Oguz, V. Pandurangan, C. Soules, J. Strunk, and J. Wylie Survivable storage systems DARPA Information Survivability Conference and Exposition,  volume 2, pages 184 195, June 2001 25 P  D r usc h e l and A  Ro w s tr o n  Storage management and caching in PAST, a large-scale, persistent peerto-peer storage utility ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, 2001 26 E u J i n G o h, H o v a v S h ac ham  N a g e ndr a Mo da d u g u  an d D a n Bo ne h  Securing Remote Unstrusted Stora proceedings of the Internet Society Network and Distributed Systems Security Symposium 2003, pp. 131-145 27 M. K a l l a hal l a E Rie d e l  R. S w ami n a t h a n  Q  W a ng  an d K  F u   USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies, 2003 28 Ral u c a A d a P o pa J a c o b R. L o r c h, D a v id Mo l n ar H e l e n J  W a ng  and Li Zhuang ecurity in Cloud Storage SLAs with 29 G w an H w a n H w ang  Je nn Z jo ne P e ng  an d W e i S i an H u ang A Mutual Nonrepudiation Protocol for Cloud Storage with Interchangeable Accesses of a Single Account from Multiple Devices IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications, Melbourne, Australia 16-18 July, 2013  ACMQueue http://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=1563874\, July 6 th 2009 31 G w an H w a n H w ang an d Y u C he ng  H s iao   for Decentralized Workflow Management Systems Gwan-Hwan Hwang and Yu-Cheng Hsiao. Technical Report, National Taiwan Normal University, 2011. http://www.csie.ntnu.edu.tw/~ghhwang TR/DRA4WfMS_Technical_Report_2011_12_01.pdf 32 G w an H w a n H w ang an d T a oK u Cha n g An Operational Model and Language Support for Securing XML Documents Computers Security, Volume 23, Issue 6, pp. 498-529, 2004 33 G w an H w a n H w ang an d T a oK u Ch a n g Towards Attribute Encryption and a Generalized Encryption Model for XML The 4th International Conference on Internet Computing 2003 \(IC'03\, Las Vegas, Nevada, USA  F a y C h a n g Je ffre y De a n  Sa n j a y G h e m a w a t  W i lson C  Hs i e h   Deborah A. Wallach, Mike Burrows, Tushar Chandra, Andrew Fikes and Robert E. Gruber Bigtable: A Distributed Storage System for Structured Data The Seventh Symposium on Operating System Design and Implementation, Seattle, WA, November, 2006  Reilly Media ISBN 978-1-4493-3877-0, May 10 th 2012  http://aws.amazon.com/s3-sla  http://www.microsoft.com/windowsazure pricng  A p a c h e  Tenant SOA Middle- ware for Cloud Computing IEEE Conference on Cloud Computing, 2010  Tob i a s A n s t et t F r a n k L e y m a n n   R a l p h  M i et zn er   a nd S t eve S t r a uc h  ards BPEL in the Cloud: Exploiting Different Delivery Models World Conference on Services I, pp. 670-677, 2009 41 V i no d  Mu th us a m y an d H a ns Business Process Management 2010, Hoboken, NJ, USA, pp. 5-10  Cloud-Orien 8\(1\: 251-258 \(2013 43 F e r n an do A n t nio  A ir e s  L ins  Ro bs o n W  A  Me de ir o s  Br uno L  B Silva, Andre R. R. Souza, David Arag„o, Julio C. Damasceno, Paulo Romero Martins Maciel, Nelson Souto Rosa, Bryan Stephenson, and Development of Business Processes with Security Requirements in 60  C: a Peer-to-peer Based Cloud Workflow System for Managing Instance Intensive A Handbook of Cloud Computing, Springer 2010, pp. 309 332 
      WIDE ä A Distributed            Enforcing Multitenancy for Cloud Computing Environments,é IT Professional Weerawarana, çA Multi Executions,é Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE International Conference Jye Chen, çToward a Tenant Mapping  t platform Google docs,é http://docs.google.com Google calendar,é http://www.google.com/calendar Edward W. Felten, çS Cloud Resources er, çFARSITE Trusted Environment  Oceanstore: An Architecture for Global Persistent Storage      Sirius ge Plutus: Scalable Secure File Sharing on Untrusted Storage Enabling S CloudProof,é in USENIX Annual Technical Conference, June 2011   Adam Jacobs, çThe Pathologies of Big Data A Security Framework        Tom White, çHadoop: The Definitive Guide,é O AMAZON, çAmazon S3 Service Level Agreement MICROSOFT CORPORATION. çWindows Azure Pricing and Service Agreement Software Foundation, çApache ODE,é http://ode.apache.org A. Azeez and S. Perera et al., çMulti  Tow for the Execution of Business Processes  Arno Jacobsen, çBPM in Cloud Architectures: Business Process Management with SLAs and Events Lei Mao, Yongguo Yang, and Hui Xu, çDesign and Optimization of ted Workflow System,é Journal of Software, Volume J. Li, çSSC4Cloud Tooling: An Integrated Environment for the the Cloud,é SERVICES 2011,pp. 53 X. Liu, D. Yuan, G. Zhang, J. Chen, and Y. Yang, çSwinDeW pplications  
77 


A Generic SUT Adapter Framework for Protocol Conformance Testing 598 Jiexi Zha, Xiaohong Huang, Jing Qian, and CÈsar Viho Enhanced IEEE 802.11 Power Saving for Multi-hop Toy-to-Toy Communication 603 Ioannis Glaropoulos, Stefan Mangold, and Vladimir Vukadinovic Streaming the Sound of Smart Cities: Experimentations on the SmartSantander Test-Bed 611 Congduc Pham and Philippe Cousin An Ad-Hoc Smart Gateway Platform for the Web of Things 619 Darren Carlson, Bashar Altakrouri, and Andreas Schrader Energy-Efficient and Low-Delay Scheduling Strategy for Low Power Wireless Sensor Network 626 Zheng Zhang, Zhenbo Li, and Jiapin Chen MOCLO: A Cloud Framework for Mobile Devices 632 Akash Gangil, Sanjay K. Dhurandher, Mohammad S. Obaidat, Vijit Singh and Sushant Bhatia Efficient Simulation Environment of Wireless Radio Communications in MEMS Modular Robots 638 Nicolas Boillot, Dominique Dhoutaut, and Julien Bourgeois An Improved Location Algorithm Based on CC2431 646 Yinghui Kong and Qingqing Yang A Location Optimization Method Based on Communication Requirements to Reconnect Separated Communication Areas after a Disaster 653 Junbo Wang, Kazuhiro Matsumoto, Zixue Cheng, and Yinghui Zhou Towards the Benefit of Multi-hop Relaying in Opportunistic Networking 658 Jia Jianbin, Chen Yingwen, Xu Ming, Xia Geming, and Xiao Xiaoqiang Track 7: Reliability, Security, Privacy and Trust Random Forest Classification for Detecting Android Malware 663 Mohammed S. Alam and Son T. Vuong Track 8: System Design Modeling and Evaluation Emotion Animation of Embodied Conversational Agents with Contextual Control Model 670 Xiaobu Yuan and Rajkumar Vijayarangan A Passive Testing Approach for Protocols in Internet of Things 678 Xiaoping Che and Stephane Maag Using Patterns of Social Dynamics in the Design of Social Networks of Sensors 685 Marcello Tomasini, Franco Zambonelli, and Ronaldo Menezes Building a Practical Sensing System 693 Robert S. Moore, Bernhard Firner, Chenren Xu, Richard Howard, Yanyong Zhang and Richard P. Martin 
xiii 


Efficient Data Gathering in Wireless Sensor Networks Based on Low Rank Approximation 699 Xinglin Piao, Yongli Hu, Yanfeng Sun, and Baocai Yin Distributed Resolution of a Trajectory Optimization Problem on a MEMS-Based Reconfigurable Modular Surface 707 Serge Tembo and Didier El-Baz A Theoretical Model to Efficiently Transport YouBike 716 Cheng-Chung Li and Lingyi Liu Design and Implementation of a Smart IoT Gateway 720 Shang Guoqiang, Chen Yanming, Zuo Chao, and Zhu Yanxu UAI-IOT Framework: A Method of Uniform Interfaces to Acquire Information from Heterogeneous Enterprise Information Systems 724 Hongyu Li, Ye Tian, Yang Liu, Tingli Li, and Wei Mao 2013 IEEE International Conference on Cyber, Physical and Social Computing \(CPSCom 2013 Track 1: Applications and Services AMPS: An Adaptive Message Push Strategy for Ubiquitous Terminals 731 Kehua Guo, Yongling Liu, and Jianhua Ma Smart Signage: An Interactive Signage System with Multiple Displays 737 James She, Jon Crowcroft, Hao Fu, and Pin-Han Ho A Semi-supervised Incremental Learning Algorithm Based on Auto-adaptive Probabilistic Hypergraph and Its Application for Video Semantic Detection 743 Jiayao Sun and Yongzhao Zhan Enhancing Adherence to Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia through Machine and Social Persuasion 750 Yong-Xiang Chen, Hsi-Chung Chen, Li-Xiang Chen, Jia-Wei Hu, Chuen-Kai Shie Yu-Shan Lin, Pradnya Borade, Chau-Che Yeh, Han-Hong Lin, Siek-Siang Chiang Yu-Chun Chen, Wei-Zen Sun, and Yi-Ping Hung Social TV EPG Interaction Design for Multi-screen Environment 758 Fang You, Jian-Min Wang, Han Cao, Ting Xie, and Ze-Long Tang Track 2: Cloud Computing and Data Mining Generating Discriminative Visual Vocabulary Based on Fusion of Features 764 Chang-Sheng Peng A Review of Key Issues That Concern the Feasibility of Mobile Cloud Computing 769 Chunsheng Zhu, Victor C.M. Leung, Xiping Hu, Lei Shu, and Laurence T. Yang An Effective IoT Services Indexing and Query Technique 777 Chu Du, Zhangbing Zhou, Lei Shu, Xiangyang Jia, and Qun Wang 
xiv 


Visualization Services for Multidisciplinary Experiments on Cloud-Based Virtual Educational Platform 783 Guodong Jia, Xiaowu Chen, Faming Li, and Rongjiang Pan Track 3: Cyber-Physical Systems and Society An Implementation towards Integrated Simulation of Cyber-physical Systems 789 Xiaoyu Li, Yuying Wang, Xingshe Zhou, Dongfang Liang, and Chenglie Du In-Situ Web Mashup and Hypermedia Support for Mobile Vision-Based AR Applications 797 Yu You, Lixin Fan, Ville-Veikko Mattila, Alain Boyer, and Tuomas Kantonen Formal Specification of Cyber Physical Systems: Three Case Studies Based on Clock Theory 804 Bingqing Xu and Lichen Zhang Smart Business Services via Consumer Purchasing Behaviour Modeling 812 Atsushi Sato, Toshihiro Tamura, Runhe Huang, Jianhua Ma, and Neil Y. Yen iCPS-Car: An Intelligent Cyber-physical System for Smart Automobiles 818 Sha Zhao, Shijian Li, Longbiao Chen, Yang Ding, Zeming Zheng, and Gang Pan Privacy-Preserving Point-to-Point Transportation Traffic Measurement through Bit Array Masking in Intelligent Cyber-physical Road Systems 826 Yian Zhou, Qingjun Xiao, Zhen Mo, Shigang Chen, and Yafeng Yin Social Community-Partition Aware Replica Allocation in Ad-Hoc Social Networks 834 Ahmedin Mohammed Ahmed, Feng Xia, Nana Yaw Asabere, Hannan Bin Liaqat, and Jie Li Track 4: Pervasive/Ubiquitous Control, Computing and Networking Faceted Search in Business Intelligence on the Cloud 842 Hussain Al-Aqrabi, Lu Liu, Richard Hill, Lei Cui, and Jianxin Li Inferring Barriers of Urban City Using Mobile Phone Record 850 Feng Xiang, Lai Tu, and Benxiong Huang A Global Dynamic Queuing Strategy on Scale-Free Networks 856 Pengcheng Xu and Chen Hong Track 5: Security, Trustworthiness and Privacy Trust and Risk-Based Access Control Model for Zero-Knowledge Oriented Mobile Peer-to-Peer Environments 860 Zhi-yan Li, Jun-lei Bi, and Lu Liu Distributed SVM Classification with Redundant Data Removing 866 Xiangjun Shen, Zhen Li, Zhongqiu Jiang, and Yongzhao Zhan Smart Grid Wireless Network Security Requirements Analysis 871 Khaja Altaf Ahmed, Zeyar Aung, and Davor Svetinovic 
xv 


A Video Semantic Analysis Method Based on Kernel Discriminative Sparse Representation and Weighted KNN 879 Shan Dai, Yongzhao Zhan, Qirong Mao, and Shanshan Zhang Implementation of an SMS Spam Control System Based on Trust Management 887 Liang Chen, Zheng Yan, Weidong Zhang, and Raimo Kantola Privacy Disclosure Identification in Social Networks 895 Feng Zhang, Bin Wu, Bai Wang, and Feng Gao Moments in Time: A Forensic View of Twitter 899 Chris Howden, Lu Liu, Zhijun Ding, Yongzhao Zhan, and K.P. Lam A Query-Aware Location Privacy Protection Approach in LBS for Road Networks 909 Wei Li, Jiangtao Jiang, Yunchun Li, and Guojun Li Unveil the Spams in Weibo 916 Kan Chen, Liang Chen, Peidong Zhu, and Yueshan Xiong Track 6: Sensor/Actuator Networks Understanding Human Dynamics of Check-in Behavior in LBSNs 923 Yun Feng, Zhiwen Yu, Xinjiang Lu, and Jilei Tian Reliability Extensions and Multi-hop Evaluation of Distributed Protocol Stacks 931 Peter Rothenpieler Evaluation of the Task Communication Performance in Wireless Sensor Networks: A Queue Theory Approach 939 Wang Jie, Kuan-jiu Zhou, Kai Cui, Xiang-jie Kong, and Guang Yang An Improved Stable Election Based Routing Protocol with Mobile Sink for Wireless Sensor Networks 945 Jin Wang, Zhongqi Zhang, Jian Shen, Feng Xia, and Sungyoung Lee Mobile-Sink Routing Algorithm Based on Energy and Distance for Wireless Sensor Networks 951 Jin Wang, Xiaoqin Yang, Jian Shen, Ping Guo, and Feng Xia Integration of Range-Based and Range-Free Localization Algorithms in Wireless Sensor Networks for Mobile Clouds 957 Yufeng Wang, Qun Jin, and Jianhua Ma Track 7: Social Computing Modeling and Predicting the Re-post Behavior in Sina Weibo 962 Xinjiang Lu, Zhiwen Yu, Bin Guo, and Xingshe Zhou Predicting Content Virality in Social Cascade 970 Ming Cheung, James She, and Lei Cao ContextOS: A Context Aware Operating System for Mobile Devices 976 Kanishka Ariyapala, Mauro Conti, and Chamath Keppitiyagama Follow You from Your Photos 985 Jie Zhang, Hui Zhao, and Yusheng Xie 
xvi 


On the Evolution of Contacts and Communities in Networks of Face-to-Face Proximity 993 Mark Kibanov, Martin Atzmueller, Christoph Scholz, and Gerd Stumme Community Detection Based on Readers' Borrowing Records 1001 Liu Xin, E. Haihong, and Song Junde Design of a Mobile Telephony System for Social Interaction 1006 Yuan-Chih Yu Understanding News Sharing in Social Media from the Diffusion of Innovations Perspective 1013 Long Ma, Chei Sian Lee, and Dion H. Goh A Study of Offline Events and Its Influence on Online Social Connections in Douban 1021 Alvin Chin, Jilei Tian, Junwei Han, and Jianwei Niu How Long a Passenger Waits for a Vacant TaxióLarge-Scale Taxi Trace Mining for Smart Cities 1029 Guande Qi, Gang Pan, Shijian Li, Daqing Zhang, Lin Sun, and Laurence Tianruo Yang iThings/CPSCom 2013 Symposia Symposium on Frontiers of Internet of Things \(SymIoT Frequent Itemset Based Event Detection in Uncertain Sensor Networks 1037 Yongxuan Lai and Jinshan Xie Improved RETE Algorithm in Context Reasoning for Web of Things Environments 1044 Teng Gao, Xiaofeng Qiu, and Lijuan He Ultra-low-power Neural Recording Microsystem for Implantable Brain Machine Interface 1050 Weidong Cao and Hongge Li From Internet of Things to Internet of Agents 1054 Han Yu, Zhiqi Shen, and Cyril Leung Using Kasa Method to Separate Target's RCS Characters from Background in Electromagnetic Sensing within Anechoic Chamber Measurement 1058 Jingcheng Zhao and Ming Lv Research on IPv6 Address Forecast Model of Smart Grid 1064 Xin Miao and Xi Chen Relay Node Deployment Based Small World Effect in Hierarchical Industrial Wireless Sensor Networks 1066 Jieyu Wu, Xinyu Shao, and Haiping Zhu A Development Analysis of China's Intelligent Transportation System 1072 Yuxiang Yan and Chenxue Xu An Anti-collision Algorithm Using Tag Random-Dispersing for RFID Systems 1077 Yang Qing, Li Jian-cheng, Wang Hong-yi, and Shen Rong-jun Pairing and Authentication Security Technologies in Low-Power Bluetooth 1081 Junfeng Xu, Tao Zhang, Dong Lin, Ye Mao, Xiaonan Liu, Shiwu Chen, Shuai Shao Bin Tian, and Shengwei Yi 
xvii 


An Attribute-Based Encryption Scheme with Constant-Size Ciphertexts 1086 Yanfeng Qi, Chunming Tang, Yu Lou, Maozhi Xu, and Baoan Guo Synthetic Evaluation of the Trustworthiness of Integrated Monitoring-Controlling System for LED Display Based on Fuzzy AHP 1089 Yuanmei Wen, Li Luo, Xuechen Yu, and Yanyu Chen Improvement of Peach Platform to Support GUI-Based Protocol State Modeling 1094 Hao Wang, Qiaoyan Wen, and Zhao Zhang Game Theoretic Analysis of Workload Factoring in Federation of Clouds 1098 Yonggen Gu and Changlei Lin Study on Heartbeat Information Acquired from Pressure Cushion Based on Body Sensor Network 1103 Junrong Bao, Xiaoyun Shou, Hua Wang, and Haiyan Yang Towards an Equitable Federated Name Service for the Internet of Things 1109 Xinchi Li, Yang Liu, Ye Tian, Ning Kong, Yan Wang, and Wei Mao Double Nested Internet of Things for Intelligent Management of Police Equipment 1116 Li Shengguang, Tan Lin, Wang Junxiu, and Yu Rui A Universal Object Name Resolution Scheme for IoT 1120 Zhiwei Yan, Ning Kong, Ye Tian, and Yong-Jin Park The New Intelligent Prediction for Bus Congestion Based on History Information Processing 1125 Yan Zhang and Guixi Xiong Construction and Strategies in IoT Security System 1129 Quandeng Gou, Lianshan Yan, Yihe Liu, and Yao Li Fuzzy Double-Threshold Track Association Algorithm Using Adaptive Threshold in Distributed Multisensor-Multitarget Tracking Systems 1133 Wei Du, Huansheng Ning, Yuan Wei, and Jun Wang An Intelligent System for Precast Concrete Element Manufacturing Management Based on RFID Technology 1138 Hu Min and Lu Junyu Data Management for Internet of Things: Challenges, Approaches and Opportunities 1144 Meng Ma, Ping Wang, and Chao-Hsien Chu Residential Energy Management in Smart Grid: A Markov Decision Process-Based Approach 1152 Sudip Misra, Ayan Mondal, Shukla Banik, Manas Khatua, Samaresh Bera and Mohammad S. Obaidat A Space-Time with Weight Algorithm for RFID Data Interpolation 1158 Ming Ke, Xin Wang, Jianxin Tang, and Xuhui Chen Integration of Smart Sensor Networks into Internet of Things: Challenges and Applications 1162 Dan Partynski and Simon G.M. Koo 
xviii 


Integrating Context-Awareness and Trustworthiness in IoT Descriptions 1168 Kaiyu Wan and Vangalur Alagar Building Smart M2M Applications Using the WuKong Profile Framework 1175 Kwei-Jay Lin, Neils Reijers, Yu-Chung Wang, Chi-Sheng Shih, and Jane Y. Hsu A Human Trajectory Estimate Based on Individual Mobility Pattern Library 1181 Yang Yang, Bowen Du, and Xiao Jiang The Research on Monitoring of Discrete Manufacturing Process Based on Internet of Things 1186 Liuyin Yuan, Yu Guo, Jiajun Jiang, and Liyun Nian Research on the Framework of Internet of Things in Manufacturing for Aircraft Large Components Assembly Site 1192 Jihong Liu and Jie Yu Technical State Monitoring and Evaluation of Aerospace Product Manufacturing Workshop Based on Internet of Things 1197 Jihong Liu and Wenting Xu Temperature Map Recovery Based on Compressive Sensing for Large-Scale Wireless Sensor Networks 1202 Xuanxuan Wu, Cheng-Long Chuang, and Joe-Air Jiang Interoperability Repository System for the Internet-of-Things 1207 Pedro MalÛ, Tiago Teixeira, Bruno Almeida, and M·rcio Mateus Discussion on Key Technologies in Forestry Fundamental Scientific Information Cloud Service Platform 1216 Mubo Zhang, Zhongming Li, and Fan Li Symposium on Frontiers of Cyber-Physical-Social Computing SymCPS Leveraging Social Network APIs for Enhancing Smartphone Apps: An Example of VoIP App 1219 Shuchih Ernest Chang and Pin-Fan Lee Extending and Recompiling AADL for CPS Modeling 1225 Zhonghao Sun and Xingshe Zhou A Novel Frequency Hopping Scheme Based on Cognitive Radio for Aircraft 1231 Lei Zhidong and Zhang Xiaolin Modeling Effects of Physical Factors on Controller Area  Network in Cyber-physical Systems 1237 Bo Shen, Xingshe Zhou, and Ru Wang Detecting Flu Transmission by Social Sensor in China 1242 Jiangmiao Huang, Hui Zhao, and Jie Zhang A Smart Cyber-physical Systems-Based Solution for Pest Control \(Work in Progress 1248 Farhad Mehdipour, Krishna Chaitanya Nunna, and Kazuaki J. Murakami 
xix 


A Hybrid Content-Based Filtering Approach: Recommending Microbloggers for Web-Based Communities 1254 Kejun Dong and Yi Shen Just-in-Time Social Cloud: Computational Social Platform to Guide People's Just-in-Time Decisions 1259 Kwan Hong Lee, Andrew Lippman, Alex S. Pentland, and Pattie Maes Towards a Hybrid Approach of Primitive Cognitive Network Process and K-Means Clustering for Social Network Analysis 1267 Chun Guan and Kevin Kam Fung Yuen A Compressive Sensing Based Secure Data Transmission Scheme 1272 Guorui Li and Ying Wang An IO Optimized Data Access Method in Distributed Key-Value Storage System 1276 Li Chao, Wu Guangjun, Wang Shupeng, and Li Yixi W e  K n o w  W h a t  Y o u  A r e A  U s e r  C l a s s i f i c a t i o n  B a s e d  o n  M o b i l e  D a t a                                                             1 2 8 2 Duan Hu, Fei Sun, Lai Tu, and Benxiong Huang E f f i c i e n t  S e c u r i t y  S o l u t i o n  f o r  I n f o r m a t i o n c e n t r i c  N e t w o r k i n g                                                                          1 2 9 0 Hasen Nicanfar, Peyman TalebiFard, Chunsheng Zhu, and Victor C.M. Leung Towards Dynamic Resource Provisioning for Traffic Mining Service Cloud 1296 Jianjun Yu and Tongyu Zhu Leading Users Detecting Model in Professional Community Question Answering Services 1302 Siqi Song, Ye Tian, Wenwen Han, Xirong Que, and Wendong Wang A Moving Foreground Expansion Method Based on the Gaussian Distribution 1308 Yanhua Li, Wei Li, and Qi Xiang A Hybrid Emotion Recognition on Android Smart Phones 1313 Weishan Zhang, Xin Meng, Qinghua Lu, Yuan Rao, and Jiehan Zhou Multi-view Approach for Modeling Aerospace Cyber-physical Systems 1319 Lichen Zhang EigenCrime: An Algorithm for Criminal Network Mining Based on Trusted Computing 1325 Shujun Cai, Jiangnan Xia, Keyi Sun, and Zhen Wang A Task-Attribute-Based Workflow Access Control Model 1330 Yi Liu, Ke Xu, and Junde Song GreenBicycling: A Smartphone-Based Public Bicycle Sharing System for Healthy Life 1335 Yifan Zhao, Longbiao Chen, Chao Teng, Shijian Li, and Gang Pan Multi-step Sensor Scheduling for Energy-Efficient High-Accuracy Collaborative Target Tracking in Wireless Sensor Networks 1341 Biao Song, Wendong Xiao, and Zhaohui Zhang xx  


International Workshop on Vehicular Sensor and Ad-Hoc Networks \(VeSAN 2013 Toward Optimal Additive Noise Distribution for Privacy Protection in Mobile Statistics Aggregation 1346 Hao Zhang, Yonggang Wen, Honggang Hu, and Nenghai Yu Performance Analysis of a Hierarchical Structured VANET 1352 Wanting Zhu, Qing Zhang, and A.C.M. Fong Multilevel Cluster-Based Information Fusion in Vehicle Ad Hoc Networks 1357 Weicheng Zhao, Linjuan Zhang, Wanting Zhu, and Yanqi Zhao PSFCS: Robust Emergency Communications Supporting High-Mobility Based on WiMAX MMR Networks 1363 Wen-Kang Jia, Chia-Yao Chen, and Yaw-Chung Chen International Workshop on Next Topics for Green Communications and Computing \(GreenCom-Next 2013 On Energy Efficiency Data Access and Backup for Cloud Computing Networks 1369 Yeanf-Fu Wen A Model to Analyze the Energy Savings of Base Station Sleep Mode in LTE HetNets 1375 Paolo Dini, Marco Miozzo, Nicola Bui, and Nicola Baldo Soft Timing Synchronization Algorithm for CPM Signals 1381 Xiangchao Zhou, Rui Xue, Danfeng Zhao, and Fu Fang Secure Framework for the Return Routability Procedure in MIPv6 1386 Faisal Al Hawi, Chan Yeob Yeun, and Khaled Salah An Energy Efficient Cache Design for Multi-core Processors 1392 Cao Xiangrong and Zhang Xiaolin Analysis Method of Energy for C Source Program and Its Application 1397 Yang Yuechuan, Zeng Guosun, Ding Chunling, and Wang Wei Simulating Stochastic Activation Functions 1403 Hanno Hildmann, Sebastien Nicolas, and Fabrice Saffre Power-Efficient Virtual Machine Placement and Migration in Data Centers 1408 Shuo Fang, Renuga Kanagavelu, Bu-Sung Lee, Chuan Heng Foh, and Khin Mi Mi Aung Probabilistic Modeling during Power Estimation for Mixed Polarity Reed-Muller Logic Circuits 1414 Xiang Wang, Ying Lu, Yi Zhang, Zexi Zhao, Tongsheng Xia, Jishun Cui, and Limin Xiao Ant-Colony Based Heuristics to Minimize Power and Delay in the Internet 1419 Shankar Raman, Gaurav Raina, Hanno Hildmann, and Fabrice Saffre Materialization of a Comprehensive Digital City with CityMaker and ArcGIS 1424 Mingzhu Deng, Guangming Liu, and Yuran Hu 
xxi 


iThings/CPSCom 2013 Workshops International Workshop on Biometric Recognition and Its Applications \(BR&A 2013 A New Method of Designing High-Power Electroplating Power Supply 1429 Yihong He and Shuiyong Yu The Study of Fusion Image Block and Sparse Representation Classification in Disguised Face Recognition 1434 Gan Junying, Liu Dan, Zeng Junying, and Tian fengxia SMT Components Model Inspection Based on Characters Image Matching and Verification 1438 Bing Luo, Yuehua Gao, Zhongyu Sun, and Sufang Zhao The Manipulation of Chaotic Synchronization Quality Based on VCSEL with Optical Feedback 1442 Dongzhou Zhong Fast Wavelet Thresholding Algorithms for Face Image Inpainting 1445 Yibin Yu, Jinguo Cao, Yaofang Tang, and JunYing Gan Multispectral Palmprint Recognition Using Score-Level Fusion 1450 Yibin Yu, Yaofang Tang, Jinguo Cao, and JunYing Gan Encryption Node Design in Internet of Things Based on Fingerprint Features and CC2530 1454 Zeng Bohan, Wang Xu, Zhou Kaili, and Zhao Xueyuan Facial Expression Recognition Based on Local Binary Pattern and Gradient Directional Pattern 1458 Wenjin Chu Design of Intelligent Inducing Switch 1463 Yang Zhao and Fengxia Tian International Workshop on Cyber Physical Society Information Processing \(CPSIP 2013 Identify Online Fraudster with Extended Cellular Automata 1467 Ji Li and Yueliang Xiao Harmonization of Cyber-physical Society 1473 Alexander Abramovich and Rashid Khunagov Influence Analyzing and Modeling of High Frequency Forwarding Microblogs 1479 Shangbo Zhou, Wei Wang, Jie Luo, Li Wan, and Yao Zhang Requirement Specification for Transportation Cyber Physical Systems 1486 Lichen Zhang Integration-Oriented Modeling of Cyber-physical Interactive Process 1492 Tao Guan and Gang Yang 
xxii 


Web-of-Things Framework for WeChat 1496 Huang Yitong, Lai Xiaozheng, Dai Bingpei, and Chen Qinyi International Workshop on Cyberspace Security and Information Countermeasures \(CS&IC 2013 Simulation Experiment Research of Cyberspace Confront Effectiveness Evaluation 1501 Yu Zhang, Chen Shansong, and Xie Deping Technology of Situation Awareness Based on Radar Network in Cyberspace 1505 Xun Yang, Wei Shan, and Liu Jia Space Information Security and Cyberspace Defense Technology 1509 Su Kang, Dong Qiaozhong, and Zhu WeiQiang International Workshop on Connected Vehicles and Vehicular Networks \(CV2N 2013 Real-Time Vehicle Route Guidance Based on Connected Vehicles 1512 Daxin Tian, Yong Yuan, Jianshan Zhou, Yunpeng Wang, Guangquan Lu, and Haiying Xia A Novel Two-Timer-Based Broadcast Routing Algorithm for Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks 1518 Song Fang and Tao Luo Research of Vehicle Counting Based on DBSCAN in Video Analysis 1523 Dayang Sun, Binbin Li, and Zhihong Qian A Self-Adaptive V2V Communication System with DSRC 1528 Daxin Tian, Hao Luo, Jianshan Zhou, Yunpeng Wang, Guizhen Yu, and HaiyingXia International Workshop on Electromagnetic Characteristics of Target and Environment \(ECTE 2013 SAR Segmentation and Recognition Based SCM 1533 Liping Hu and Xiaoyu Xing EM Scattering Analysis of Complex Target Coated with Plasma by Conformal SO-FDTD Method 1538 Hao-Chuan Deng, Xiao Wei, and Hong-Cheng Yin SAR RAW Data Simulation by Electromagnetic Computation in Frequency Domain 1542 Xupu Geng, Chunzhu Dong, Hongcheng Yin, and Guoqing Zhu Precession and Structural Parameters Estimation of the Cone-Shaped Target Based on the Profile Length 1545 Jing Huang, Chao Ning, and Zhihe Xiao Terahertz Gaussian Beam Scattering by a Conducting Sphere 1550 Liangsheng Li and Hongcheng Yin Reshaped Window Iterative Super-Resolution Imaging Algorithm 1554 Sheng Li, Liangsheng Li, and Hongcheng Yin Study on the influential factors of radar target RCS in resonance region 1557 Liang Man, Xiao Wei, and Zhihe Xiao 
xxiii 


A New Method for Estimating Radar Profile Length of a Cone Target 1561 Chao Ning, Jing Huang, Chao Gao, and Yong Zhu The Feature Extraction of Time-Frequency Image Based on Frequency Diversity 1566 Jing Sheng, Zhihe Xiao, and Jing Huang Characteristic Study of Target Micro-motion Based on the Wavelet Analysis 1571 Yuguang Tian, Chao Ning, and Xiangyang Zhang The Decorrelation Time Accumulation Restrain Method for Sea Clutter Spike 1576 Xujin Yuan, Yong Chen, Chao Wang, and Hongcheng Yin The Radar Echo Simulation of Moving Targets Based on HRRP 1580 Tao Zhao, Chun-Zhu Dong, Hong-Mei Ren, and Hong-Cheng Yin A Novel Method for Generating Planar Wave Based on Dielectric Gratings 1584 Dai Fei, Cheng Qiping, and Yue Hui Application of Terahertz Technology on RCS Measurement 1587 Wang Xiaobing, Huang Xin, Wu Yajun, Dai Fei, and Li Li Typical Target RCS Reduction Using Structural Radar Absorbing Material 1591 Yongfeng Wang and Kainan Qi International Workshop on Electromagnetic Detection and Identification \(EDI 2013 Error Analysis in Calculating RCS Using GRECO Method 1594 Zhi Hua Cheng, Yong Jun Xie, Xue Mei Wang, Yu Ru Mao, and Xiao Dong Ma Placement Optimization of Vehicular Antenna Using Particle Swarm Optimization 1597 Yu-Ru Mao, Yong-Jun Xie, Zhi-Hua Cheng, Xue-Mei Wang, and Xiao-Dong Ma A Novel Loss Compensated Multipath Power Divider for Frequency Synthesizer 1600 Tongfei Yu, Jungang Miao, Yan Xie, Baohua Yang, and Xianxun Yao An Approach for Extrapolating Far Field Radar Cross-Section from Near Field Measurement 1604 Gao Chao, Yuan Xiaofeng, and Bai Yang Implementation of the Digital Correlation Unit for Synthetic Aperture Interferometric Radiometer 1608 Xianxun Yao, Cheng Zheng, Baohua Yang, Jin Zhang, and Jungang Miao Design Procedures and Considerations of FOD Detection Millimeter-Wave FMCW Radar 1612 Jin Zhang, Cheng Zheng, Baohua Yang, Xianxun Yao, and Jungang Miao Exact Design of a Ka Band H-Plane Inductance Diaphragm Waveguide Band-Pass Filter 1618 Yong Fu, Baohua Yang, and Jungang Miao The Compact Microstrip Bandstop Filter Using Equal Width Open Stub 1622 Bao-Hua Yang, Ghulam Mehdi, Jin Zhang, Tong-fei Yu, Xian-xun Yao, and Jungang Miao 
xxiv 


The Design and Simulation of Hardware Architecture of the Fast and On-Site Assessing System of Scattering Characteristics of Stealth Aircraft Based on Simulink 1626 Hong Tao and Song Dan Second International Workshop on Engineering Pervasive Service Systems \(EPS 2013 Food Image Recognition Using Pervasive Cloud Computing 1631 Pengcheng Duan, Wenshan Wang, Weishan Zhang, Faming Gong, Peiying Zhang and Yuan Rao An Approach of Semantic Similarity by Combining HowNet and Cilin 1638 Peiying Zhang, Zhanshan Zhang, and Weishan Zhang Reconstruction of 3D Maps for 2D Satellite Images 1644 Lianzhang Zhu, Xuexing Zheng, and Pengfei Li Component-Based Cloud Computing Service Architecture for Measurement System 1650 Chao Liu, Qingsong Yu, Tianao Zhang, and Zhongwen Guo Second International Workshop on Energy and Wireless Sensors  \(e-WiSe 2013 Design Optimization of Electromagnetic MEMS Energy Harvester with Serpentine Coil 1656 Yuji Tanaka, Takayuki Fujita, Tatsuya Kotoge, Kohei Yamaguchi, Koji Sonoda Kensuke Kanda, and Kazusuke Maenaka Experimental Study of a Passive Impedance Matching Interface Based on a Centimeter-Size High Inductance Coil for Practically Enhanced Piezoelectric Energy Harvester Performance at Low Frequency 1659 Alessandro Giuliano and Meiling Zhu SPICE Modeling of Piezoelectric Energy Harvesting Device Utilizing Stress Influence 1662 Koji Sonoda, Takayuki Fujita, Kensuke Kanda, Kazusuke Maenaka, Hidenori Katsumura Masaya Tamura, and Hiroshi Kagata Modeling, Validation and Design Analyses of a Piezoelectric Cymbal Transducer for Non-resonant Energy Harvesting 1665 Alice Daniels, Alessandro Giuliano, Meiling Zhu, and Ashutosh Tiwari Towards Energy Autonomy of Wireless Sensors in Aeronautics Applications SMARTER Collaborative Project 1668 Marise Bafleur and Jean-Marie Dilhac 
xxv 


International Workshop on Gas Sensors and Gas-Sensing Platforms \(GS&GSP 2013 A Novel Surface Acoustic Wave Sensor for Optical Lens Surface Dirt Detection 1673 Jiuling Liu, Minghua Liu, Wen Wang, and Shitang He Electrical Sensoring Characteristics of Pseudo-LFE Sensors with Different Single Crystals 1676 Zhitian Zhang, Chao Zhang, Wenyan Wang, Yan Liu, and Tingfeng Ma Investigation of Polymer-Coated Film Bulk Acoustic Wave Resonator for Acetone Vapor Detection 1680 Jingjing Wang and Da Chen Polyaniline-Coated Surface Acoustic Wave Sensor for Humidity Detection 1685 Xiao Xie, Wen Wang, Shitang He, Ning Mu, and Yong Pan Effect of Facets of  Fe2O3 Nanostructures on Gas-Sensing Performance 1688 Jing Wang, Xiaoman Zhang, Weihong Xu, Liang Chen, Xingjiu Huang, and Jinhuai Liu Application and Development Trend of Gas Sensing Technology Based on Absorption Spectroscopy 1692 Zhenzhen Zhao, Fengchun Tian, and Shouqiong Liu Identification of Toxic VOC Pollutants Using FAIMS 1698 Youjiang Liu, Lehua Zhang, Hongwei Wang, Xiaotian Zhang, Chilai Chen Huanqin Wang, Deyi Kong, Mario A. Chavarria, and Juergen Brugger Detection of benzene series by two-dimensional  FAIMS technique 1702 Lehua Zhang, Youjiang Liu, Hongwei Wang, Chilai Chen, Huanqin Wang, Deyi Kong Xiaotian Zhang, Mario Chavarria, and Juergen Brugger Fabrication of Prototypal Nanomechanical Resonator Based on a Single Copper Nanowire 1706 Weihong Xu and Li-Feng Ge The SAW Gas Chromatograph and Its Applications in the Public Security 1710 Shitang He, Jiuling Liu, and Minghua Liu Theory of Lamb Wave Transducers and Their Applications for Gas and Liquid Sensing 1714 Li-Feng Ge Study of the Space Station On-Orbit Leak Detection Based on the Differential Pressure Gas Sensor 1718 Wei Sun, Rongxin Yan, Lichen Sun, Donghui Meng, Zheng Li, Haitao Guo, and Wenbin Li 
xxvi 


International Workshop on Human Body Communications and Biomedical Signal Processing \(HBC&BSP 2013 Pulse-Output Monitor Genetic Circuit of Breast Cancer Testing 1722 Xiang Wang, Guangqian Yuan, Xun Wang, and Zexi Zhao Elderly Gait Analysis and Assessment Based on Body Area Network 1729 Y.D.Xuan, Z. Zhao, Z. Fang, Z.H.Xu, F.M.Sun, D.L.Chen, L.D.Du, Y.M.Qian, H.Y.Hu and L.L.Tian Combined Motion and Region-Based 3D Tracking in Active Depth Image Sequence 1734 Xingyu Wu, Xia Mao, Lijiang Chen, and Angelo Compare Characteristic Optimization of Multilayer Dielectric for the Bloch-Surface-Wave Based Sensor 1740 Shuna Li, Jiansheng Liu, Zheng Zheng, Yuhang Wan, Weijing Kong, Sun Yu, and Shuna Li Facial Expression Recognition Based on t-SNE and AdaboostM2 1744 Jizheng Yi, Xia Mao, Yuli Xue, and Angelo Compare A Design of Security Module to Protect Program Execution in Embedded System 1750 Wang Xiang, Zhao Zexi, Lu Ying, and Zhang Yi Improved P-T Algorithm Applied to a Wearable Integrated Physiological Parameters System 1756 Z.H.Xu, Z. Fang, Z. Zhao, X.X.Chen, D.L.Chen, F.M.Sun, L.D.Du, Y.M.Qian, H.Y.Hui and L.L.Tian Iterative Threshold Selection for TOA Estimation of IR-UWB System 1763 Xiang Wang, Bo Yin, Ying Lu, Bin Xu, Pei Du, and Limin Xiao A Novel Alternative Exponent-Weighted Fuzzy C-Means Algorithm 1767 Renhao Fan, Xiang Wang, and Jordi Madrenas A Wireless ZigBee Router with P-H-T Sensing for Health Monitoring 1773 Z. Fang, F. M. Sun, J. Tan, and Z. Zhao A Whole Integrated System for Detection of Neural Signal and Wireless Transmission 1779 Dang Hua, Qu Ruoyuan, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, and Wang Xinghua Research on the Monitoring and Controlling Model of SIP Network 1784 Liang Zhang, Zhaoxin Zhang, Xu Cui, and Dan Liu Saliency-Based Feature Learning for No-Reference Image Quality Assessment 1790 Zhang Hong, Feng Ren, and Yuan Ding A Compensated Technique for 2.5-GHz Ring-Oscillator-Based PLL used in Wireless Transmission 1795 Dang Hua, Liu Zicheng, Gui Xiaoyan, and Zhong Shunan Speech Synthesis Research Based on EGG 1799 Lijiang Chen, Xia Mao, Pengfei Wei, and Angelo Compare A Temperature Insensitive Ring Oscillator for Low Power RF Communications 1804 Pilong Yang, Tongsheng Xia, Hongge Li, and Xiang Wang 
xxvii 


Low-Noise Biopotential Recording Circuit with Correlated Timeshare Sampling 1810 Hongge Li and Weidong Cao A No-Reference Quality Metric for Blur Image 1813 Zhang Taojia, Zhang Hong, and Yuan Ding Circuit Design of Analog Front-End for Neural Signal Detection 1817 Dang Hua, Zhang Lei, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, and Wang Xinghua A New Pedestrian Detect Method in Crowded Scenes 1820 Hou Xin, Zhang Hong, and Yuan Ding Design and Implementation of a Circuit System for Neural Signal Detection 1825 Dang Hua, Li Xiao, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, Wang Xinghua, and Zhong Shunan Design and Implementation of a CMOS 1Gsps 5bit Flash ADC with Offset Calibration 1829 Li Shiwen, Dang Hua, Gao Peng, Gui Xiaoyan, Chen Zhiming, Wang Xinghua and Zhong Shunan Spike Detection Based on Fractal Dimension 1834 Zhou Jiyang, Xu Shengwei, Lin Nansen, Wang Mixia, and Cai Xinxia A GPU-Accelerated Large-Scale Music Similarity Retrieval Method 1839 Limin Xiao, Yao Zheng, Wenqi Tang, Guangchao Yao, Li Ruan, and Xiang Wang Power Spectral Analysis of Acupoint Bioelectricity 1844 Quan Zhou, Nansen Lin, Shuping Gai, Jingjing Zhang, Lu Zhang, Wentao Shi Renhuan Yu, and Xinxia Caii Compressive Sensing of Neural Action Potentials by Designing Overcomplete Dictionaries 1848 Shuai Zhou, Bowei Dai, Yin Xiang, Shengwei Xu, Bingchen Zhang, Yilin Song Mixia Wang, and Xinxia Cai CloudDVMM: Distributed Virtual Machine Monitor for Cloud Computing 1853 Li Ruan, Jinbin Peng, Limin Xiao, and Xiang Wang Metadata-Intensive I/O Performance Optimization by Merging Read/Write Requests 1859 Li Ruan, Qimeng Wu, Limin Xiao, Ke Xie, and Xiang Wang International Workshop on Machine-to-Machine Communication \(IWMMC 2013 Angle of Arrival Estimation for Passive UHF RFID Tag Backscatter Signal 1865 Meng-Chang Hua, Guo-Chen Peng, Yan-Jun Lai, and Hsin-Chin Liu Mobile IMS Integration of the Internet of Things in Ecosystem 1870 Han-Chuan Hsieh, Jiann-Liang Chen, Ing-Yi Chen, and Sy-Yen Kuo Design of Gateway for Monitoring System in IoT Networks 1876 Ji-De Huang and Han-Chuan Hsieh Dependable Architecture of RFID Middleware on Networked RFID Systems 1881 Yung-Li Hu, Wei-Bing Su, Yennun Huang, Ing-Yi Chen, and Sy-Yen Kuo 
xxviii 


The Design and Implementation of the Front-End Software for the Telemetry and Telecontrol System of Satellite 1885 Zhao Qi and Ma Li Internet of Things for Special Materials Transportation Vehicles 1891 Li Shengguang, Tan Lin, Zhu Yuanshuo, and Zhang Rucai Performance Analysis of COMPASS for the Asia-Pacific Region 1895 Hangyu Huo, Xiaolin Zhang, and Canhui Chen International Workshop on Localization Technology and Location-Based Services \(LTLS 2013 A KNN Indoor Positioning Algorithm That Is Weighted by the Membership of Fuzzy Set 1899 Jiankun Yu and Jianye Liu Building Location-Based Service Based on Social Network API: An Example of Check-In App 1904 Pin-Fan Lee and Shuchih Ernest Chang Prioritizing the Data in the Target-Tracking Wireless Sensor Networks 1910 Dan Xu, Xiaojiang Chen, Xiaoyan Yin, Lvju Wang, Hao Chen, Yuan Zhang, and Dingyi Fang DLF: Target Detection and Localization in Wireless Network 1916 Tianzhang Xing, Dingyi Fang, Xiaojiang Chen, Liqiong Chang, and Yuhui Ren Bandwidth Reservation for Target Tracking in Region-Base Wireless Sensor Networks 1922 Xiaoyan Yin, Dingyi Fang, Xiaojiang Chen, Hao Chen, and Wei Wei Fusion Estimation Based on UKF for Indoor RFID Tracking 1928 Xue-bo Jin International Workshop on New Media and Computer Vision for Smart City \(NMCV4SC 2013 Facile Analysis of Smartphone Comics 1932 Beili Qiu Research on Production of Regional Animation Style Based on Computer Graphic Rendering 1935 Jingjing Chen, Yi Lin, Kexuan Ma, and Yue Liu A Blind Demodulation Algorithm for MFSK Signals Using STFT-Radon-Wavelet Transform 1940 Zhang Guoyi, Qi Xinglong, Zhang Xuzhou, and Lin Caiyong A Novel Method to Remove Eye-Blink Artifacts Based on Correlation Using ICA 1946 Hengsong Sheng and Hongjun Tian Virtual Assembly, Maintenance and Training System Based on the Virtual - Real Fusion Technology 1949 Ning Wang and Yue Qi 
xxix 


International Workshop on Optical Characteristics and Applications \(OC&A 2013 A New Infrared Sensor Model Based on Imaging System Test Parameter 1953 Zheng Liu, Hong-xia Mao, Ying-hong Dai, and Jing-li Wu Mixed Norm-Based Image Restoration Using Neural Network 1957 Yuan-nan Xu, Jing Wang, and Yan-bing Dong Simulation and Analysis of Turbulent Optical Wavefront Based on Zernike Polynomials 1962 Yan Chen, Shu-hua Wang, Yuan-nan Xu, and Yan-bing Dong Study on the Interaction of Optical Field and Transverse Acoustic Mode in Silicon Optical Fibers 1967 Jing Wang, Yuan-nan Xu, and Yan-bing Dong Testing Technology of Infrared Point Source Target Optical Axis 1972 Yue Peng and Hao Lu Human Segmentation in Infrared Videos Using Markov Random Field 1976 Wenjia Yang, Xiaodan Xie, Zhi Chai, and Yapeng Li Third IEEE International Workshop on Sensing, Networking and Computing with Smartphones \(PhoneCom 2013 SmartProbe: A Bottleneck Capacity Estimation Tool for Smartphones 1980 Francesco Disperati, Dario Grassini, Enrico Gregori, Alessandro Improta Luciano Lenzini, Davide Pellegrino, and Nilo Redini CANDIS: Heterogenous Mobile Cloud Framework and Energy Cost-Aware Scheduling 1986 Sebastian Schildt, Felix B¸sching, Enrico Jˆrns, and Lars Wolf An Experimental Study on Wireless Magnetic Communication with Smart Phone Using a MEMS Magnetometer 1992 Jiabo Wang and Xi Chen PhoneJoule: An Energy Management System for Android-Based Smartphones 1996 Xiaojing Liu, Fangwei Ding, Jie Li, Haifeng Liu, Zhuo Yang, Juan Chen, and Feng Xia KeyGraph-Based Social Network Generation for Mobile Context Sharing 2002 Myeong-Chun Lee, Young-Seol Lee, and Sung-Bae Cho Cyber-physical Directory: A Dynamic Visualization of Social Media Data 2007 Jean-Loup Lamothe, James She, and Ming Cheung 
xxx 


International Workshop on Sensor Data Processing and Integration \(SDPI 2013 Capturing, Calculating, and Disseminating Real-Time CO2 Emissions and CO2 Flux Measurements via Twitter in a Smart City 2013 Laurie Butgereit and Alecia Nickless Freshness-Aware Sensor Mashups Based on Data Services 2018 Guiling Wang and Feng Zhang A Method of Sensor Data Services Query in Emergency Management 2024 Xin Chen, Yanbo Han, Yongshan Wei, Feng Zhang, and Yan Wen A Sensory-Data-Hosting Oriented Scheduling Strategy on Virtual Machine 2029 Xiang Li and Yong Jiang International Workshop on Software Engineering for Internet of Things-Based Applications \(SeIoTA 2013 From the Internet of Things to Trusted Apps for Things 2037 Christian Prehofer A Profile for Step Data Transmission Based on Bluetooth Low Energy 2043 Youcong Ni, Sun Cong, Zhao Ting, Peng Ye, Chunyan Wang, and Luo Zeng Exception Handling in Service-Oriented Software: A Survey 2048 Xue Tong, Ying Shi, and Wu Qing On the Application of the Internet of Things in the Field of Medical and Health Care 2053 Fang Hu, Dan Xie, and Shaowu Shen Hierarchical RBAC Model with Alpha Factor in the Water Supply Pipeline Network Information System 2059 Wu Ting, Yuan Tianliang, and Yu Long Modeling Concern of Online Auction System with SA-CDL 2063 Linlin Zhang, Kai Zhao, Zhenhong Jia, and Youcong Ni The Research on Interactive Exhibition Technology of Digital Museum Resources 2067 Ning Wang and Xukun Shen International Workshop on Sensor Networks and Data Communications Security \(SNDCS 2013 Integrity Protection and Attestation of Security Critical Executions on Virtualized Platform in Cloud Computing Environment 2071 Bingyu Zou and Huanguo Zhang A Fuzzing Framework Based on Symbolic Execution and Combinatorial Testing 2076 Jian Yang, Huanguo Zhang, and Jianming Fu Dynamic Knowledge Repository-Based Security Auxiliary System of User Behavior 2081 Fan Yang, Jinxia Wu, Shanyu Tang, and Huanguo Zhang 
xxxi 


Research on a New Mathematic Description for Fingerprint Identification 2085 Zhao Ma, Shanyu Tang, Liping Zhang, Linchen Yu, and Sifa Zhang Robust and Efficient Authentication Protocol Based on Elliptic Curve Cryptography for Smart Grids 2089 Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, Yijing Jiang, and Zhao Ma De Bruijn Graph-Based Whole-Genomic Sequence Assembly Algorithms and Applications 2094 Xiaojun Kang, Shanyu Tang, Yongge Ma, Ruixiang Liu, and Yaping Wang Review of Digital Watermarking for 2D-Vector Map 2098 Jinxia Wu, Fan Yang, and Chonglong Wu Real-Time Covert VoIP Communications over Smart Grids by Using AES-Based Audio Steganography 2102 Yijing Jiang, Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, and Zhangbing Zhou Improving Performance of E-Government System from the User Perspective 2108 Hang Zhang, Sifa Zhang, Muzhou Xiong, and Shanyu Tang ECC-Based Authenticated Key Agreement Protocol with Privacy Protection for VoIP Communications 2114 Shaohui Zhu, Fan Yang, Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, and J. Li Establishment of Security Levels in Trusted Cloud Computing Platforms 2119 Fan Yang, Li Pan, Muzhou Xiong, and Shanyu Tang Efficient Divisible E-Cash in the Standard Model 2123 Jiangxiao Zhang, Zhoujun Li, Hua Guo, and Chang Xu International Workshop on Secure Smart Objects \(SSO 2013 Towards a Modular and Lightweight Model for Android Development Platforms 2129 Mussab Zneika, Hasan Loulou, Fatiha Houacine, and Samia Bouzefrane Towards a Secure Identity Management in Smartphone Environments 2133 Maryline Laurent, Samia Bouzefrane, and Christophe Kiennert Third International Workshop on Trends and Future of Web Science \(TFWS 2013 Extracting Protein Terminologies in Literatures 2136 Jangwon Gim, Donald J. Kim, Myunggwon Hwang, Sa-kwang Song, Do-Heon Jeong and Hanmin Jung Author Name Disambiguation in Technology Trend Analysis Using SVM and Random Forests and Novel Topic Based Features 2141 Sebastian Kastner, Sung-Pil Choi, and Hanmin Jung Research on Quantum-Bit Error Correction Coding for Smart Grid Substation 2145 Xin Miao and Xi Chen 
xxxii 


Fourth International Workshop on Universal User Modeling and Applications \(UUMA 2013 The Research of MEICSP Model through a REST Web Service 2148 Zhilei Huang, Lingyu Xu, and Yang Liu A Text Association Rules Mining Method Based on Concept Algebra 2153 Feiyue Ye, Jiannan Xiong, and Lingyu Xu Research and Application of the Intelligent Flow 2159 Yang Liu, Lingyu Xu, Liang Chen, and Fei Zhong Application of Hybrid MPI+TBB Parallel Programming Model for Traveling Salesman Problem 2164 Jinke Zhu and Qing Li Data Deduplication Cluster Based on Similarity-Locality Approach 2168 Xingyu Zhang and Jian Zhang The Application of the Knowledge Representation Based on Concept Algebra in the Knowledge Management System of Petroleum Enterprise 2173 Hongjie Duan, Shanpeng Wu, and Feiyue Ye A New Reliable Hybrid Algorithm for Shortening the Expanding Range of Interval 2178 Cheng Chen and Yongmei Lei A Novel Data Encryption in HDFS 2183 Thanh Cuong Nguyen, Wenfeng Shen, Jiwei Jiang, and Weimin Xu The Dynamically Efficient Mechanism of HDFS Data Prefetching 2188 Shaochun Wu, Guobing Zou, Honghao Zhu, Xiang Shuai, Liang Chen, and Bofeng Zhang Multi-granularity Recommendation Based on Ontology User Model 2194 Jianxing Zheng, Bofeng Zhang, and Guobing Zou Friend Recommendation Based on the Similarity of Micro-blog User Model 2200 Fan Tang, Bofeng Zhang, Jianxing Zheng, and Yajun Gu The Research of Image Detail Enhancement Algorithm with Laplacian Pyramid 2205 Yanwen Teng, Fuyan Liu, and Ruoyu Wu Information Gain with Weight Based Decision Tree for the Employment Forecasting of Undergraduates 2210 Yue Liu, Lingjie Hu, Fei Yan, and Bofeng Zhang A User Model-Based Resource Scheduling Framework 2214 Guannan Hu, Wenhao Zhu, Kangkang Niu, and Wu Zhang A Novel Method of Adopting Graph Reduction for Resource Management in Parallel Computing Model 2218 Shen Chao and Tong Weiqin Sentiment Classification for Topical Chinese Microblog Based on Sentences' Relations 2221 Kang Wu, Bofeng Zhang, Jianxing Zheng, and Haidong Yao An Anomaly Intrusion Detection Method Based on PageRank Algorithm 2226 Quan Qian, Jianyu Li, Jing Cai, Rui Zhang, and Mingjun Xin 
xxxiii 


Distributed File System and Classification for Small Images 2231 Shaojian Zhuo, Xing Wu, Wu Zhang, Xing Wu, and Wanchun Dou The Possibility of Normal Gait Analysis Based on a Smart Phone for Healthcare 2235 Susu Jiang, Bofeng Zhang, Guobing Zou, and Daming Wei IoT/CPS Demo and Exhibition Mo-Fi: Discovering Human Presence Activity with Smartphones using Non-intrusive Wi-Fi Monitors 2241 Weijun Qin, Hongsong Zhu, Jiadi Zhang, and Bo Li Towards a Pervasive Cloud Computing Based Food Image Recognition 2243 Wenshan Wang, Pengcheng Duan, Weishan Zhang, Faming Gong, Peiying Zhang and Yuan Rao Wireless IoT Platform Based on SDR Technology 2245 Yong Hua Lin, Qing Wang, Jun Song Wang, Ling Shao, and Jianbin Tang Join the Workshop Better with Telepresence Capturer 2247 Pin Tao, Lixin Feng, and Minxi Yu InSciTe Adaptive: R&D Decision Support System for Strategic Foresight 2249 Jangwon Gim, Do-Heon Jeong, Myunggwon Hwang, Sung-Pil Choi, Donald J. Kim Seungwoo Lee, Sa-kwang Song, and Hanmin Jung Author Index 2251 
xxxiv 


FrA6 \226 Privacy and Big Data Visitor Center   Chair Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duchi, John University of California, Berkeley  Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates 1592  Duchi, John C University of California, Berkeley  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Wainwright, Martin J University of California, Berkeley  Differential Privacy, Equilibrium, and Efficient Allocation of Resources 1593  Roth, Aaron University of Pennsylvania  A Bayesian Method for Matching Tw o Similar Graphs without Seeds 1598  Pedarsani, Pedram 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Figueiredo, Daniel R Federal University of Rio de Janeiro  Grossglauser, Matthias 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Privacy as a Coordination Game 1608  Ghosh, Arpita Cornell University  Ligett, Katrina California Institute of Technology  De-Anonymizing Private Data by Matching Statistics 1616  Unnikrishnan, Jayakrishnan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Movahedi Naini, Farid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Robust Subspace Iteration and Privacy-Preserving Spectral Analysis 1624  Hardt, Moritz IBM Research Almaden  Privacy-Utility Tradeoff und er Statistical Uncertainty 1627  Makhdoumi, Ali Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Fawaz, Nadia Technicolor   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a ìkey, valueî list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of ìkey, valueî pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


