2011 IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems June 27-30, 2011, Taipei, Taiwan 978-1-4244-7317-5/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE   A Multiple-Level Genetic-Fuzzy Mining Algorithm Chun-Hao Chen Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering Tamkang University Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C chchen@mail.tku.edu.tw Tzung-Pei Hong Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering National University of Kaohsiung Kaohsiung, Taiwan, R.O.C tphong@nuk.edu.tw Yeong-Chyi Lee Department of Information Management Cheng Shiu University Kaohsiung, Taiwan, R. O. C yeongchyi@csu.edu.tw   Abstract In this paper, we propose a multiple-level genetic-fuzzy mining algorithm for mining membership functions and fuzzy 
association rule on multiple-concept levels. It first encodes the membership functions of each item class \(category\ into a chromosome according to the given taxonomy. The fitness value of each individual is then evaluated by the summation of large 1itemsets of each item in different concept levels and the suitability of membership functions in the chromosome. After the GA process terminates, a better set of multiple-level fuzzy association rules can then be expected with a more suitable set of membership functions. Experimental results on a simulation dataset also show the effectiveness of the algorithm Keywords data mining, genetic algorithm, multiple-concept levels, membership function, fuzzy association rule 
I   I NTRODUCTION  Data mining is most commonly used in attempts to induce association rules from transaction data [2 A n  as s o ci ati on r u le  is an expression X Y where X and Y are a set of items. It means in the set of transactions, if all the items in X exist in a transaction, then Y is also in the transaction with a high probability. A variety of mining approaches based on the Apriori algorithm [2 ha ve a l s o be e n  pr opo sed   4   21  However, most of them are focus on finding association rules on a single-concept level. Thus, many approaches have also been proposed for mining multiple-concept-level association rules to discovery more specific and important knowledge from 
data [8, 22 Most of the mentioned approaches above focused on binary valued transaction data. Transaction data in real-world applications usually consist of quantitative values. Thus, fuzzy data mining algorithms have been proposed for handling quantitative transactions and mining fuzzy association rules [5 11, 17, 24  A s t o m u ltip l e c o n c e p t l e v e ls f u zzy m i n i n g   according to the given fuzzy generalization hierarchies, Lee first proposed a generalized fuzzy quantitative association rules mining algorithm [1  I n  200 3, Ho ng e t al t h e n  pro po s e d  a  multiple-level fuzzy association rule mining approach [12  It  first transforms quantitative transactions into fuzzy values by using the predefined membership functions and taxonomy Then, a top-down progressively deepening approach is used to 
finding large itemsets and rules. Additionally, in order to reduce the time complexity, only the linguistic term with the maximum cardinality of each item is used in later mining processes. In [1  Kay a et a l  p r op os ed a w e ig h t f u zzy r u le mining approach based on Hongês approach. In 2008, Lee et al proposed a fuzzy mining algorithm for discovering generalized fuzzy association rules with multiple supports of items for extracting implicit knowledge from quantitative transaction data [18, 19    Those mentioned approaches assumed the membership functions to be known in advance. The given membership functions may, however, have a critical influence on the final mining results. In recent years, the Genetic-Fuzzy Mining GFM\oaches have then proposed for deriving appropriate 
membership functions and mining fuzzy association rules [3, 6 10, 13, 15 Ka y a  et al proposed a GA-based approach to derive a predefined number of membership functions for getting a maximum profit within a user specified interval of minimum supports [13  H o ng  et al also proposed a geneticfuzzy data-mining algorithm for extracting both association rules and membership functions from quantitative transactions 10  A l cal Fd ez et al then modified Hongês approach to propose an enhanced approach based on the 2-tuples linguistic representation model [3  Besid es m u ltio b j e c tiv e g e n e t i cfuzzy mining approaches have also been proposed [6, 15    However, those mentioned GFM algorithms are focus on one single-concept level. To the best of our knowledge, there is 
no GFM algorithm for multiple-concept levels until now. In this paper, we thus propose a multiple-level GFM algorithm for mining membership functions and fuzzy association rule on multiple-concept levels. According to the given taxonomy, it first encodes membership functions of each item class category\ into chromosome. The fitness value of each individual is then evaluated by the summation of large 1itemsets of each item in different concept levels and the suitability of membership functions in the chromosome. After the GA process terminates, a better set of multiple-level fuzzy association rules can then be expected with a more suitable set of membership functions II  A  M ULTIPLE L EVEL G 
ENETIC F UZZY M INING F RAMEWORK  In this section, the fuzzy and GA concepts are used to discover both useful association rules and suitable membership functions from quantitative values. We propose a Multiplelevel Genetic-Fuzzy Mining \(Multiple-level GFM\ framework for searching membership functions suitable for multiple-level mining problems and then use the final best set of membership functions to mine multiple-level fuzzy association rules. The proposed framework is shown in Figure 1 278 


     linguistic terms  MF Acquisition process Genetic Fuzzy Fuzzy Mining for Large 1-itemsets Final  Membership Function Set Minimum support Minimum confidence  Transaction Database Population Fuzzy Mining Fuzzy Association Rules  Mining Membership Functions Mining Fuzzy Association Rules  Taxonomy Item Category 1 Item Category 2 Item Category 3 Item Category n  Food Fruit Bread Apples Oranges OldMills Wonder Drinks Beverages Alcohol juice soda-water burgundy brandy  Chromosome 1 Membership Function Set 1 Membership Function Set 2 Membership Function Set q Membership Function Set 3 Chromosome 2 Chromosome 3 Chromosome q  Transaction Database linguistic terms MF Acquisition process Genetic Fuzzy MF Acquisition process Genetic Fuzzy Fuzzy Mining for Large 1-itemsets Fuzzy Mining for Large 1-itemsets Final  Membership Function Set Final  Membership Function Set Minimum support Minimum confidence  Transaction Database Transaction Database Population Fuzzy Mining Fuzzy Association Rules Fuzzy Association Rules  Mining Membership Functions Mining Fuzzy Association Rules  Taxonomy Item Category 1 Item Category 2 Item Category 3 Item Category n  Food Fruit Bread Apples Oranges OldMills Wonder Food Fruit Bread Apples Oranges OldMills Wonder Drinks Beverages Alcohol juice soda-water burgundy brandy Drinks Beverages Alcohol juice soda-water burgundy brandy  Chromosome 1 Membership Function Set 1 Membership Function Set 1 Membership Function Set 2 Membership Function Set 2 Membership Function Set q Membership Function Set q Membership Function Set 3 Membership Function Set 3 Chromosome 2 Chromosome 3 Chromosome q  Transaction Database Transaction Database  Figure 1  The Multiple-level GFM framework The proposed framework consists of two phases, namely mining membership functions and mining fuzzy association rules phases. It maintains a population of sets of membership functions, and uses the genetic algorithm to automatically derive the resulting one. In the first phase, according to the given taxonomy, it first transforms each set of membership functions of each item category into a fixed-length string. It then chooses appropriate strings for mating, gradually creating good offspring membership function sets. The offspring membership function sets then undergo recursive evolution until a good set of membership functions has been obtained. In second phase, the derived membership functions are then used to mine multiple-level fuzzy association rules by using rule mining approach [12 III  C OMPONENTS OF THE P ROPOSED A PPROACHES  In this section, the components of the proposed approach for deriving membership functions and fuzzy association rule on multiple-concept levels are stated. The details of them are described below A  Chromosome Representation It is important to encode membership functions as string representation for GAs to be applied. Several possible encoding approaches have been described in [1, 3, 7, 20  I n t h i s  paper, each set of membership functions is encoded as a chromosome and handled as an individual with real-number schema. In order to effectively encode the associated membership functions, we use two parameters to represent each membership function as Parodi and Bonelli did [2   Thus, in multiple-level fuzzy rule mining, membership functions applied to an item class \(category\re then assumed to be isosceles-triangle functions as shown in Figure 2 c j1 w i1 Membership value 1 R j1 Quantity R jk R jl c jk w ik c jl w il c j1 c j1 w i1 w i1 Membership value 1 R j1 Quantity R jk R jl c jk c jk w ik w ik c jl c jl w il w il  Figure 2  Membership Functions of item class IC j  where R jk denotes the membership function of the k th linguistic term of item class  IC j  c jk indicates the center abscissa of fuzzy region R jk and w jk represents half the spread of fuzzy region R jk As Parodi and Bonelli did, we then represent each membership function as a pair c  w Thus, all pairs of c  w s for a certain item class are concatenated to represent its membership functions. Thus the set of membership functions MF 1 for the first item class IC 1 is then represented as a substring of c 11 w 11  c 1|IC1 w 1|IC1 where IC 1 is the number of linguistic terms of IC 1  The entire set of membership functions is then encoded by concatenating substrings of MF 1  MF 2  MF j Since c and w  are both numeric values, a chromosome is thus encoded as a fixed-length real-number string rather than a bit string B  Fitness and Selection In order to develop a good set of membership functions from an initial population, the genetic algorithm selects parent  membership function sets with high fitness values for mating An evaluation function is then used to qualify the derived membership function sets. The performance of membership function sets is then fed back to the genetic algorithm to control how the solution space is searched to promote the quality of the membership functions. In this paper, we thus propose an evaluation function according to the one used in our previous approach [1 as s h ow n bel ow          1 1 q levels k k q q C y suitabilit L C f    where the   1 k q L is the number of large 1-itemsets in level k of chromosome C q 1   k    levels and the suitability  C q s used in the fitness function can reduce the occurrence of the two bad kinds of membership functions, where the first one is too redundant, and the second one is too separate. The suitability of the membership functions in a chromosome C q is thus defined as   _   _    1 qj qj m j q C factor coverage C factor overlap C y suitabilit     where the overlap factor of the membership functions for an item class IC j  in the chromosome C q is defined as    i k ji jk ji jk qj w w R R overlap C factor overlap  1  1    min    max   _  279 


     where the overlap ratio overlap  R jk  R ji of two membership functions R jk and R ji is defined as the overlap length divided by half the minimum span of the two functions. If the overlap length is larger than half the span, then these two membership functions are thought of as a little redundant. Appropriate punishment must then be considered in this case The coverage ratio of a set of membership functions for an item class IC j  is defined as the coverage range of the functions divided by the average value of maximum quantity in each level of that item class in the transactions. The larger the coverage ratio is, the better the derived membership functions are. Thus, the coverage factor of the membership functions for an item class IC j  in the chromosome C q is defined as        1   1 j jl j qj IC avgmax R R range C _factor coverage   where range  R j1  R j2  R jl is the coverage range of the membership functions l is the number of membership functions for IC j and avg Max\(IC j  is the average value of maximum quantity in each level of that item class in the transactions. Note that the overlap factor is designed for avoiding the first bad case çtoo redundanté, and the coverage factor is for the second one çtoo separate C  Genetic Operators Genetic operators are very important to the success of specific GA applications. Two genetic operators, the max-minarithmetical \(MMA\ crossover proposed in [9  a nd t h e onepoint  mutation are used in the genetic fuzzy mining framework. In the max-min-arithmetical \(MMA crossover operator, it will generate the following four candidate chromosomes from the given two chromosomes. Then, the best two chromosomes of the four candidates are then chosen as the offspring The one-point mutation operator will create a new fuzzy membership function by adding a random value  for example  w jk to the center or to the spread of an existing linguistic term, say R jk Assume that c and w represent the center and the spread of R jk The center or the spread of the newly derived membership function will be changed to c   or w  by the mutation operation. Mutation at the center of a fuzzy membership function may however disrupt the order of the resulting fuzzy membership functions. These fuzzy membership functions then need rearrangement according to their center values IV  T HE P ROPOSED M ULTIPLE L EVEL G ENETIC F UZZY M INING A LGORITHM  According to the above description, the proposed multilevel genetic-fuzzy data mining algorithm for mining both membership functions and fuzzy association rules is described below The proposed multiple-level GFM algorithm INPUT: A body of n quantitative transaction data, a set of m  items, each with a number of linguistic terms, codes of item names, a predefined taxonomy, a support threshold  and a confidence threshold   OUTPUT: A set of multiple-level fuzzy association rules with its associated set of membership functions STEP 1: Encode the predefined taxonomy using a sequence of numbers and the symbol ç*é, with the t th number represents the branch number of a certain item on level t  STEP 2: Translate the item names in the transaction data according to the encoding scheme STEP 3: Find levelk representation of the transaction data using following substeps SUBSTEP 3.1: Set k 1, where k is used to store the level number being processed SUBSTEP 3.2: Group the items with the same first k  digits in each transaction datum D i where 1   i   n Denote the j th group on level k in transaction D i as v k ij   SUBSTEP 3.3: If levelk representation is not null, set k  k 1 and go to SUBSTEP 3.2; otherwise, go to next step STEP 4: Randomly generate a population of P individuals each individual is a set of membership functions for items in level-1 classes of the taxonomy STEP 5: Encode each set of membership functions into a string representation STEP 6: Calculate the fitness value of each chromosome by the following substeps SUBSTEP 6.1: Set k 1, where k is used to store the level number being processed SUBSTEP 6.2: Transform the quantitative value v k ij of each transaction datum D i  i 1 to n or each encoded group name I j k into a fuzzy set f ij k  represented as    k jh k ijh k j k ij k j k ij R f R f R f   2   2 1   1   using the corresponding membership functions represented by the chromosome, where R k jl is the l th fuzzy region of item I j k 1   l   h f ij k  is v k ij s fuzzy membership value in region R k jl and l  I j k is the number of linguistic terms for I j k  SUBSTEP 6.3: Calculate the scalar cardinality of each fuzzy region R k jl in the transactions as follows   n i k ijl k jl f count 1  SUBSTEP 6.4: Check whether the value of each fuzzy region R k jl is larger than or equal to the predefined minimum support value  If the value of a fuzzy region R k jl is equal to or greater than the minimum support value, put it in the large 1-itemsets L 1 k t level k That is L 1 k  R jl k  count jl k     1   j   m k 1   l   h SUBSTEP 6.5: If levelk representation is not null, set k  k 1 and go to SUBSTEP 6.1; otherwise, go to next step 280 


     STEP 7: Set the fitness value of the chromosome as the summation of the number of large 1-itemsets in L 1 k for all levels divides by its suitability suitability  C q  as follows        1 1 q levels k k q C y suitabilit L C f    STEP 8: Execute crossover operations on the population STEP 9: Execute mutation operations on the population STEP 10: Using the selection criteria to choose individuals for the next generation STEP 11: If the termination criterion is not satisfied, go to Step 6; otherwise, do the next step STEP 12: Output the set of membership functions with the highest fitness value The set of membership functions are then used to mine multiple-level fuzzy association rules from the given transactions. The multiple-level fuzzy mining algorithm proposed in th en adopted to ach iev e th i s pu rpos e V  E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS  In this section, experiments made to show the performance of the proposed approach are described. They were implemented in Java on a personal computer with Intel Core i5 CUP 661 @ 3.33GHz and 1.8GB RAM. And, 10000 transactions were used in the experiments. The initial population size P was set at 50, the crossover rate p c was set at 0.8, and the mutation rate p m was set at 0.001. The parameter d  of the crossover operator was set at 0.35 according to [9 n d  the minimum support   was set at 0.04 \(4 There were 64 purchased items \(terminal nodes\n level 3 16 generalized items on level 2, and 4 generalized items on level 1. Each non-terminal node had four branches. Only the terminal nodes could appear in transactions. Data sets with different numbers of transactions were run by the proposed algorithm. In the data set, numbers of purchased items in transactions were first randomly generated. The purchased items and their quantities in each transaction were then generated. An item could not be generated twice in a transaction After 500 generations, the final membership functions are apparently much better than the original ones. For example, the initial membership functions of four item classes are shown in Figure 3 Quantity Item Classe 1 3 9 Low Middle High 0 2     2 1 2  3 Quantity  Item Classe 2 3 9 Low Middle High 0 1   3 1 1  2  Quantity Item Classe 4 24 Low Middle High 0 1   1 1 1  2  Quantity Item Classe 3 3 12 Low Middle High 0 1   5 1 1  1  Quantity Item Classe 1 3 9 Low Middle High 0 2     2 1 2  3 Quantity  Item Classe 2 3 9 Low Middle High 0 1   3 1 1  2  Quantity Item Classe 4 24 Low Middle High 0 1   1 1 1  2  Quantity Item Classe 3 3 12 Low Middle High 0 1   5 1 1  1   Figure 3  The initial membership functions of four item classes In Figure 3, the membership functions have the two bad types of shapes according to the definition in the previous section. The membership functions of Item Class 1 Item Class 2  and Item Class 3 are çtoo separateé. The membership functions of Item Class 1 and Item Class 4 are çtoo redundanté. After 500 generations, the final membership functions for the four item classes are shown in Figure 4 Quantity Item Classe 1 9.50 Low Middle High 0 2.04   3.28 1 2.03 Quantity Item Classe 2 5.41 Low Middle High 0 1.16 1.83 1 1.10   Quantity Item Classe 4 Low Middle High 0 1.11 1 1.10 Quantity Item Classe 3 9.99 Low Middle High 0 1.82   4.43 1 1.82     5.80 3.05   2.98 1.56   4.52 2.71     2.57 1.43   4.06 1.48 Quantity Item Classe 1 9.50 Low Middle High 0 2.04   3.28 1 2.03 Quantity Item Classe 2 5.41 Low Middle High 0 1.16 1.83 1 1.10   Quantity Item Classe 4 Low Middle High 0 1.11 1 1.10 Quantity Item Classe 3 9.99 Low Middle High 0 1.82   4.43 1 1.82     5.80 3.05   2.98 1.56   4.52 2.71     2.57 1.43   4.06 1.48  Figure 4  The final membership functions of four item classes after 500 generations It is easily seen that the membership functions in Figure 4 is better than those in Figure 3. The two bad kinds of membership functions didnêt appear in the final results. Then, the five runs average value of average fitness values of the chromosomes along with different numbers of generations are shown in Figure 5     Figure 5  The five runs average values of average fitness values along with different numbers of generations From Figure 5, we can observe that the curve gradually goes upward, finally converging to a certain value VI  C ONCLUSION A ND F UTURE W ORKS  In this paper, we first propose a Multiple-level GeneticFuzzy Mining \(Multiple-level GFM\ framework for searching membership functions suitable for multiple-level mining problems and then use the final best set of membership functions to mine multiple-level fuzzy association rules. Then a Multiple-level GFM algorithm is proposed. Experiments on a simulation dataset were also made to show the effectiveness and stableness of the proposed approach. The main contribution of this work is that the proposed algorithm is the first work for mining both membership functions and fuzzy association rules on multiple-concept levels. However, the 281 


     proposed approach is just a beginning. In the future, we will continuously to enhance the Multiple-level GFM framework for more complex problems A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This research was supported by the National Science Council of the Republic of China under contract NSC 99-2218E-032 -005  R EFERENCES  1  R.Alcala, J.Alcala-Fdez, F.Herrera, çAproposal for the genetic lateral tuning of linguistic fuzzy systems and its interaction with rule selection IEEE Transaction on Fuzzy Systems Vol. 15, No. 4, pp. 616-635, 2007 2  R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, çFast algorithm for mining association rules The International Conference on Very Large Databases pp. 487499, 1994 3  J. Alcala-Fdez, R. Alcala, M. J. Gacto, F. Herrera, "Learning the membership function contexts for mining fuzzy association rules by using genetic algorithms Fuzzy Sets and Systems Vol. 160, No. 7, pp 905-921, 2009 4  S. Brin, R. Motwani, J. D. Ullman and S. Tsur, çDynamic itemset counting and implication rules for market-basket data,é ACM-SIGMOD International Conference in Management of Data, pp. 207-216, 1997 5  C. H. Cai, W. C. Fu, C. H. Cheng and W. W. Kwong, çMining association rules with weighted items The International Database Engineering and Applications Symposium pp. 68-77  1998 6  C. H. Chen, T. P. Hong, Vincent S. Tseng, çA SPEA2-based geneticfuzzy mining algorithm The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems 2010 7  O. CordÛn, F. Herrera, and P. Villar, çGenerating the knowledge base of a fuzzy rule-based system by the genetic learning of the data base IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems Vol. 9, No. 4, 2001 8  J. Han and Y. Fu, çDiscovery of multiple-level association rules from large databases,é The International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, pp. 420-431, 1995 9  F. Herrera, M. Lozano and J. L. Verdegay, çFuzzy connectives based crossover operators to model genetic algorithms population diversity Fuzzy Sets and Systems Vol. 92, No. 1, pp. 21Ö30, 1997   T. P. Hong, C. H. Chen, Y. L. Wu and Y. C. Lee, "A GA-based fuzzy mining approach to achieve a trade-off between number of rules and suitability of membership functions Soft Computing Vol. 10, No. 11 pp. 1091-1101. 2006    T. P. Hong, C. S. Kuo and S. C. Chi, "Mining association rules from quantitative data Intelligent Data Analysis Vol. 3, No. 5, pp. 363-376 1999   T. P. Hong, K. Y. Lin, B. C. Chien, "Mining Fuzzy Multiple-Level Association Rules from Quantitative Data Applied Intelligence Vol 18, No. 1, pp. 79-90, 2003   M. Kaya, R. Alhajj, "Genetic algorithm based framework for mining fuzzy association rules Fuzzy Sets and Systems Vol. 152, No. 3, pp 587-601, 2005   M. Kaya, R. Alhajj, "Effective Mining of Fuzzy Multi-Cross-Level Weighted Association Rules Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol 4203, pp. 399-408, 2006   M. Kaya, R. Alhajj, "Utilizing Genetic Algorithms to Optimize Membership Functions for Fuzzy Weighted Association Rules Mining Applied Intelligence Vol. 24, No. 1, pp. 7-15, 2006   K. M. Lee, "Mining generalized fuzzy quantitative association rules with fuzzy generalization hierarchies IFSA World Congress and 20th NAFIPS International Conference Vol. 5, pp. 2977-2982, 2001   Y. C. Lee, T. P. Hong and W. Y. Lin, "Mining fuzzy association rules with multiple minimum supports using maximum constraints Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol. 3214, pp. 1283-1290, 2004   Y. C. Lee, T. P. Hong, T. C. Wang, "Mining Multiple-Level Association Rules Under the Maximum Constraint of Multiple Minimum Supports  IEA/AIE pp. 1329-1338, 2006   Y. C. Lee, T. P. Hong, T. C. Wang, "Multi-level fuzzy mining with multiple minimum supports Expert Systems with Applications Vol. 34 No. 1, pp. 459-468, 2008   A. Parodi and P. Bonelli, "A new approach of fuzzy classifier systems Proceedings of Fifth International Conference on Genetic Algorithms  Morgan Kaufmann, Los Altos, CA, pp. 223-230, 1993   A. Savasere, E. Omiecinski and S. Navathe, çAn efficient algorithm for mining association rules in large databases,é The International Conference in Very Large Data Bases, pp. 432-443, 1995   R. Srikant and R. Agrawal, çMining generalized association rules,é The International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, pp. 407-419, 1995   C. H. Wang, T. P. Hong and S. S. Tseng, çIntegrating membership functions and fuzzy rule sets from multiple knowledge sources Fuzzy Sets and Systems Vol. 112, pp. 141-154, 2000   S. Yue, E. Tsang, D. Yeung and D. Shi, çMining fuzzy association rules with weighted items The IEEE International Conference on Systems Man and Cybernetics pp. 1906-1911  2000   J. S. Park, M. S. Chen and P. S. Yu, çAn Effective hash-based algorithm for mining association rules,é The ACM-SIGMOD International Conference in Management of Data, pp. 175-186, 1995  282 


1350  not work in particular regions. Power systems as well as water supply systems are im portant components of the lifeline systems, which are directly related to the normal operation of social production and all aspects of life Moreover, in emergency rescue after earthquake, as an important energy supply, power system is not only the source of motive power for lifeline project like communication, but also the ma in guarantee to transport materials and rescue the wounded. Meanwhile, the normal running of water supply system determines the condition of victims' liv ing water and public health situation directly. During 48 h ours after the disaster, the meaning of pure water for the survivors is more important than food, unless enough clean water is supplied by the rescuers quickly, otherwise, survivors may be infected with any diseases one can imagine. In Haiti, the most common diseases of the victims are respiratory disorders caused by heavy smoke and dust inhalation and diarrhea caused by drinking polluted water, which lead to increasi ng risk of suffering from dengue fever, malaria and urticaria. Once the earthquake or epidemic plague occurs, it might not be limited to a certain part, but spread rapidly affecting the entire region threatening the entire country and even other countries Large-scale public health epidemic that has the characters of spreading rapidly, continuity and chain properties, which often make a regional disaster, quickly escalated into a national or even global crisis. And with the development of information age, the link between things become diversification and synchronic, and limited resources can also lead to attend one thing and lose another, forming a "cascade effect", which will increase the impact of the crisis  Therefore, the spread of crisis will be more visible and prominent in globalization and information age. Thus, the stagnation of water and power supply systems, is likely to cause infectious disease outbreaks in a very short time after natural disasters  Therefore, it is impossible to ignore the credible association relati onship between shortage of water and power supply and plague epidemic, and the mining results of this study indeed confirm the relationship between the two critical incidents  3\ Shortage of water and power supply Communications blackout The anti-earthquake ability of a communication system will affect the rescue after the disaster directly without considering the breakdown of the signal propagation which attributes to th e power supply which was destroyed in the earthquake, when the communication equipment such as the signal tower is destroyed, the whole system will crash as well. It probably leads to the situ ation that the information of disaster rescue operation cannot reported to the headquarter in time, the rescue command cannot arrive and the effective rescue cannot be taken place within a short time after the earthqua ke, these will result in the situation expanding to an uncontrollable state  For example, after the earthquake in Wenchuan, China, the communication between the distress area and the outside was cut off as long as 20 hours, it highly increased the difficulty of rescuing. The blackout of communication can be mainly represented as telephone line cutoff or internet cutoff. Based on th e mining results, the situation happened more obviously in the Japan and Taiwan earthquakes than any others, for most of the voice and internet data are transmitted th rough the fiber-optic cable in the ocean, which would be easily destroyed in the earthquakes in the islands areas such as Japan and Taiwan. According to this po int, a higher credibility of the relationship between communication blackout and shortage of water and power supply was concluded. Thus this result indicates the ef fectiveness of CAR and its maximum clique mining algorithm again to a certain degree 4 ioactive pollution In the mining result of 2item credible set of this empirical research, there is a couple of incidents need to be paid high attention, which is the relationship between radioactive pollution and supplies scarcity, the two critical incidents of the ear thquake in March 2011,Japan Due to the earthquake, Fukusgima nuclear power plant got a large-scale nuclear leakage accident, which led to a huge damage to the environm ent, not only polluting the air with radioactive substance s and atomic dusts, but also it caused secondary pollution for the residents in Japan The accident intensified the worry from all the parties about the Japanese food, which is influenced by the nuclear pollution seriously, and unfortunately, it tended to be diffusion. By March 26t h 2011, it had already been 99 kinds of products suffered from nuclear contamination in Tokyo and five other areas 18 In Japan lots of individuals panic bou ght agricultural products and necessaries for living, as a result, the phenomenon of supplies scarcity appeared gradually. Meanwhile, Japan is one of the world's biggest food import state, its domestic resources are limited, what was worse, these limited products would decrease rapidly attributing to the nuclear pollution. Therefore, the import demand of agricultural products would expand to a higher level, it is likely to stimulate the increasing of agricultural products imports in some Asian economies, and then it is entirely possible to push some worldwide food prices to a higher level. Although the effect may be not appear very soon, it indeed confirm the cred ible association relationship between radioactive pollu tion and supplies scarcity  3.2 analysis of 3-item credi ble set and 4-item credible set To observe the results of the maximum cliques shown in Figure 1 and 2, any two vertices, namely any credible association credibility between two critical incidents is greater than 0.2, which means that in many critical incidents of earthquake disasters of the special areas, several events shown in the figure are most likely to occur simultaneously. In the analysis of the 2-item credible set, it has been illustrated the relationships between the incidents and the reasons for them such as supplies scarcity. Therefore, this paragraph would pay 


1351  more attention to explain the credible association relationships between the political chaos, social chaos and other critical incidents in special areas Due to the earthquake, lacking of supplies, the rising prices and other series of crises become inevitable incidents to victims, and it indirectly lead to social disorder and unrest. Wang Hanzhong analyzed the process that the ancient Chinese farmers became the bandits because of their hungry or displaced when disaster came 19 When the farmers did nothing to the disaster, the ending of them was sitting and waiting for death. However, when the farmers became desperate to be the bandits, they might survive from the disaster Although it is rarely to see that victims becoming bandits after disasters in modern society on a global scale, the emergence of critical incident s might inhibit the implementation of the policy to a certain extent, which would affect the peopleês normal production and living order. When a disaster occurs in a country with a unstable political situation, this social disruption would occur, and even eventually lead to violent incidents According to the years of colonial domination and slavery system, there are 3 main political forces in Haiti areas, and due to historical grievances, they have never got a political consensus Therefore, no matter who take office, it is hard to obtain universal supported, and it is difficult to produce a strong internal cohesion in the state  Facing to a disaster, the government is hard to obtain peopleês trust, and people barely can be taken care of the government either. Du ring the period after the disaster, society was disorder ed and looting happened everywhere, besides, limited social relief organizations always seemed too weak to solve the problem. It is difficult to implement national political wills effectively and also difficult to obtain positive responses from other social organizations. After th e earthquake, not only the victims were difficult to obtain drinking water, food basic shelter and social security but also the social contempt for the dead demonstrated a kind of disrespect for life, which caused large-scale post-earthquake humanitarian crisis in Haiti, and violence events occurred frequently. Thus, as the results shows above there are strong credible association among the critical incidents, supplies scarcity price inflation, land traffic jams, social chaos and political chaos  4 Enlightenment of the paper  In recent decades, due to the frequent occurring of the earthquake, different governments all over the world positively formulated diverse emergency response plans for destructive earthquake according to their national conditions. They published relevant policies and took measures to try to decrease the damage of the earthquake into a small range. Considering the analysis above results of data mining based on CAR and its maximum clique mining algorithm inde ed reflect the relationships between different critical incidents of earthquake disaster so it is entirely possible to propose more effective emergency response plans based on this research, that means to observe these relationships of the incidents systematically. The government should fully consider the cascade effect of the critical incidents of earthquake disasters, through the occurring of one incident, they could forecast which one is the most likely to happen next. It would help to avoid suggesting single solution to only one critical incident and overmuch paying attention on lower possible ones, in other words, it is entirely possible to try to suggest more effective and comprehensive emergency response plans. As a result not only can it help to rescue smoothly, but also it is significant to stabilize the society and decrease the negative impacts   5 Conclusion  This paper introduces credible association rule and its maximum clique mining algorithm, combined with the composition of the evolution of risk events, this paper analyzes the data of 9 earthquakes which bring greater impact to the world than any others in recent 4 years as an empirical research. According to related theories and discussions, this paper verifies the exactness of the mining results and the effectiveness of the CAR and its maximum clique mining algorithm under the situation of earthquake. Th e results of data mining represent the credible associati on relationships of the critical incidents of the earthquake disasters, after the global observation, the paper analyzes couples of critical incidents which have the universal properties and higher potential occurring probabilities, and it is significant to conduct the governments in different areas for proposing the emergency response plan scenario for destructive earthquake. However, there is a defect in this paper as well, namely lacking of the research on the incidents which credibility is lower than the threshold, while, they would be analyzed in the future study to avoid omitting o ther constructive significant information  References  1 n g wenxi Response to emergencies and public crisis management. Guangming Daily Press, 2009  o B Xu Q F  Lin Z Q Guo J Li C G  Cre dibl e  association rule and its minin g algorithm based on maximum cliq J o ur nal of Softwa re 2008 1 9 10  2597-2610   A g r awal R, Im ielinski T   Swam i A. Mi ning association rules between sets of items in large databases Bunem an P  J a jo dia S,eds. Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conf. on Management of Data SIGMODê93\York: ACM Press, 1993:207-216    Sri kant R. Fast algorithm s for m i ning association rul Za niolo C, e d s Proc. of the 20th Intêl Con f. on Very Large Data Bases Santigo: Morgan Kaufman Publishers, 1994:478-499   Ha n J  Pei J  Y i n Y  Mi ning f r eque nt patt erns without  candidate ge Chen W D, Naughton J   


1352  Bernstein P A, eds. Proc. of the 2000 ACM SIGMOD Intêl Conf. on Management of Data \(SIGMOD 2000 New York: ACM Press, 2000:1-12   pp J, G¸ntzer U, Na khaeizadeh G   Algorithm s for association rule mining-A general survey and comparison. SigKDD Explorations, 2000, 2\(1\58-64  7 ila H, T o ivon en H V e rk am o A Discov ery of frequent episodes in event sequences  Katha rina M  Hanna K eds. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 1 Netherlands: Kluwer Academic Pulishers, 1997:259-289    Xu Q F  Xiao B, G uo J A  m i ning a l go rithm  with  alarm association rules based on Journal of Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, 2007,30\(1\:66, 70   n A L   T a ng C J T a o H C   Y u a n C  A Xie F J  An improved algorithm based on maximum clique and FP-tree for mi J o urnal  of Software, 2004,15\(8\1198-1207  10]Chen Changkun, Sun Yunfeng, Li Zhi. Characteristic analysis of evolution and de rivation chain of risk events caused by snow and ice disaste  of Catastrophology, 2009,3\(1  1 i an Y o u. S t udy on tourism e m er gency association rule mining algorithm e ij in g Un iv ersity o f Po sts and telecommunications, 2009  1 Che n g Y a n, Re n Gu o x in g D u Li bin  Ap rio r i ba sed  data mining technology for marine disaster forecast Shandong Science, 2009, 2   W a ng Shouyang, Li u T i emin, Chen Sh ou, Zheng Guihuan. Unexpected disasters on our country's economic influence and emergency management researc Science Press, 2010   Hong, Chen An. Em er gency managem r ess  2006  15 Xu e Lan, Zh ang Q i ang Zh ong  K a ib in Cr isis management in China the challenge of the tr Tsinghua University Press, 2003   Shua n ghua. Research on seism ic reliability and optimum retrofit of water supply network system Dalian University of T echnology, 2009   She n Jianyin. Discus sion of  the problem s  and countermeasures about communi cation confusion at the  Science 2010,4:75-77   Mo Li A g gravati n g c once r n ing on f o od contamination and the price inflation of international food caused by nuclear leak Financial Times, 2011:3-29   Zhou Xiaoli. Se ver e public c r isis m a nagem ent Society Scientific Literature Press, 2008,11  20 zh ongwei W a n g Hon g s hu  Th e po l itical p a th of socialism with Chinese characteristics: Seen from the first 20 days after Wenchuan and Haiti Journal of Sichuan Un iversity: Humanities & Social Sciences, 2010, 3   


ix  ZHANG Zhi-gang Study of resource index algorithm based on p2p Nan YAO and Baoshan Sun 255 Efficient Encoding of The MELP LSF Parameters : Application of The Switched Split Vector Quantization BOUZID Merouane 259 ICCIA 2010 Session 5 Design of Intelligent Control System for A.C. Motor Synchronous Driving with Multi-units Mu Zhang and Jiancheng Wu 263 A new Control Strategy of Sizing percentage based on analysis of key Factors Yufeng Jia and Mu Zhang 266 The Robust Asymptotically Stabilization of Uncertain Nonlinear Systems Based on High-Gain observer Bo Meng and Huixin Tian 270 Digital Image Processing of Cotton Yarn Seriplane Cheng Ling, Zhao Lianying, Chen Li and Zhou Xuanli 274 Sliding Mode Control Scheme for Aircraft Zhao Zhan-shan, Zhang Jing, Sun Lian-kun and Ding Gang 278 Cramer-Rao Bound for Angle Estimation with Passive Synthetic Array Bo Tang, Zhikun Ma and Jun Tang 282 Sliding Mode Control Based on Finite Time Stabilization Zhang Jing, Ding Gang and Jin Liu 286 A Note on Local Receive Channel Scheduling versus Transmit Channel Scheduling in Wireless Multi-Channel Ad Hoc Networks Jens P. Elsner, Ralph Tanbourgi and Friedrich K. Jondral 289 SEMI-SUPERVISED FEATURE SELECTION BASED ON LABEL PROPAGATION AND SUBSET SELECTION Yun Liu, Feiping Nie, Jigang Wu and Lihui Chen 293 An Intelligent Representing System of Search Results 


Zheng Zhang, Gang Bai, Jinhua Li and Yi Zhu 297 Research of Cruor Detecting System and Method Junru Li, Jixin Zhou, Yu Feng and Yingui Liu 301 UML-Based Development of Modern AC Servo Drives Xu Zheng 305 Study on the Measuring System for Vehicle's Passing Ability in Space Chengqiang Zong, Xinping Yan and Zhiyong Lu 309 x  Data Integration Framework for Semi-Structured Data and Structured Data on Equiptment Domain based on Ontology Wang Pan-qing, Li Xiong-Wei and Liu Zeng-liang 314 Particle Swarm Optimization Route Planner Algorithm for Air Vehicle Yu Hui, Yu Xin and Su min 319 Performance Analysis of Parallel Database in Grid Wu Weining, Song Guozhi and Li Xingang 323 Analysis on the Coordinated Development between Modern Logistics and Urban Agglomeration Based on the Comparison of Yangtze River Delta and Jing-Jin-Ji Area Chunhong Zhu, Shenshen Wang and Fan Yang 326 ICCIA 2010 Session 6 Selection Research on Construction Sub-contractor EnterprisesBased on Bilevel Programming Yan-bing Yin, Hong Zhao and Hanjun Chen 330 Monte Carlo Analysis of Probability of One-dimensional Consolidation in Saturated Clay Soil Ground Li Xiaoyong and Zhang Hui 335 Design and Implementation for Parallel Particle Swarm Optimization Color Quantization Algorithm Zhe Li and Yong Chen 339 Attribute Mapping for Cross-Domain Access Control Yi-Hong Long , Zhi-Hong Tang and Xu Liu 


343 Intelligent Control System for Two-motor Synchronous Driving Yunjun Chen ,Xiuming Jiang and Gongyuan Yang 348 A Study of NC Limit Traction Technology in the Scope of Cutting Hard Materials Jiali Wu, Ming Li,Yingui Liu and Guozhi Song 352 Detecting Implicit Exceptions of Service-oriented Application Based on Context Xiangyang Jia, Shi Ying, Kai Zhao and Qing Wu 356 Fuzzy Control for the Handling Stability of Motor Drive Electric Vehicle Yongli Zhao and Yuhong Zhang 361 Acoustic-Structure Coupled Analysis of Interior Noise for Heavy Commercial Vehicle MA Tianfei,GAO Gang and ZHANG Yuntao 366 Sahana Alerting Software for Real-Time Biosurveillance in India and Sri Lanka Nuwan Waidyanatha, Gordon Gow, Chamindu Sampath, Ganesan M., Janakiraman, N., Mifan Careem,Damendra Pradeeper and Mahesh Kaluarachchi 370 A New Hybrid PSOGSA Algorithm for Function Optimization Seyedali Mirjalili and Siti Zaiton Mohd Hashim 374 xi  Control Software for Automated Microrobotic Paper Fiber Characterization Mathias von Essen, Seppo Kuikka and Pasi Kallio 378 A Visual Authoring Framework for Intelligent Flight Trainer GENG Xiaobing, LIU Sijiang, JIANG Yongshi and YANG Yiping 382 Comparison of Radiometry and Modified Periodogram Spectrum Detection inWireless Radio Networks P. Derakhshan-Barjoei, G. Dadashzadeh, F. Razzazi and S. Mohammad Razavizadeh 386 On The Miniaturization of Microstrip Line Fed Slot Antenna Using Various Slots Mustafa K. Taher Al-Nuaimi 390 An Efficient and Cost Effective Internetworking Setup for Research and Teaching Purpose Savitri Bevinakoppa 394 The Mobility Management Scheme Based on MP2P Dynamic Structure Model 


Fangfang Guo, Weiwei Xu and Bingyang Li 398 Research on Index Releasing in MP2P Based on Super-Peers Fangfang Guo, Jing Xu and Bingyang Li 402 ICCIA 2010 Session 7 Active Vibration Control of Inflated Space Stuctures using Smart Materials Kamel, M.A. and Weiliang He 406 Practical Precision Bound for Indoor Location Determination Yiming Ji 410 The Use of Genetic Algorithm for Designing Mimo Antenna Placement Peerapong Uthansakul, Danai Assanuk and Monthippa Uthansakul 414 Design and Implementation of Digital Campus Based on LBS and WSN Yunchen Jiang and Shanshan Wan 418 Process of Information Transmission in Varying Nano-microstructure Jun LU 422 An Implementation Framework of Globus Resource Management Model Based on Extended WS-Agreement QI Chao and ZHANG Xi 426 Performance of Switched-beam Antennas for Wireless Mesh Networks using Synchronous Collision Resolution Protocol Sineenart Panngam, Peerapong Uthansakul and Monthippa Uthansakul 430 A Multiple Frame Integration and Mathematical Morphology Based Technique for Video Text Extraction Lijie Li,Jin Li,Yang Song and Lei Wang 434 The Key Technologies of Painting Style Rendering Based on Image 438 xii  Li Zhen-ya Physical Layer Simulations of the Broadband Wireless LANs Based on OWSS Signalling Technique Guozhi Song and Laurie Cuthbert 442 Fluid Analysis of Gas-Liquid Two-Phase Flow Based on Semiconductor Laser 


Measurement and S Transform  446 Applying Grey Relational Analysis to Evaluating the Connection Degree of Various Factors in China Textile Industry Interior Ma Tao and Du Yuzhou 450 Automated Diagnosing of Nevus Flammeus Using OCT Raw Signal Yankui Sun and Chengkun Xue 453 Prediction of Day-ahead Electricity Price Based on Information Fusion Huixin Tian, Mu Zhang and Bo Meng 457 The Research and Realization of Multi-threaded Intelligent Test Paper Generation Based on Genetic Algorithm Ying Shan 461 Application of Virtual Reality Technology in Bridge Structure Safety Monitoring Dongwei Qiu and Lanfang Gao 465 Study on On-line Measurement System of Stone Slabs Based on OpenCV Zhao Min and Na Lihong 468 Author Index 471  Weixin Liu, Ningde Jin, Guozhi Song and Mingzhe Liu xiii          Organizing Committees Honorary Chair b f f f\f\f\b 


General Chair f!!\f  Organizing Chairs  f!!\f  f$% \f!!\f  Organizing Co-chairs f    f  f\f   f\f\f   f*!\f!\f.\f  f f  Program Committee Chairs  f\f\f   f!!\f  Publication Chair 0   


200 250 300  The size of dataset/10,000 R es po ns e tim e S    a 0 50 100 150 200  The size of dataset/10,000 R es po ns e tim e S    b 0 10 20 30 40 50 


60  The size of dataset/30,000 R es po ns e tim e S    c Fig. 9 The scalability of our algorithm compared with FP-growth  Paper [12] proposed a way to reduce times of scanning transaction database to reduce the cost of I/O IV. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK This paper first discusses the theory of foundations and association rules and presents an association rules mining algorithm, namely, FP-growth algorithm. And then we propose an improved algorithm IFP-growth based on many association rules mining algorithms. At last we implement the algorithm we propose and compare it with algorithm FPgrowth algorithm. The experimental evaluation demonstrates its scalability is much better than algorithm FP-growth 177 Now, lets forecast something we want to do someday Firstly, we would parallelize our algorithm, because data mining needs massive computation, and a parallelable environment could high improve the performance of the algorithm; Secondly, we would apply our algorithm on much more datasets and study the run performance; At last, we would study the performance when the algorithm deal with other kinds of association rules  REFERENCES 1] S. Sumathi and S. N. Sivanandam. Introduction to Data Mining and its Applications, Springer, 2006 2] V. J. Hodge, J. Austin, A survey of outlier detection 


methodologies, Artificial Intelligence Review, 2004, 22 85-126 3] Han, J. and M. Kamber. Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques. Morgan Kaufmann, San. Francisco, 2000 4] Jianchao Han, Mohsen Beheshti. Discovering Both Positive and Negative Fuzzy Association Rules in Large Transaction Databases, Journal of Advanced Computational Intelligence and Intelligent Informatics 2006, 10\(3 5] Jiuyong Li, Hong Shen, Rodney Topor. Mining Informative Rule Set for Prediction. Journal of Intelligent Information Systems, 2004, 22\(2 6] Jianchao Han, and Mohsen Beheshti. Discovering Both Positive and Negative Fuzzy Association Rules in Large Transaction Databases. Journal of Advanced Computational Intelligence, 2006, 10\(3 7] Doug Burdick, Manuel Calimlim, Jason Flannick Johannes Gehrke, Tomi Yiu. MAFIA: A Maximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2005, 17\(11 1504 8] Assaf Schuster, Ran Wolff, Dan Trock. A highperformance distributed algorithm for mining association rules. Knowledge and Information Systems, 2005, 7\(4 458-475 9] Mohammed J. Zaki. Mining Non-Redundant Association Rules. 2004, 9\(3 10] J.Han, J.Pei, Y.Yin, Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation, Proceedings ACM SIGMOD 2000 Dallas, TX, May 2000: 1-12 11] P.Viola, M.Jones. Rapid Object Detection Using A Boosted Cascade of Simple Features. Proc. IEEE Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2001 12] Anthony K. H. Tung, Hongjun Lu, Jiawei Han, Ling FengJan. Efficient Mining of Intertransaction Association Rules. 2003, 154\(1 178 


For each vertex b in g form j forests body\(a, g, i s.t. bodyAnt\(a, g, i a, g, i with itemsets Ant\(b b and each subset of itemsets Ant\(b b in P\(a, g, j Assign to each leaf l of trees bodyAnt\(a, g, i bodyCons\(a, g, i a fresh variable Vm,M, m, M = size\(itemset\(l Assign to each leaf l of tree headAnt\(a, g, j the variable assigned to itemset l in some leaf of some tree bodyCons\(a, g, i TABLE II.  EXPERIMENTAL DATA Conf. #rules #pruned #dftrs PtC 0.5 6604 2985 1114 0.6 2697 2081 25 0.75 1867 1606 10 0.8 1266 1176 0 0.95 892 866 1 0.98 705 699 1 DSP 0.5 2473 1168 268 0.6 1696 869 64 0.75 1509 844 89 0.8 1290 1030 29 0.95 1032 889 15 0.98 759 723 1 Arry 0.5 770 492 82 0.6 520 353 60 0.75 472 327 39 0.8 408 287 22 0.95 361 255 25 0.98 314 243 30  Our induction algorithm has been launched for each combination of thresholds. Our scheme eliminates all redundant rules in the sense of [25, 31], i.e. those association rules that are not in the covers. All the meta-rule deductive schemes implicitly included in [25] and [31] are induced by our method. The percentage of pruning, thus, outperforms [25 


The results produced for k=3, support 0.25 and confidences between 0.7 and 0.99 are shown in Fig. 3, in terms of pruning percentage \(vertical axis when applied to low confidences \(from 0.7 to 0.9 The percentage of pruning achieved diminishes as the confidence is superior to 0.9. Nevertheless, the pruning is effective with confidence of 0.99 in the majority of cases Pruning at Support = 0.25 0,00 5,00 10,00 15,00 20,00 25,00 30,00 35,00 40,00 45,00 50,00 0,7 0,8 0,9 0,95 0,99 Confidence P ru n in g L e v e l Case 1 Case 2 Case 3  Figure 3.  Pruning experiences at support 0.25  V. DISCUSSION AND CHALLENGES It is important to discuss the technique presented here with focus on the purpose the technique pursues:  to produce semantic recommendation The reader should have noticed that the algorithm presented 


relies strongly on "choice". For instance, the algorithm chooses ears in the graph to form an order for elimination, and the choice is arbitrary. This strategy is essential to maintain low complexity \(polynomial practical. Nevertheless, a warned reader may conclude that this arbitrary choice implies that there are many compactions to produce and therefore the approach as a whole does not show to produce an optimal solution. And the reader is right in this conclusion. Since the goal is compaction, the search for an optimal solution can be bypassed provided a substantial level of pruning is achieved To complete the whole view, we describe how web service descriptions are complemented with the association rules as recommendations. In effect, under our scheme, the document describing the web service is augmented with a set of OWL/RDF/S triples that only incorporate the non-pruned rules with the format of Example 1, that is, the set ARmin of the compaction program obtained by our algorithm, together with the thresholds applied to the mining process and a registered URI of a registered description service. The assumptions and defeaters are not added to the web service description. If the associations encoded in the triples are not sufficient for the client \(a search engine, for instance widening of the response to the description service identified by the given URI, and then the assumptions and defeaters are produced. The reasoning task required for deriving all the implicitly published rules is client responsibility Notice that, under this scheme, the actual rules that appear as members of the set initial ARmin set are irrelevant; the only important issue is the size of the set The developed scheme also supports an extension of the algorithm that admits the assignment of priorities to rules and to itemsets, in order to allow the user to produce a more controlled program as output. Nonetheless, the importance of the extension has not been already tested, and therefore it is beyond the subject of the present paper It would be also interesting to design a scheme that supports queries where the client provides an itemset class and values for support and confidence and the engine produces a maximal class of inferred associated itemsets as a response. This scheme is also under development, so we have not discussed this aspect here 


VI. CONCLUSION In this paper, we have presented a defeasible logic framework for managing associations that helps in reducing the number of rules found in a set of discovered associations. We have presented an induction algorithm for inducing programs in our logic, made of assumption schemas, a reduced set of association rules and a set of counter-arguments to conclusions called defeaters, guaranteeing that every pruned rule can be effectively inferred from the output. Our approach outperform those of [17], because all reduction compactions presented there can be expressed and induced in our framework, and several other patterns, particular to the given datasets, can also be found. In addition, since a set of definite clauses can be obtained from the induced programs, the knowledge obtained can be modularly inserted in a richer inference engine Abduction can be also attempted, asking for justifications that explain the presence of certain association in the dataset The framework presented can be extended in several ways Admitting defeaters to appear in the head of assumption, to define user interest Admitting arithmetic expressions within assumptions for adjustment in pruning Admitting set formation patterns as itemset constants Extending the scope, to cover temporal association rules REFERENCES 1]  R. Agrawal, and R. Srikant: Fast algorithms for mining association rules In Proc. Intl Conf. Very Large Databases. \(1994 2]  A. V. Aho, J. E. Hopcroft, J. Ullman. The design and analysis of computer algorithms, Addison-Wesley, 1974 3]  G. Antoniou, D. Billington, G. Governatori, M. J. Maher, A. Rock: A Family of Defeasible Reasoning Logics and its Implementation. ECAI 2000: 459-463 4]  G. Antoniou, D. Billington, G. Governatori, M. J. Maher: Representation results for defeasible logic. ACM Trans. Comput. Log. 2\(2 2001 5]  A. Basel, A. Mahafzah, M. Al-Badarneh: A new sampling technique for association rule mining, Journal of Information Science, Vol. 35, No. 3 358-376 \(2009 6]  R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal: Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc of the Fifth ACMSIGKDD Intl Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 145-154, \(1999 


7]  R. Bayardo, R. Agrawal, and D. Gunopulos: Constraint-based Rule Mining in Large, Dense Databases. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Journal, Vol. 4, Num-bers 2/3, 217-240. \(2000 8]  A. Berrado, G. Runger: Using metarules to organize and group discovered association rules. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Vol 14, Issue 3. \(2007 9]  S. Brin, R. Motwani, J. Ullman, and S. Tsur: Dynamic itemset counting and implication rules for market basket analysis. In Proc. ACMSIGMOD Intl Conf. Management of Data. \(1997 10] L. Cristofor and D.Simovici: Generating an nformative Cover for Association Rules. In ICDM 2002, Maebashi City, Japan. \(2002 11] Y. Fu and J. Han: Meta-rule Guided Mining of association rules in relational databases. In Proc. Intl Workshop on Knowledge Discovery and Deductive and Object-Oriented Databases. \(1995 12] B. Goethals, E. Hoekx, J. Van den Bussche: Mining tree queries in a graph. KDD: 61-69. \(2005 13] G. Governatori, D. H. Pham, S. Raboczi, A. Newman and S. Takur: On Extending RuleML for Modal Defeasible Logic. RuleML, LNCS 5321 89-103. \(2008  14] G. Governatori and A. Stranieri. Towards the application of association rules for defeasible rules discovery In Legal Knowledge and Information Systems, JURIX, IOS Press, 63-75. \(2001 15] J. Han, J. Pei and Y. Yin: Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation. In Proc. ACM-SIGMOD Intl Conf. Management of Data 2000 16] C. Hbert, B. Crmilleux: Optimized Rule Mining Through a Unified Framework for Interestingness Measures. DaWaK: LNCS 4081, 238247. \(2006 17] E. Hoekx, J. Van den Bussche: Mining for Tree-Query Associations in a Graph. ICDM 2006: 254-264 18] R. Huebner: Diversity-Based Interestingness Measures For Association Rule Mining. Proceedings of ASBBS Volume 16 Number 1, \(2009 19] B. Johnston, Guido Governatori: An algorithm for the induction of defeasible logic theories from databases. Proceedings of the 14th Australasian Database Conference, 75-83. \(2003 20] P. Kazienko: Mining Indirect Association Rules For Web Recommendation. Int. J. Appl. Math. Comput. Sci., Vol. 19, No. 1, 165 186. \(2009 21] M. Klemettinen, H. Mannila, P. Ronkainen, H. Toivonen, and A Verkamo: Finding interesting rules from large sets of discovered association rules. In Proc. 3rd Intl Conf. on Information and Knowledge 


Management. \(1994 22] M. J. Maher, A. Rock, G. Antoniou, D. Billington, T. Miller: Efficient Defeasible Reasoning Systems. International Journal on Artificial Intelligence Tools 10\(4 2001 23] C. Marinica, F. Guillet, and H. Briand: Post-Processing of Discovered Association Rules Using Ontologies. The Second International Workshop on Domain Driven Data Mining, Pisa, Italy \(2008 24] N. Pasquier, Y. Bastide, R. Taouil, and L. Lakhal: Closed sets based discovery of small covers for association rules. In Proc. BDA'99 Conference, 361-381 \(1999 25] N. Pasquier, R. Taouil, I. Bastide, G. Stume, and  L. Lakhal: Generating a Condensed Representation for Association Rules. In Journal of Intelligent Information Systems, 24:1, 29-60 \(2005 26] P. Pothipruk, G. Governatori: ALE Defeasible Description Logic Australian Conference on Artificial Intelligence.  110-119 \(2006 27] J. Sandvig, B. Mobasher Robustness of collaborative recommendation based on association rule mining, Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Recommender Systems \(2007 28] W. Shen, K. Ong, B. Mitbander, and C. Zaniolo: Metaqueries for data mining. In Fayaad, U. et al. Eds. Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. \(1996 29] I. Song, G. Governatori: Nested Rules in Defeasible Logic. RuleML LNCS 3791, 204-208 \(2005 30] H. Toivonen, M. Klemettinen, P. Ronkainer, K. Hatonen, and H Mannila: Pruning and grouping discovered association rules. In ECML Workshop on Statistics, Machine Learning and KDD. \(1995 31] M. Zaki: Generating Non-Redundant Association Rules. In Proc. of the Sixth ACMSIGKDD Intl Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 34-43, \(2000 32] w3c. OWL Ontology Web Language Reference. In http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-owl-ref-20040210 33] w3c. RDF/XML Syntax Specification. In: http://www.w3.org/TR/rdfsyntax-grammar 34] w3c. RDF Schema. In: http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema      


 8   2  3\f            8  D    F  \b 1 8 & #J      b 1  1  4    2  


4 1    9  E 1  2 4 1    9 1   4      8 2  8 1  D 1        1 1  b 


     b b b b b  K            8          2 D 9   F  \b 1 8 ,+J  9 


     b 1     1 2  9 1  12 L 1   9  8       1  2      2   


     b b b b b  K            2  0 \b f  b\f      9       


  8 2   E 1   1     M13 31L 1    b  8E 1   1 #3\b?### 1  1     E 1   1 \b?###3        


1   1   b 1  2 2 18 2     8              1    2 \b 1    2  


    2          2   1 L 2 1   1   L 2 2    2 1  2        


    8  2H D \b A             2  2H D \b A 2 \f 3%\f  f   4%\f f !  , \f\b  C    2    2 


 6    3 1      253 6   1 L 2    6   1         f\b3\f       


               1     1     8 2    E       2  1   


     2 8    b 4      1 8             1 2     1  8 2  


1 9    8      2 1       1     2    8    2 3\f        


     8 D 4 9  F  \b 1 8 #J 9 1     2 1   2 #-@ 1   2 9  E 1   1   2 9      6  


    8  8   1  D 1         1 F  \b0         2 D    F  \b 1 8  9  


  1 9  1   E 1  2 9     1 1 F  \b       1    18   F   1    1 #-$+  \b  2 2  


1 D     1 #-$+.B- 0/:% .0             9 1      18    1 6     1 2  1  1  


1   6      2    1 2 E 8 D 1      1 2   1   1 #-4  #-@E     2  1  1  1       


 8     1          2 F    6   F  2   8    2 C<CC/C N\bO 5      


CD    b$44NO F P Q 6   2 b$$$ ,=\b\bA  A N,O 2 C C  b$$4N  92 2   f  9-\b$$4 B N?O  !-    91  2 1 HH111-18-N+O    -1 :3%   2     0-4 


     b N4O 2   2- \f  C b$@$ \b# >\b\b$3\b$N@O  f :.% 9 /9 \f    1  6  f 2  4   A254 


Advantages of Our M ethod Advantages of Our M ethod Exploit the memory v ertical data format utilizes slidin g windows to g form a much larger database to analyze  Flexibility in Choosing what to choose  Choosing what to choose to build the rules Computational and memory efficiency We have a team working only on this aspect 45 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 45 


Preliminary Results Intra transaction Relations Data rate simulator NH-134 Mb HOP PATH update \(Y/N Inference 11.5 Y Y 2 0.120 N N      Y   n 0.345 N NH134 Y/N   Inf 1 0.150 N N 2 0 120 Y N Inter transaction Relations 2 0  120 Y N       5 5.55 0.456 Y Relations  n 0.345 N N Nmap on DMRL nmap.org 


Anticipated Outcome Anticipated Outcome Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse Develop algorithm capable of learning from a given heterogeneous diverse data ff Dynamic algorithmic f ramework designed to shi f t modalities and sampling rates based on complex logic Flexibility of integration into the Snort intrusion detection system 47 Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 47 


References References Aircraft Cockpit Image courtesy USAF http://www.faa.gov htt p   www.faa g ov  air traffic  technolo gy  p g  _ gy  Acharya R Dua S Du X Sree V Chua C K Automated Diagnosis of Glaucoma Using Texture and Higher Order Spectra Features To appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine  Du X Dua S 2011 Cancer Prognosis Using Support Vector Regression in Imaging  Modality World Journal of Clinical Oncology 2  1   44 49 Du X Dua S 2010 Salient Frame Extraction Using Support Vector Regression and Motion Features pp 5 Proc of the National Aerospace and Electronics Conference July 14 16 2010 D M P D S 2010 Di i i ti Ft d Cl ifi ti Mthd f D essaue r  M  P  D ua S  2010  Di scr i m i na ti ve F ea t ures an d Cl ass ifi ca ti on M e th o d s f or Accurate Classification 1st ed vol 7704 pp 14 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE Dessauer M P Dua S 2010 Low Resolution Vehicle Tracking using Dense and Reduced Local Gradient Features Maps 1st ed vol 7694 pp 8 Bellingham WA Proceedings of SPIE SPIE 


Acknowledgements Acknowledgements Fundin g A g encies  US 4 1 Million direct fundin g g g 4 g LA BoR NIH NSF AFRL AFOSR and NASA Research Team Samuel Kasimalla Brandy McKnight Dr Pradeep Chowriappa Connor Johnson Vasanth Nair Mihir Chowriappa  Connor Johnson  Vasanth Nair  Mihir Karnik Mohit Jain and Swadheen Songmen Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 49 All the respective Logos belong to their owners 


Rf d Rdi R e f erence d R ea di ngs Copyright of cover pages held by respective publishers 


Thank You Questions Thank You  Questions Dr Sumeet Dua E mail sdua@latech.edu Web http://dmrl.latech.edu Associative IDS for NextGen Frameworks Frameworks Dr S Dua LA Tech 51 Image Source roadtrafficsigns.com 


