  1 An Autonomy Architecture for Aerobot Exploration of the Saturnian Moon Titan  Alberto Elfes, Jeffery L. Hall, Eric A. Kulczycki, Daniel S. Clouse, Arin C. Morfopoulos, James F. Montgomery Jonathan M. Cameron, Adnan Ansar, and Richard J. Machuzak Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA 91109, USA elfes@jpl.nasa.gov, jlhall@mail.jpl.nasa.gov, Eric.A.K ulczycki@jpl.nasa.gov, Daniel.S.Clouse@jpl.nasa.gov Arin.C.Morfopoulos@jpl.nasa.gov, monty@jpl.nasa gov, Jonathan.M.Cameron@jpl.nasa.gov, ansar@jpl.nasa.gov Richard.J.Machuzak@jpl.nasa.gov   Abstract The Huygens probe arrived at Saturn’s moon Titan on January 14, 2005 unveiling a world that is radically different from any ot her in the Solar system. The data obtained, complemented by continuing observations from the Cassini spacecraft, show methane lakes, river 
channels and drainage basins sand dunes, cryovolcanos and sierras. This has lead to an enormous scientific interest in a follow-up mission to Titan, using a robotic lighter-than-air vehicle \(or aerobot\s have modest power requirements, can fly missions with extended durations, and have very long distance trav erse capabilities. They can execute regional surveys, transport and deploy scientific instruments and in-situ laboratory facilities over vast distances, and also provide surface sampling at strategic science sites. This paper describes our progress in the development of the autonomy technologies that will be required for exploration of Titan. We provide an overview of the autonomy architecture and some of its key components. We also show results obtained from autonomous flight tests conducted in the Mojave desert 
12  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  S ATURN  S M OON T ITAN 1  3  A EROBOT A UTONOMY A RCHITECTURE 3  4  T HE JPL  A EROBOT T ESTBED 
3  5  A EROBOT A ERODYNAMIC M ODELING 4  6  S IMULATION SYSTEM 5  7  A UTONOMOUS F LIGHT C ONTROL 6  8  I MAGE B ASED M OTION E STIMATION 7  9  C 
ONCLUSIONS 7  A CKNOWLEDGMENTS 8  R EFERENCES 8  B IOGRAPHY 9  1  I NTRODUCTION  In addition to Earth, seven other bodies in the Solar System have enough of an atmosphere to allow aerial exploration Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn Uranus, Neptune, and Saturn's 1  1 1-4244-1488-1/08/$25 00 ©2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1296, Version 2 updated 2007:11:22  
moon Titan. The NASA 2003 Solar System Exploration Roadmap identified aerial vehicles as a strategic new technology for Solar System explorati  and emphasized the development of advanced autonomy technologies as a high priority area for the operation of aerial probes. NASA’s 2006 Solar System Exploration Roadmap confi r m s and ext e nds t h i s vi si on, l i s t i ng fut u re Titan and Venus in situ missions using lighter-than-air vehicles \(Fig. 1\wo of its top three flagship mission priorities \(the Titan Explorer and Venus Mobile Explorer missions, respectively itu platforms are essential because of the dense clouds that cover Titan and Venus limiting orbital surveys The dense atmospheres at Titan and Venus enable the use of buoyant robotic vehicles \(aerobots\hat can be either selfpropelled \(airships\or wind-driven \(balloons 
vehicles can provide extensive, low-altitude geographical coverage over multi-month time scales with minimal consumption of scarce onboard electrical power   Airships have the scientific advantage of being able to fly to specific locations, while balloons are simpler in their design, but limited in their “go-to” capability. Advantages and disadvantages of different aerial vehicle designs for planetary exploration are assessed in [8 In this paper, we focus on the challenges involved in aerobot exploration of Titan and the required autonomy capabilities [4,5,6,7,8,9  W e  describe the aerobot autonom y architecture being developed at JPL, and discuss some of the key component technologies. We also show results from autonomous flight tests conducted in the Mojave desert 
2  S ATURN  S M OON T ITAN  Titan is the largest moon of Saturn, with a radius of 2,575 km. It has an atmosphere with a surface density of 5.55 kg/m 3 4.6 times the density of the Earth's atmosphere at sea level\, and an estimated composition of 95% nitrogen, 3 methane and 2% argon. The surface pressure is approximately 1.5 bar, and the gravity at the surface is 1.35 m/s 2 1/7 of the gravity of Eart h\perature is approximately –180 o C or 93 o K. The upper atmosphere of Titan has a thick haze, caused by sunlight-induced chemical 


  2 reactions of methane, which shrouds the surface of Titan from visual observation. Early Voyager fly-by observations and recent Hubble Space Telescope \(HST\ages in the near-infrared spectrum indicated the possible existence of continental masses composed of solid rock and frozen water ice, and of liquid bodies potentially composed of liquid ethane and meth Addi t i onal l ong-t e rm  observations have also provided indications of weather on Titan, including clouds and st orms. The successful descent of the Huygens probe to the surface of Titan on January 14 2005 has provided spectacular images of a very complex terrain, including river channels and drainage basins, sand dunes, and sierras \(Fig. 2    Figure 1. Lighter-Than-Air Vehicles for Solar System Exploration. Mission concepts discussed in the 2006 NASA Solar System Exploration Roadmap include a Titan wind-driven Montgolfiere balloon \(top self-propelled airship \(middle\Venus Mobile Explorer, an airship with a metal bellows envelope bottom Further images and scientific data being obtained from flybys by the Cassini spacecraft have unveiled a world with methane lakes, cryovolcanos, and a wide variety of other features \(Fig. 2    Figure 2. Geological structures identified on Titan. The upper left image was taken by the visual camera during Huygens descent, showing a river delta topography. The upper right image taken with the Cassini multispectral imager shows a cryovolcano \(in light color probably brings liquid water and methane to the surface. The middle image taken with the Cassini radar displayed in false color shows several large methane lakes in the northern lati tudes, and the lower radar image shows the coastline and numerous island groups at the edge of what is presumed to be a large methane sea. Sources: ESA/NASA/JPL/University of Arizona 


  3 3  A EROBOT A UTONOMY A RCHITECTURE  The main challenges for aerobot exploration of Titan include: large communication latencies, with a round trip light time of approximately 2.4 hours; extended communication blackout periods with a duration of approximately 8 Earth days, caused by the tidally locked rotation of Titan in its orbit around Saturn; extended mission duration, currently projected to be on the order of six months to one year; and operation in a substantially unknown environment, with very little data on wind patterns, meteorological conditions, and only low-resolution radar maps of surface topogra phy obtained from Cassini These challenges lead to several desired capabilities for a Titan aerobot: vehicle safing, so that the integrity of the aerobot can be ensured over the full duration of the mission and during extended communi cation blackouts; accurate and robust autonomous flight control, including deployment, long traverses, hovering/station-keeping, and touch-and-go surface sampling spatial mapping and selflocalization in the absence of a global positioning system on Titan; and advanced perceptual hazard and target recognition, tracking and visual servoing, allowing the aerobot to detect and avoid atmospheric and topographic hazards, and also to identify home in, and keep station over pre-defined science targets or terrain features. It should be noted, however, that a variety of mission scenarios can be implemented with a subset of these autonomy capabilities   In preparation for a future Titan mission, we are developing an aerobot autonomy architectur e that integrates accurate and robust vehicle and flight trajectory control, perceptionbased state estimation, hazar d detection and avoidance vehicle health monitoring and reflexive safing actions multi-modal vehicle localiza tion and mapping, autonomous science, and long-range mission planning and monitoring Fig. 3   Figure 3. Aerobot autonomy architecture with major subsystems Lower level functions in the autonomy architecture include sensor and actuator control, vehicle state estimation, flight mode control, supervisory flight control, and flight profile execution. Intermediate level functions include vehicle health monitoring, failure detection, identification and recovery \(FDIR\, flight trajectory and profile planning, and image-based navigation. The latter provides GPSindependent localization, as well as local and regional mapping. Higher-level functions include mission planning resource management, and mission execution and monitoring In this paper we concentrate on the flight control, vehicle simulation and onboard navigation systems. This includes development of a robust flight control system based on vehicle aerodynamic modeling, system simulation for robust control law development and testing, and vehicle system identification; and accurate vehicle multi-sensor state estimation methods, using both inertial and vision-based motion and position estimation 4  T HE JPL  A EROBOT T ESTBED  The current prototype JPL aerobot testbed \(Fig. 4\s based on an Airspeed Airship AS-800B  The ai rshi p specifications are: length of 11 m, diameter of 2.5 m, total volume of 34 m 3 two 2.3 kW \(3 hp 3 1.4 cu inch fuel engines, double catenary gondola suspension, control surfaces in an “X” configuration, maximum speed of 13 m/s 25 kts\maximum ceiling of 1000 m, average mission endurance of 60 minutes, static lift payload of 12 kg ASL and dynamic lift payload of up to 16 kg ASL. The avionics and communication systems are installed in the gondola The aerobot avionics system is built around a PC-104 computer architecture. The pr ocessor stack has a serial board interface to the navigation sensors, a PWM board for reading pulsewidth modulated signals from the human safety pilot and generating PWM signals based upon control surface commands from the avionics software, and an IEEE 1394 board for sending commands to, and reading image data from, the navigation and science cameras. Wireless serial modems provide data/control telemetry links between the aerobot and the ground sta tion, and additional video transmitters on the aerobot pr ovide downlinks of video imagery to the ground station. The safety pilot can always reassert “pilot override” control over the aerobot The navigation sensors currently consist of an IMU \(angular rates, linear accelerations\pass and inclinometer for absolute 3D position\sion sensors include two down-looking navigation cameras, one with a 360 o x 180 o field of view and another with a narrower F OV. Additionally, we have a laser altimeter \(surface relative altitude\a barometric altimeter \(absolute altitude ASL\d an ultrasonic anemometer \(for relative wind field measurements The ground station is composed of a laptop, a graphical user interface to the vehicle, wirele ss data and video links, video monitors and VCRs, and a differential GPS \(DGPS station that provides 3D vehicle position estimates with an 


  4 accuracy on the order of centimet ers. Field tests of the JPL aerobot are conducted at the El Mirage dry lake site in the Mojave desert \(Fig. 4 It should be noted that our testbed is not meant to be a high fidelity prototype of a Titan b limp, but rather a convenient platform for autonomy technology development   Figure 4: The JPL aerobot during autonomous flight tests. These flight tests were conducted at the El Mirage dry lake in the Mojave desert. The upper image shows liftoff, and the bottom image shows the airship in autonomous flight mode  5  A EROBOT A ERODYNAMIC M ODELING  The aerobot flight control system being developed is based on: \(1\system modeling, which includes aerodynamic airship sensor and actuator, and environmental modeling 2\stem identification for aerodynamic parameter estimation; \(3\model and control system validation in a physically based simulation environment; and \(4\flight testing on the aerobot testbed The aerodynamic model developed for the JPL airship is significantly different from fixed-wing or rotary-wing aircraft aerodynamic models, as the virtual mass and inertia properties of the displaced atmospheric volume are substantial when compared with those associated with the vehicle itself. Additionally, an aerobot is characterized by having different flight modes \(take-off/landing, stationkeeping/hovering, loitering, ascent/descent, high-speed cruise, low-speed flight require alternative actuator control strategies and flight control algorithms. Important airship flight control challenges include non-minimum phase behavior and oscillatory modes at low speeds, timevarying behavior due to altitude variations, and variable efficiency of the actuators depending on aerobot speed   We developed a new nonlinear robotic airship model intended for control system design and evaluation. The model brings together much of the previous airship modeling results available in the literature, and adds new elements to extend the model’s range of applicability. In addition, it is built from a systems-design-control interaction perspective, in which physical elements are parameterized to easily make design changes as control systems are designed and evaluated. The kinematic and dynamic equations of the model are based in part on Ref 14, and are not repeated here due to space constraints The aerodynamic model developed has the ability to characterize all four primary modes of flight \(launch, cruise hover, landing\ake the model as versatile as possible for changing flight conditions and optimization studies, all airship dimensions are given parametric definitions.  The reference frame for the airship is the hull center of volume and is defined using a North-East-Down orientation, as is typically done with aircraft Initial validation of the model was done running various simulations and assessing the vehicle.  We summarize below some of the results; a complete description of the model, a more extensive set of validation experiments, and the corresponding results are found in Ref. 14 Forward Motion Both thrusters were given a step input of 4 N with zero angle relative to the airship; the fins had zero deflection The airship had V 0 0 and started at an elevation of 5m. As expected, the airship initially pitches upward as it loses altitude \(Fig. 5 to the engines whereas the heaviness condition \(negative buoyancy\he vehicle causes the drop in elevation.  As the airship gains speed, the pitch angle begins oscillating about a positive value, creating aerodynamic lift as verified under field conditions Rudder Test Control surface behavior was tested by inputting a -20   deflection angle and repeating the previous test.  The angle represents the deflection of the upper port and upper starboard fins about their center axis. As previously described, the opposing fins are rigidly coupled. This results in a negative slip angle that moves the airship to port. The trajectory in the XY plane gradually converges to a circle Fig. 6, top\s is also shown in Fig. 6 \(bottom\, where the slip angle derivative appro aches zero.  In the XZ plane Fig. 6, center\e airship gains altitude due to the upward 


  5 pitch, as discussed before  Figure 5. Aerodynamic model simulation: forward motion.  The forward motion and the corresponding attack and pitch angles are shown. The z axis points up 6  S IMULATION SYSTEM  The aerobot aerodynamic model developed has been implemented both in Matlab, C, and using the DARTS/Dshell dynamics and real-time simulation system developed at JPL   The form er i s bei ng used for cont rol  system development, while the latter has been used to build a highly flexible simulation platform for aerobot missions The aerobot DARTS/Dshell simulator uses high-fidelity physics model for aerodynamics, mass properties buoyancy, kinematics, dynamics control surfaces, etc., and can also incorporate simulated sensor and a wide variety of terrain models. The aerodynamic model developed in C is integrated with the aerobot flight software and is currently being used for pre-flight controller validation. In the future this integrated model will allow for the use of Model Predictive Control Methods on the JPL Aerobot.    The models are parameterized, so that the simulation can be used to represent many types of airships. The initial implementation is based on parameters for the JPL aerobot We have also developed a GUI to operate the airship controls and monitor the airship response \(Fig. 7 Simulations can be run with or without the GUI. The modeling and implementation work has been largely completed, while the model and simulation validation has been started. A variety of system identification tests will be run using the actual JPL aerobot to obtain accurate estimates for a number of model parameters. Once this is done, the simulation platform can also be used to test control software    Figure 6. Aerodynamic model simulation: rudder deflection. The plots show control surface deflection equivalent to rudder actuation, resulting in a limit cycle flight trajectory. The z axis points up 


  6  Figure 7. Aerobot simulation system. The simulation system is based on the JP L Darts/Dshell dynamic realtime simulation environment 7  A UTONOMOUS F LIGHT C ONTROL  The autonomous flight system has a layered supervisory control structure \(Fig. 8\ oversees the main flight trajectory modes \(cruise, hover and loiter\ch use ascent, descent, turn and altitude controllers. These in turn command the vehicle attitude and thrust controllers. For an X-tail” configuration, the opposing tail surfaces \(1+3 and 2+4\ed in a coupled mode. This means there is no direct roll control, and also that “pure” elevator and rudder behavior is implemented through actuation of all four control surfaces  Vehicle Actuators  Pitch Yaw Roll V M  V M  Virtual Actuators Controllers Flight Path Control 1+3 CS 2+4 CS Throttle Vectoring Elevator Rudder Ascend Cruise Descend Hold Altitude Turn Flight Trajectory Execution Hover Loiter Supervisory Control Flight Mode Supervisory Control System  Figure 8.  Layered supervisory control structure of the aerobot flight cont rol system.  “CS” stands for the tail control surfaces, which are arranged in an “X” or ruddervator configuration. V M is the trust vector The first version of the onboard flight autonomy system has been implemented using PI controllers for pitch, yaw and altitude control and corresponds to the “controller” and flight path control” levels in the supervisory control architecture \(Fig. 8\e recently added PI controllers for throttle and currently are developing robust lead-lag controllers for pitch, yaw, and altitude control based on aerodynamic models, which will allow us to do accurate 3D trajectory execution. Throttle and thrust vector controllers for hovering operations are currently under development to be scheduled in at low airspeeds. We have also initiated work on using the full aerodynamic model and the associated simulation tools to develop a next generation set of robust controllers, which we expect will demonstrate tighter vehicle control and mo re accurate trajectory control under wind disturbances  Waypoint Flight Control At the flight trajectory execution control level in the supervisory control architecture \(Fig. 8\we have implemented a waypoint flight control system. Waypoints are specified by the operator who also sets the satisfying conditions that define when a waypoint has been considered reached. The approach used is called “orienteering”, where the control objective is define d in terms of reaching the waypoint, rather than in terms of the deviation from a given trajectory  Figure 9. Waypoint flight co ntrol. Top: three waypoints have been reached, with an operator-defined threshold of 25m to the GPS coordinates of the target. Bottom Waypoint flight control und er severe wind disturbances All waypoints were reached. A trajectory in red indicates that the vehicle is flying autonomously, while green indicates that the aerobo t is under pilot control 


  7 Fig. 9 shows autonomous waypoint flight control tests again conducted at El Mirage.  Fig. 9 \(top\point flight control for a sequence of 3 waypoints. A waypoint is specified as having been reached if the aerobot is within a Euclidean distance of 25m from the GPS waypoint coordinates. Atmospheric cond itions were moderate, with wind speeds below 5 knots. Fig. 9 \(bottom\ shows an autonomous flight test under substantial wind conditions with gusts up to 10 knots. The airship is blown off the direct waypoint route on several occasions when it is in a beam reach \(orthogonal tive to the wind direction Additionally, it is occasionally yawed off course when heading into or crossing the wind. Nevertheless, the autonomous flight control system was able, even under these severe wind disturbances, to visit all waypoints. We plan to address wind distur bances explicitly through the incorporation of an H  robust controller desi  8  I MAGE B ASED M OTION E STIMATION  Pose \(position and orientation in 6 DOF\and motion estimation is currently done by fusion of IMU and GPS data using a Kalman filter, allowing assessment of the vehicle flight control and trajectory following accuracy. To achieve global and regional localization on Titan in a GPSindependent manner, we are investigating both celestial trackers for ephemerides-based global position estimates and developing an image-based motion estimation \(IBME system with an associated multi-sensor state estimation filter that is used to fuse inertial and visual navigation estimat At t h i s poi nt onl y  i m agery  from  t h e downlooking camera is used \(Fig. 10 Initial results have been very encouraging. The IBME system developed gives us estimates of the pose and motion of the aerobot \(Fig. 11, top\s image mosaicking for visual mapping purposes \(Fig. 11, bottom\, and also recovers 3D terrain structure information An important open issue is the use and performance of an IBME system in support of vehicle localization under the actual lighting conditions on Titan. Estimates of daytime lighting conditions indicate that flight-qualified visual spectrum cameras would be adequate for IBME. We are currently investigating what conditions will be encountered for night time navigation, and whether cameras operating in infrared spectral bands would be required Another open issue is the impact of image texture on IBME performance. Images with few distinctive landmark features or patterns degrade IBME performance, a problem that is also directly related to camera resolution and sensitivity, as well as to the observation altitude of the aerobot. Titan sand dunes fields seem to display repetitive patterns, while hills and coastal areas have significant texture, and methane lake surfaces seem to be largely f eatureless \(except in some of the shallows, where the bottom ma y be visible\e plan to conduct further investigations into IBME performance for different surface texture conditions   Figure 10. Science and navigation cameras. The upper image is from the forward-looking science camera, while the lower image is from the down-looking navigation camera  9  C ONCLUSIONS  LTA systems are a strategic plat form for the exploration of planets and moons with an atmosphere, such as Venus Mars and Titan. Aerobots, in particular, can provide geographically extensive science data at high resolutions and over varied terrains to a degree that cannot be matched by surface-bound rovers or othe r aerial vehicles. At the same time, operation of an aerobot at Titan or other destination in the solar system imposes significant longterm autonomy requirements We outlined above an archit ecture for a substantially autonomous aerobot, described the current JPL aerobot testbed, and discussed initial steps towards the development of an aerobot flight control and navigation systems Our next steps include performing robust system identification, improving the flight control system robustness and accuracy, deve loping a trajectory following system for systematic surveys, and integrating vision-based 


  8 localization and navigation capabilities   Figure 11. Image-based motion estimation \(IBME Image sequences obtained from the down-looking navigation camera are registered to each other, allowing aerobot trajectory estimation \(top, in green mosaicking for regional vi sual mapping generation bottom\Scaling is obtained using altitude estimates from other sensors, such as barometric or laser altimeters. The blue patch \(to p of multiples images; units are in meters A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  The research described in this paper was performed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration \(NASA from the Intelligent Systems \(IS\gram \(SMD\d current funding from the Research and Technology Development \(RTD\ at JPL. The views and conclusions contained in this document are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing the official policies, either expressed or implied, of the sponsoring organizations R EFERENCES   Sol a r Sy st em Expl orat i on. Techni cal R e port  NASA Washington, DC, 2003   NASA 2006 Sol a r Sy st em Expl orat i on St rat e gi c Roadmap”. Technical Report, NASA, Washington, DC 2006  J. C u t t s P. B eaucham p, A. El fes, J. L. Hal l   T Johnson J. Jones, V. Kerzhanovich, A. Yavrouian and W Zimmerman. “Scientific Ballooning at the Planets”. In Proceedings of the 2004 COSPAR Conference. Paris, July 2004  J. L. Hal l  V. V. Kerzhanovi ch, J. A Jones J A C u t t s  A. A. Yavrouian, A. Colozza, R. D. Lorenz. “Titan Airship Explorer”, in Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference, IEEE, Big Sky, MT, March 2002   J. L. Hal l  A. El fes, T. Spi l k er, V. Kerzhanovi ch, J. F Montgomery. “Titan Aerobots: An Overview of Mission Scenarios and  Required Autonomy Technologies Whitepaper, JPL 2002  J. L. Hal l  V. V. Kerzhanovi ch, A H Yavroui an J A Jones, C.V. White, B. A. Dudik, G. A. Plett, J. Mennella and A. Elfes \(2004\ For Global In Situ Exploration of Titan”, 35th COSPAR Scientific Assembly Paris, France, July 20-24, 2004  A. El fes, J. L. Hal l  J. F. M ont gom ery  C   F B e rgh and B. A. Dudik. Towards a Substantially Autonomous Aerobot for Exploration of Titan. In Pr oceedings of the International Conference on Robotics and Automation \(ICRA 2004 IEEE, Las Vegas, May 2004  A. El fes et al R obot i c Ai rshi ps for Expl orat i on of Planetary Bodies with an Atmosphere: Autonomy Challenges”. Journal of Autonomous Robots, v. 14, n. 2/3 Kluwer Academic Publishers, The Netherlands, 2003   A El fes, J. Hal l  E. Kul czy cki  A. M o rfopoul os, J Montgomery, D. Clouse, D. Bayard, J. Cameron, R Machuzak, L. Magnone, C. Bergh, G. Walsh. “Autonomy Capability Development for a Titan Aerobot”. Fourth Annual International Planetary Probe Workshop \(IPPW-4 Pasadena, CA, June 2006   R   D. Lorenz. “Post C a ssi ni Expl orat i on of Ti t a n  Science Rationale and Mission Concepts”. In Journal of the British Interplanetary So ciety, vol. 53, UK, 2000  N. Fost er. Ai rspeed Ai rshi ps http://www.airspeedairships.com, 2003 


  9   S B  V. Gom e s. “An Invest i g at i on of t h e Fl i ght  Dynamics of Airships with Application to the YEZ-2A PhD thesis, College of Aeronautics, Cranfield University 1990   A El fes et al Percept i on, M odel l i ng and C ont rol for an Autonomous Robotic Airship”. In H. I. Christensen, G D. Hager \(eds.\Base d Intelligent Robots, SpringerVerlag, Berlin, 2001  J. Pay n e, S. S. Joshi  6 Degree-of-Freedom  NonLinear Robotic Airship Model for Autonomous Control Robotics, Autonomous Systems, and Controls Laboratory RASCAL\cal Report 040521, University of California, Davis, 21 May 2004 15 J. Balaram et al DSENDS  A Hig h Fid e lity Dynamics and Spacecraft Simulator for Entry, Descent and Surface Landing", IEEE 2002 Aerospace Conf., Big Sky Montana, March 2002   S I R oum el i o t i s A. E. Johnson, and J. F Montgomery. “Augmenting Inertial Navigation with ImageBased Motion Estimation”. In Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, Washington, DC, 2002 B IOGRAPHY  Dr. Alberto Elfes is a Principal Member of Technical Staff in the Mobility and Robotics Systems Section at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\eads projects in the areas of autonomous aerial vehicles for planetary exploration coordination and control of robot/robot and robot/human teams and space mission planning and architecture optimization. He has held positions as Director of the Automation Institute, Brazil, and as a research scientist at the IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, the Engineering Design Research Center and the Robotics Institute, CMU. Additionally, he has held university professorships in Brazil and Germany. He has an E.Eng degree in Electronics Engineering and an M.Sc. degree in Computer Science from the Aeronautics Institute of Technology \(ITA\razil, and a Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering, with concentration in Robotics from Carnegie-Mellon University. Dr. Elfes has over 100 publications in international journals, conferences and books, and has lectured extensively in North America Europe, Brazil and Japan. He is a recipient of the Mercator Professorship Award of the German Research Foundation DFG    


t t t t t t 26 26\ield values for apparent truth and apparent detections relative to the antenna and supports the calculation of 2 2 k D  Clustering and Centroiding Model Since energy from a target spreads into multiple range cells something must be done to combine detection primitives into a single measurement for each target.  Clustering selects detection primitives and centroiding combines clustered primitive data into a measurement.  The model presented here makes certain assumptions about the process that created the detection primitives.  For example, the model assumes a rectangular shaped ambiguity function cut and an exact c 2 f BW sampling interval.  Even with this simple detection model, closel y-spaced targets, false alarms and missed detections, clustering can be a challenge The simple model of clustering used for the simulated results first thresholds detection primitives based on the observed SNR R o culated by \(24\ to a threshold 27 Detectio n p r im itiv es th at rem ain  are clu s tered  an d  centroided based the number of consecutive range-cell indices occupied.  The simple clustering model considers three cases: a detection primitive with no range-cell-index neighbors, a pair of detecti on primitives with no neighbors except each other, and three or more consecutive range-cell indices.  These three cluster classes are shown in Figure 6 where they are named isolated pair, and CSO, respectively Centroiding treats each of th ese three cases differently Isolated Pair CSO Isolated Pair CSO  Figure 6 - Cluster cases For isolated clusters, the assumption of no additional information is used to produce a centroided measurement with values identical to the detection primitive.  Intuition about the uncertainty of an isolated cell seems to be at odds with this approach.  For example, if the SNR is high, the likelihood of the target being near the center of the range cell should also be high.  Th e assumption of no additional information seems to hold only when the cell\222s SNR is low and close to the detection threshold.  It turns out that 2 3 k D  can be used to examine algorith ms for the isolated-cell case and one of the examples looks at this problem CSO clusters violate the model assumption that target energy will spread to at most two consecutive range cells Thus, the cluster must contai n two or more closely-spaced targets or one target and a false alarm.  CSO clusters produce the same number of measurements as the number of detection primitives in the cluster and use values identical to the corresponding detection primitives.  Measurements from a CSO cluster are flagge d so that the tracker can differentiate between measurements from single-target clusters and CSO clusters.  Different rules govern how these measurements are used by th e tracker.  For example, the tracker may be allowed to in itiate and update a so-called CSO track with a CSO-cluster measurement but it may not be allowed to update a non-CSO track with a CSO-cluster measurement For pair clusters, the data in both detection primitives are used to produce a single centroided measurement and measurement variance.  The centroided measurement is simply the SNR weighted centroid of the two detection primitives expressed by \(27   1 2,,2,1,,1 2,,2,1,1 2,2,1,1 2,1     10            12 2 1 2 1  2 1 2 1  2 1 2 1      212 212 212  r r r r r r r+\r  adpy,oadp,yo adp,xoadp,,xo adp,oadp,o oo amy amx am k k k k R R k k R 27 27 The centroided variance is more involved because the same instrumentation noise is used for all detection primitives Subtracting the instrumentation noise variances from the antenna-relative detection primitives results in the same beam-relative variances used in \(26\roided standard deviations are calculated in \(28\Finally, \(29 adds in the instrumentation noise  r+\r r r r+\r r r r+\r r r  2,1 2 1 2,1 2 1 2,1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1    2 oo ko ko oo ko ko oo ko ko k k R bdp,y bdp,y bdp,x bdp,x bdpx bdp,x bmy bmx bm  resykyi resxkxi resRi k k R k k R kn kn Rn bdp,y bdp,x bdp adp,y adp,x adp  resykyi resxkxi resRi k k R k k R kn kn Rn bmy bmx bm amy amx am   Ukn Ukn URn k k R k k R resykyi resxkxi resRi bdp,y bdp,x bdp adp,y adp,x adp 25   2  2  2  2  22  2 2 2 2 2 2     t t t t t t t t t 28   2  2  2  2  22  2 2 2 2 2 2       t t t t t t 29 29\ield values for apparent truth and apparent clustered and centroided measurements relative to the antenna and supports the calculation of 2 3 k D    


017 32   00 0 0 00 2 2 2     T j k k R ji iamy iamx iam HHP S  212 212  11 Assignment and Filtering Turning off the effects and corrections due to sensorregistration bias and atmospheric refraction allows the consistency of the measurem ent-to-track assignment and track filtering algorithms to be studied.  The example results use the Jonker-Volgenant algorithm  t o  sol v e t h e global-nearest-neighbor assignment between centroided measurements and tracks.  Th e cost matrix {Ci,j}  is populated according to the rela tionships in \(30 33 j x 210 and j P are state estimate and covariance respectively for track j extra polated to the measurement time h 225\measurement function that transforms the state estimate into the measurement frame and H is a Jacobian matrix that transforms the track-state covariance into the measurement frame    016 212 30  017 006 016 212  S 31    jieji C   log  t t t 33 33\and processing the measurements with a standard extended Kalm   2 8 k D  4  N UMERICAL S IMULATION AND R ESULTS  A simulation model designed around the data-flow diagram shown in Figure 4 supports a variety of consistency investigations.  Some of these investigations were inspired by algorithm errors detected a nd correct with this technique Other investigations are open ended in that they point out places where further algorithm improvements are needed The results presented in the examples only consider random effects that vary from pulse to pulse or dwell to dwell.  If covariance consistency cannot be obtained at this scale, then there is little hope of getting it right over an ensemble of Monte Carlo trials The scenario used in the examples consists of an ESR Xband radar tracking an incoming ballistic target.  The target range relative to the radar varies from ~380 km to ~25 km The target\222s RCS is large enough so that waveform control maintains an SNR close to the goal SNR of 25 dB.  The target\222s mean RCS and percent scintillation changes as the aspect angle varies from ~50\260 to ~0.6\260 over its trajectory The sine-space azimuth is n early constant varying from 0.70 to ~0.56 at apogee to ~0 66.  The sine-space elevation varies over a wider range from ~-0.40 to ~0.11 at apogee to 0.07.  Under these conditions tracking error is fairly small so that the target is track ed near beam center.  One exception to beam-center track ing occurs in the first example where different values for beam-steering offsets are added on purpose Targets Away from Beam Center Consider the difference in Fi gure 7 between measurements that occur on or near beam center where the monopulse response is approximately linear versus measurements that occur closer to the edge where the monopulse response is curved.  The monopulse response transforms uncertainty in y I into uncertainty in DOA Near beam center a Gaussian uncertainty in y I results in a Gaussian uncertainty in DOA Closer to the edge, the monopulse response distorts y I 222s uncertainty so that the DOA\222s un certainty is both biased and no longer Gaussi  Unless some compensation is applied, it is expected that the covariance consistency will be better near the beam\222s center compared to the edge.  Indeed, plots of consistency versus distance from beam center in Fi gure 8 match expectations The order of plots from top to bottom and the legend order are the same.  A value equal to 1 is consistent while a value greater than 1 implies that th e reported covariance is smaller than the uncertainty in the data.  To generate these curves constant beam-point offsets of 0, 1%, 5%, 10%, and 12.5 of the 3dB beamwidth were added to the elevation direction of the nominal beam point.  A sliding window of 50 points was used to calculate the average 2 1 k D values plotted in the curves     On Beam Center Gaussian Gaussian Gaussian Non-Gaussian and Biased Off Beam Center y I DOA     On Beam Center Gaussian Gaussian Gaussian Non-Gaussian and Biased Off Beam Center y I DOA  Figure 7 - Measurements on the monopulse curve One notable feature of Figure 8 is the sensitivity.  There is fairly significant degradation at a modest 5% offset.  As  212 j iamy iamx iam ji T j iamy iamx iam ji k k R k k R xh Sxh 210 210    1     2   2    5.0exp 2 1 ji ji ji 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


