A Framework for Integrating a Decision Tree Learning Algorithm and Cluster Analysis  Masaki KUREMATSU  and Hamido FUJITA    Faculty of Software and Information Science Iwate Prefectual University, Takizawa, Japan kure, issam}@iwate-pu.ac.jp   Abstract 227 We proposed a modified decision tree learning algorithm to improve this al gorithm in this paper. Our proposed approach classifies gi ven data set by a traditional decision tree learning algorithm and cluster analysis and selects whichever is better according to information gain. In order to evaluate ou r approach, we did an experiment using program-generated data sets We compared ID3 which is 
one of well-known decision t ree learning algorithm to our approach about the recall ratio in this experiment Experimental result shows the recall ratio of our approach is similar than the recall ratio of a traditional decision tree learning algorithm. Though we can not show the advantage of our approach according to the experiment, we show it is worth using cluster analysis to make a decision tree. In future, we have to evaluate our approach according to crossvalidation method using big and complex data sets in order to say the advantage of our approach. We think our approach is not good for all data set, so we try to find the situation which our approach is better than other approaches according to the experimental results. In addition to, we have to show how to explain a decision tree by our approach to keep the rea 
dability of a decision tree I  I NTRODUCTION  A decision Tree learning algorithm is one of wellknown supervised machine learning algorithms. The purpose of this algorithm is to make a decision tree from transaction data set. A decision tree shows a set of classification rules which show how to decide a class label of each data item based on attribute values. We can use these rules to classify new data items. Though there are some statistical methods or machine learning algorithms to extract rules from data set, for example, SVM \(support vector machine [1 Artific ial Neu r al n etwo r k s [2  analysts and researchers often use this algorithm. One of reasons is that it is easy to understand a decision tree made by this algorithm. The other reason is that there are some 
tools we can use this algorithm, for example, Weka [3 R  S [5]. So som e res earches use this algorithm in many research filed, such as marketing, psychology and medical [6  There are some issues abou t a decision tree learning algorithm, though analysts and researchers use this algorithm to analysis huge data. One well-known issue is that we need good training data set to use this algorithm The accuracy rate of a decisi on tree depends on training data set. If there is big difference between training data set and target data set we want to classify, a decision tree made from training data doesn\222t work and the accuracy rate of it is not appropriate. However, it is not easy to prepare good training data set before learning. So we need 
to improve a decision tree learning algorithm to manage the impact of training data set We had been trying to improve a decision tree learning algorithm. First approach was that we made a decision tree for a class label one by In t h i s  appr oach, we  rearranged a class label of each data items before making a decision tree. We selected a class label and replaced other labels to \223not this class\224. Next, we made decision trees for each class. The numb er of decision tree is same as the number of class labels. When we predicted a class label of new data, we selected a class label which the prediction rate was highest in all decision trees. Our experimental results about this approach indicated the possibility that our approach improved a decision tree learning algorithm. However, we could not say that we 
solved issues about a decision tree learning algorithm Second approach was that we divide training data set and make a decision tree using divided data set I n t h i s  approach, we think class labels of training data set were too rough. So we split given data set into some data subset using a class label. All data items in each dataset has same class label. Next, we divided each data subsets by a cluster analysis. Therefore, we di vided each class into more detailed ones. We made a decision tree using training data set with more detail class labels. This experimental result indicated the possibility of our approach, but we could not say that we solved issues ab out a decision tree learning algorithm, too. Third approach was that we classified leaf nodes in a decision tree by clus 
ter analysis to optimize the size of l In t h i s appr oach, we cl assi fied dat a  set based on two relations. One is the relation between a class label and an attribute and the other is the relation between attributes. First relation is used in a traditional decision tree learning algorithm and second relation is used in cluster analysis. Experimental result showed the possibility that our approach was better than a traditional decision tree learning algorithm. So it is worth enhancing this approach to solve issues about a decision tree learning algorithm In this paper, we propose a framework for decision tree learning embedding cluster analysis. We think this approach based on our third approach. The difference between our third approach and the proposed approach is 
how to use cluster analysis. Though, in third approach, we use cluster analysis when we can not split data set by a decision tree learning algorithm, we use cluster analysis whenever we try to split given data set. In other words, we embed cluster analysis in a decision tree learning algorithm Next section describes our approach in detail. Section 3 describes the experiment for evaluation our research. We also describe discussion about our approach according to 225 SoMeT 2013 € 12th IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Software \Methodologies, Tools and Techniques € September 22-24, 2013, Budapest, H\ungary 978-1-4799-0421-1/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 


the experimental result and future works in this section Finally, we conclude this paper in Section 4 II  A  F RAMEWORK FOR D ECISION T REE L EARNING W ITH C LUSTER A NALYSIS  A decision tree learning algorithm tries to divide data set based on an attributes. It doesn\222t think two or more than attributes on same time. We think it is a week point of a decision tree learning algorithm. Our new approach tries to divide data set based on attributes using cluster analysis. Our idea is simple. Whenever we divide data set we do it by a decision tree learning algorithm and cluster analysis and select better on e. In order to compare the results of these algorithms, we use information gain  as criteria.  Information gain shows how much the entropy decreases if an attribute value is defined.  In other words it shows which attribute is better to classify data set. We 2\nd \(3     m j n k j j j n i i i Y vYXPvYXPvYPYXH PPXH YXHXHgain 11 2 1 2 log log   1  2  3  Where X is given data set and Y is an attribute H\(X is the entropy of X  H\(X|Y is the entropy of X when Y decided n is the number of class in X m is the number of Y 222s value We show our proposed algorithm in Figure 1. We explain it as follow Input of this function is data-set and path. Output of it is a set of paths that includes a given path 1  If all data items in given data set have same class label this algorithm stops and returns path 2  This algorithm tries to split given data set by decision tree learning algorithm. This algorithm calculates the information gain of every attribute using the given data set. It splits the given data set into subsets using the attribute for which information gain is maximum value We regard these subsets as candidate subsets, i.e candidate child nodes. We show the maximum information gain as \223gain d 224 3  This algorithm tries to split the given data set into clusters by cluster analysis as candidate data subsets i.e. candidate child nodes. It calculates the information gain of clusters. We show this value as \223gain c 224 4  If \223gain d 224 is more than \223gain c 224, this algorithm accepts datasets by a decision tree learning algorithm as data subsets. It makes edges using the selected attributes value and an operator. Otherw ise, it accepts clusters as data subsets. It makes edges centroid values of each cluster. It could add additional paths by adding a defined path to an edge related to data sets 5  This algorithm split every data subsets recursively III  E XPERIMENTS  A  Overview of our experiments In order to evaluate our approach, we compare the performance of our approach to the performance of a traditional decision tree algorithm. At first, we make a decision tree using each approach and classify same data set by them. Next, we divide the number of data predicted correctly by the number of all data items to get the recall ratio of the decision tree. If the recall ratio of our approach is higher than the recall ratio of a traditional decision tree learning algorithm, we can say that our approach has advantage. We also compare these decision trees. We explain the outline of our experiment in next paragraph We make some data group using a program. Each data group has 60 data items which has 2 attributes defined by formula \(4\ed on the Box\226Muller transform   mYX mYX Z Z 2sin\(\log 2cos\(\log 2 1  4   Where X and Y are probability values from the uniform distribution on the interval \(0  Th e B ox\226M ul l e r transform is a pseudo-random number sampling method for generating pairs of independent, standard, normally distributed random numbers, given a source of uniformly distributed random numbers  and m are parameters of this formula influence the range of value and m  influence the center of distribution. We make 6 data groups in Figure 2 When we evaluate our approach, we make pair of data groups as data set To do this experiment, we implemented our approach by C programming language. There are some decision tree learning algorithms and cluster analysis algorithms. We need to adjust our idea for selected algorithms. In this paper, we use ID3 as a deci si on t r ee and K-M eans   as cl ust e r anal y s i s ID3 m a kes a bi nary deci si on t r ee  so we defined K of K-means as 2. When we divide data set by K-Means, we have to decide two seed data items  function DTCL\(data-set, path  if the number of class label in data-set = 1 then  return path  else Set D  Split given dataset by Deci sion Tree Learning Algorithm gain D  Information Gain\( Set D  Set C  Split given dataset by Cluster Analysis gain C  Information Gain\( Set C   if gain D gain C  then  n Set D   data-subset[1 Set D edge[1..n a condition formula cons ists of selected the attribute and an operator  else  n Set C   data-subset[1 Set C for i=1 to n do edge[i  centroid  of data-s  endif for i=1 to n do DTCL\(data-subset[i  path+edge[i   endif Figure 1  The Algorithm of Making a Decision Tree Embedding Cluster Analysis M. Kuremts and H. Fujita € A Framework for Integrating a Decision Tree L\earning Algorithm and Cluster Analysis 226 


We do it as following. At first, we find the attribute whose variance is the largest. Next, we select 2 data items. One has the minimum value of the selected attribute and the other has the maximum value of this attribute. We use these data items as seed for K-Means. In addition to, we calculate the distance between data items by Euclidian distance  1 m\=\(1,0\               #2 m\=\(1,1\ \(1,-1\    #3 m\=\(1,2\\(1-2  4 m\=\(0.5,0\        #5 m\=\(0.5,1\,\(0.5,-1\  #6 m\=\(0.5,2\\(0.5,-2 Figure 2  6 data groups based on the Box-Muller transform B  The Result of experiments We show the part of the result of this experiment as Table 1. Each decision tree made by our approach in this table has nodes made by Cluster Analysis. \223ID3\224 and 223Our Approach\224 show the numb er of data item evaluated correctly and the recall ratio by each algorithm respectively. \224CA Nodes\224 shows nodes made by Cluster Analysis in a decision tr ee. \223UPDOWN\224 shows the number of correct data by our approach minus the number of correct data by ID3 TABLE I   E XPERIMENTAL R ESULT  Case Pair ID3 Our Approach CA Nodes UP DOWN 1 #1,#2 80 67 80 67 0 0 2 #1,#3 88 73 88 73 0 0 3 #1,#4 87 72 87 72 0 0 4 #1,#5 88 73 88 73 0 0 5 #1,#6 90 75 90 75 0 0 6 #2,#3 84 70 84 70 1 0 7 #2,#4 91 76 91 76 0 0 8 #2,#5 81 68 82 68 1 1 9 #2,#6 84 70 84 70 0 0 10 #3,#4 90 75 90 75 0 0 11 #3,#5 91 76 91 76 0 0 12 #3,#6 82 68 82 68 0 0 13 #4,#5 86 72 86 72 0 0 14 #4,#6 90 75 90 75 0 0 15 #5,#6 87 72 87 72 0 0  C  Discussion According to the result of this experiment, the recall ratio of our approach is similar than the recall ratio of ID3 There is one case where our a pproach is better than ID3 However the difference between our approach and ID3 is very small. There are two decision trees have nodes made by cluster analysis. Though our approach increased the recall ratio in case #8, it didn\222t change the recall ration in case #6.  Figure 3 shows the distribution of data items in case #8. In this figure, \223o\224 sh ows data items classified in correct class by both decision trees and \223n\224 shows data items classified in wrong class by both decision trees We analyzed these decision tr ees. There is no difference between ID3 and our approach about data items\222 class label in case #6. Otherwise, three data items which classified in correct class w ith ID3 were classified in wrong class with our approach in case #8. We show these data items as \223i\224 in figure 3. Four data items which classified in wrong class w ith ID3 were classified in correct class with our approach in case #8. We show these data items as \223k\224 in figure 3. Figure 3 shows they are close. The experimental result says that the difference between a decision tree made by our approach and a decision tree made by ID3 is small. In order to check this we classified all data groups with ID3 and our approach respectively. ID3 algorithms classified 174 data items correctly and the recall ratio is 0.48. Our approach classified 175 data items corr ectly and the recall ratio is 0.49. The decision tree made by our approach has 2 nodes made by cluster analysis. We think our approach is better than ID3 according to data sets Figure 3  Distribution of data items in case #8 To get the relation between our approach and data set we compared the experiment al result to the result of analysis using k-nearest neighbor algorithm \(k-NN\[1  We defined k as 3. Table 3 shows the result of comparison among two decision tree learning algorithms and kNN 223kNN\(#\ws the number of data items classified correctly with kNN and \223kNN\(recall\recall ratio of kNN. Bold letters shows kNN is better than decision tree learning algor ithms. \223Average\224 shows the average of the entropy of 3 ne arest data items of each data item and \223SD\224 shows the standard distribution of this entropy. If average is small, most of nearest data items are in same class. The correla tion coefficient between the recall ratio and average is -0.82. The correlation coefficient between recall ratio and SD is -0.76. These values say that there is strong negative correlation between the recall ratio and these values. This result is within the scope of the assumption. If data items which have same data label gather, the entropy becomes small 227 SoMeT 2013 € 12th IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Software \Methodologies, Tools and Techniques € September 22-24, 2013, Budapest, H\ungary 


and it is easy to split dataset. So, we can not find the explicit point for using our approach TABLE II   C OMPARISON AMONG DECISION TREES AND K NN Case ID3 Our kNN kNN\(recall Average SD 1 80 80 77 64% 0.54 2.37 2 88 88 107 89% 0.18 1.41 3 87 87 86 72% 0.47 2.22 4 88 88 85 71% 0.45 2.18 5 90 90 112 93% 0.06 0.82 6 84 84 76 63% 0.48 2.25 7 91 91 100 83% 0.25 1.65 8 81 82 66 55% 0.52 2.34 9 84 84 80 67% 0.38 2.02 10 90 90 116 97% 0.03 0.58 11 91 91 110 92% 0.08 0.96 12 82 82 69 58% 0.56 2.42 13 86 86 99 83% 0.23 1.57 14 90 90 120 100% 0 0 15 87 87 110 92% 0.15 1.29  Our experiment result shows it is worth using a cluster analysis in a decision tree le arning algorithm. However we can not say our approach is useful. In order to show the advantage of our approach, we do some following works in future. One is that we have to evaluate our approach. We classified small and simple data sets and evaluated the recall ratio. We have to evaluate our approach by cross-validation method using big and complex data sets, i.e. open data sets in machine learning repository powered by University of California Irvine. We think our approach is not good for every data set, so we try to find the situation which our approach is better than other approaches acco rding to the experimental results. In addition to, we have to show how to explain a decision tree by our approach. A decision tree made by our approach has nodes made by cluster analysis. We can not explain paths include these nodes in a same way. We should keep the readability of a decision tree, so we should ready how to explain paths in a decision tree. We continue to modify our approach based on the result of analysis of experimental results. We have to do spirally IV  C ONCLUSIONS  In this paper, we proposed a modified decision tree learning algorithm to improve it. Our proposed approach classifies given data set by a traditional decision tree learning algorithm and cluster analysis and selects whichever has the greater information gain. In order to evaluate our approach, we did an experiment using program-generated data sets. We compared ID3 which is one of traditional decision tree learning algorithms to our approach about the recall ra tio in this experiment Experimental result shows the recall ratio of our approach is similar than the recall ratio of ID3. Though we can not show the advantage of our approach according to this experiment, we evaluate it is worth using cluster analysis to make a decision tree. In future, we have to evaluate our approach according to crossvalidation method using big and complex data sets. We think our approach is not good for all data set, so we try to get features of data set which show our approach is better than other approaches according to the experimental results. In addition to, we have to show how to explain a decision tree by our approach to keep the readability of a decision tree A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was supported by Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research \(C\24500121. Part of this research was done as part of the Master thesis of Ms Saori AMANUMA who completed her master degree at the school of Software and Information Science of Iwate Pr efectural University \(IPU We thank Dr. Jun Hakura of IPU for his constructive comments that could contribute in having better revision on this work R EFERENCES  1  Cortes Corinna and Vapnik Vladimir N, "Support-Vector Networks", Machine Learning, 20\(1995 2  Rosenblatt, Frank, \223Principles of Neurodynamics\224, Spartan Books 1962 3  Weka 3 - Data Mining with Open Source Machine Learning Software in Java, http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka/ \(Access 2013/06/12 4  The R Project for Statistical Computing,  http://www.r-project.org Access : 2013/06/12 5  IBM SPSS software http://www-01.ibm.com/software/analytics/spss Access: 2013/06/12 6  Mirjana Peji Bach, Dijana osi 223Data mining usage in health care management: literature survey and decision tree application\224 Medicinski Glasnik, Vol.5, No. 1,PP.57-64 \(2008 7  Masaki Kurematu Jun Hakura, Hamido Fujita An Extraction of Emotion in Human Speech Using Speech Synthesize and Each Classifier for Each Emotion WSEAS TRANSACTIONS on INFORMATION SCIENCE & APPLICATIONS Vol.3, No. 5 pp. 246-251\(2008 8  Masaki KUREMATSU, Saori AMANUMA, Jun HAKURA and Hamido FUJITA , \223An Extraction of Emotion in Human Speech Using Cluster Analysis and a Regression Tree\224, Proceedings of 10th WSEAS International Conf erence on Applied Computer Science, pp.346-350\(2010 9  Saori Amanuma, Masaki Kurematsu and Hamido Fujita An Idea of Improvement Decision Tree Learning Using Cluster Analysis The 11th International Conference on Software Methodologies, Tools and T echniques, pp.351-360\(2012 10  Quinlan, J. R.  \223Induction of D ecision Trees\224, Machine  Learning Vol.1, No.1,pp.81-106\(1986 11  J. B. MacQueen, "Some Methods for classification and Analysis of Multivariate Observations Proceedings of 5th Berkeley Symposium on Mathematical Statistics and Probability, pp. 281297\(1967 12  G. E. P. Box and Mervin E. Muller, \223A Note on the Generation of Random Normal Deviates\224, The Annals of Mathematical Statistics Vol. 29, No. 2 pp. 610\226611\(1958 13  L. Breiman, J. H. Friedman, R. A. Olshen and C. J Stone, \224Classification and Re gression Trees\224, Wadsworth International Group, \(1984 14  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, \223Nearest neighbor pattern classification.\224, IEEE Trans Inform. Theory, IT-13\(1 1967 15  UCI Machine Learning Repository http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/,  \(Access : 2013/05/29   M. Kuremts and H. Fujita € A Framework for Integrating a Decision Tree L\earning Algorithm and Cluster Analysis 228 


                                                                                                                13 


                                   14 


                                                                                                                      15 


                                                                                                                                                            16 


   9 extreme radiation environment could induce faults i n these components that can only be cleared by the removal and reapplication of power termed off-pulsing The FM S implements an off-pulsing architecture that provide s offpulsing capabilities to clear faults in the transce iver IEM and PDU. Mechanisms are provided to allow individua l offpulsing of any of these components in Operational M ode. In addition to address a safety net for unknown fault s the FMS can reset the entire system by off-pulsing all three of these critical components simultaneously in Safe Mo de In general, the off-pulsing of any single component is handled in Operational Mode as a response to a less severe fault while the off-pulsing of all three components is ha ndled in Safe Mode as a response to the expiration of the ha rdware command loss timer i.e the spacecraft has not re ceived a specific command from the ground in 3.6 days  All off-pulse requests are routed through the PDU with the PDU implementing a specific hardware command sequen ce for each off-pulse type The off-pulse mechanism is  designed to be fault-tolerant with a single fault r esulting in at most a single off-pulse cycle  The FM architec ture utilizes the following off-pulse requests: IEM requ est to offpulse transceiver via software command loss timer SWCLT    t r a n s c e i v e r  r e q u e s t  t o  o f f p u l s e  I E M   v i a  RF CCD command transceiver request of off-pulse PDU via RF CCD command and hardware command loss timer HWCLT request to off-pulse PDU IEM and transcei ver as shown in Figure  8   Figure 8:  Top Level Off-Pulsing Architecture  2.4.2.3  Limited Instrument Fault Management The final high-level requirement that drives the mo des and safing approach is limited instrument FM.  The FMS is decoupled from the science instruments Instrument FM  is limited to the monitoring of instrument power draw power down request and heartbeat The instrument generat es and provides the spacecraft with status information in the Interface Transfer Format ITF Instrument status includes power-down requests and an instrument aliveness cou nter An instrument power-down request or frozen alivenes s indicator results in the removal of operational pow er from the instrument within a pre-defined number of secon ds In the event of an instrument over-current/over-power condition the instrument is immediately powered of f with no advanced warning Over-current/over-power protec tion is handled with a combination of autonomy rules and  resettable circuit breakers located in the PDU To protect against hard shorts the PDU monitors current and i f the load current exceeds a threshold for 4 ms, the circ uit breaker opens the switch and power is immediately removed f rom the instrument Autonomy rules protect against soft  shorts by monitoring a lower power threshold for a longer duration  In addition spacecraft anomalous conditions such a s low battery state of charge low voltage sense or exte nded loss of communication result in all instruments being immediately powered off with no advanced shutdown warning Therefore instruments must be designed to  be immediately powered-off from any internal mode in t he event of an instrument over-current or spacecraft a nomalous condition For a violation of the spin-axis Sun-lin e angle the instruments receive a 15 second shutdown warnin g before being powered off. Any additional FM measure s that are specific to the instruments are the responsibil ity of the instruments themselves 2.4.3  Ground Intervention Concept The high-level requirement for limited on-board FM drives the ground intervention concept In an effort to ke ep the FMS as simple as possible on-board FM is minimized  by taking advantage of inherent mission design charact eristics and spacecraft design decisions The spacecraft are  spin stabilized with spin-axis 15-27 deg off the Sun Th e nearSun pointed attitude is the only attitude required to collect the prime science measurements and requires only pe riodic precession maneuvers every ~21days for the duration of the mission in order to be maintained The periodic pre cession maneuvers are dictated by the Earth’s orbital motio n around the Sun with maneuvers performed when the total Su n offset angle reaches maximum value This orbit offe rs a number of design advantages 1 when combined with antenna coverage out to 70 deg from both sides of s pin-axis frequent ground contacts more than 1/day with neg ligible communication delays are possible, 2\ the near-Sun pointed attitude ensures adequate power generation when att itude is maintained within the maximum offset angle and 3 the inherently stable spin state requires infrequent ad justments to maintain the spacecraft’s orientation allowing for openloop attitude control  Since the RBSP spacecraft are near-Sun pointing spi nners inherently stable with open-loop attitude control  there is no on-board capability for the G&C subsystem to autonomously point the spacecraft which significan tly reduces the amount of on-board autonomy required I n general, on-board autonomy is comprised of dedicate d rules that take simple actions such as powering off a com ponent or resetting a component. When possible, the FMS me asures are allocated to hardware to reduce the size of the on-board autonomy rule set Finally the frequent ground con tacts with negligible communication delays allow the burd en for fault correction and recovery to be placed on the g round 


   10 3  Verification  As a distributed system the verification of the RB SP FM requirements was also distributed Verification of subsystem-level FM requirements were captured in th e various subsystem verification plans with buy-in f rom the RBSP FM lead engineer Verification of system-level  FM requirements were performed on the spacecraft and l ed by the FM lead engineer  Requirements for the RBSP mission are organized hierarchically, based upon the mission’s product br eakdown structure as shown in Figure 9 Requirements are d efined from the mission-level directly to the element-leve l in order to avoid the creation of too many documentation lay ers In addition to the requirement level the requirements  tree is also organized according to requirement type i.e  performance/measurement mission assurance environmental, and interface requirements  Figure 9: RBSP Mission Product Breakdown Structure  The FM requirements are distributed and flow down f rom the Mission Requirements Document MRD to the element-level and then to the subsystem-level The FM requirements are categorized as performance/measure ment requirements which are captured in various requirem ents documents or as interface requirements which are ca ptured in interface control documents ICD Figure 10 sho ws the hierarchy of FM requirements and the categorization  of those requirements   Figure 10: Hierarchy of Fault Management Requirements  Although FM requirements may be verified using test  analysis, demonstration, inspection, or some combin ation of these the preferred verification method for FM requirements is test. The verification of FM requir ements is accomplished through an integrated hierarchical app roach comprised of a series of verification activities D uring the Integration and Test I&T phase verification prog resses from individual components and subsystems to integr ated segments and upward to the entire mission system Individual components are verified by their provide rs against the corresponding component and subsystemlevel fault management requirements The FM lead engineer  has oversight authority over these lower-level FM verif ication activities and has access to all generated verifica tion records and reports. In addition, the FM team performs syst em-level scenario testing and supports mission simulations a nd I&T special tests in order to verify the system-level  i.e mission- and element-level\ FM requirements  The FM team has oversight authority over lower-leve l FM verification activities and reviewed the verificati on plans for spacecraft subsystem and science instrument teams which were allocated FM requirements to ensure that FM requirements are adequately verified FM requiremen ts allocated to hardware \(i.e., spacecraft or ground are verified during box-level and subsystem-level acceptance tes t The individual subsystem teams are responsible for desi gning and running tests that verify these subsystem-level  fault management requirements FM requirements allocated to spacecraft flight software or ground software are v erified by independent acceptance test at the flight software testbed level The Independent Acceptance Test IAT team i s responsible for designing and running the tests tha t verify these subsystem-level FM requirements The tests us ed to perform the verification are typically black box requirements-based tests FM requirements allocated  to spacecraft rule-based autonomy are verified by the autonomy team and autonomy developers on the flight  software testbeds, high-fidelity hardware simulator s, and the spacecraft. The autonomy test campaign is comprised of two phases autonomy unit test phase and autonomy path verification phase Autonomy unit testing is perfor med on the flight software testbeds early in the autonomy development and involves standalone testing of the individual autonomy objects i.e rule macro com puted telemetry, and storage variable\. The goal of the u nit testing is to identify defects such as coding errors before  the autonomy objects are assembled into a complete deli verable autonomy system.  At the conclusion of the unit tes t phase the autonomy system is delivered to the spacecraft and the path verification phase begins Note the autonomy path verification testing is on the leading-edge of the FM scenario testing The autonomy path verification t esting takes place during spacecraft I&T with the purpose of exercising the autonomy system on flight hardware a nd verifying all of the sensor interfaces i.e senso r data used by autonomy rules and computed telemetry and all 


   11 commands emitted by the autonomy system to the flig ht hardware from autonomy macros The paths are independently verified on both spacecraft rather th an endorsing a verification by similarity approach FM requirements allocated to the ground system are ver ified by operational procedure, operational constraint, or b y mission simulation Verification of requirements using oper ational procedure are performed by inspection of the signed off procedure document Verification of requirements us ing operational constraint are performed by inspection of the RBSP Operations Constraint Document Finally verification of requirements using mission simulati ons are performed by test at the observatory level or the h igh fidelity hardware simulator  The FM team has overall responsibility for coordina ting the mission- and element-level verification plans and a ctivities The resulting verification program ensures that the  FMS satisfies the functional requirements and is in con formance with the mission and operational concepts defined f or FM The FM team is responsible for establishing, review ing, and approving all FM verification activities and method s planned for requirements specified at the mission and element-level. All mission- and element-level funct ional and performance requirements will be verified by one or  more appropriate methods prior to launch with closure s tatus tracked in the DOORS requirements database system Whenever possible FM requirements at the mission and element-level are verified by test The FM team is responsible for designing and performing system-lev el scenario tests that verify the mission- and element level FM requirements In addition some FM requirements are  verified using mission simulations which are led by  the Mission Operations Team MOT or I&T special tests which are led by the I&T Team. System-level scenari o tests are developed, designed, and performed by the FM te am to verify mission and element-level FM requirements  The system-level FM tests are scenario based tests that  are similar to mission simulations except that one or m ore faults are injected during the simulation the scenario te sts are black-box requirements-based tests For each scena rio the test must 1 prove that the spacecraft can perform  the scenario correctly \(i.e., without fault injection and \(2\ prove that the spacecraft can recover from the injected f ault to a state in which the MOT can return the spacecraft to nominal operations  As a distributed system the FM test campaign is di vided into two distinct phases as shown in Figure 11 Th e first phase is the subsystem-level test phase in which th e individual subsystems design and run tests to verif y and close their subsystem-level FM requirements \(i.e hardware flight software and autonomy At the conclusion o f the subsystem-level test phase the subsystems are cons idered ready to be delivered to spacecraft I&T and are ava ilable for the second phase of the FM test campaign The secon d phase is the system-level test phase that exercises the FMS as a whole on both spacecraft during I&T. The syste m-level tests serve two purposes 1 verification of missi on and element-level FM requirements and 2 validation of  subsystem-level FM requirements Note  subsystem-l evel FM requirements are verified and closed at the subs ystemlevel prior to I&T      Figure 11:  Fault Protection Test Campaign Overview   System-level scenario testing is performed by the F M team and consists of a series of spacecraft scenarios T he objective of the system-level scenario tests is to verify mission and element-level FM requirements in addi tion many of the subsystem-level requirements are also v alidated as a result of verifying the system-level requireme nts The FM scenario testing consists of three tiers of test ing Tier one tests must be performed on both spacecraft two times baseline and launch site are included on the incompressible test list and are regression tested  on both spacecraft if a hardware configuration change or a significant FSW change affects the test. Tier two t ests must be performed on both spacecraft at least once \(base line\, are included on the incompressible test list and are r egression tested on the high-fidelity hardware simulator or t he affected spacecraft if a hardware configuration cha nge or a significant FSW change affects the test Finally t ier three tests are performed on both spacecraft once \(baseli ne  The baseline configuration for FM scenario testing is when the spacecraft bus is complete with a goal of havi ng instruments integrated The test platform for the b aseline FM testing is I&T; this allows the FMS \(i.e., space craft bus hardware C&DH flight software autonomy and ground/missions operations\ to be exercised as a wh ole and permits the verification of all interfaces between components all autonomy commands via autonomy macros to flight hardware and flight software and  all hardware i.e PDU commands to flight hardware T he high fidelity hardware simulator section 3.1 is u sed whenever possible to dry-run the scenario tests to identify and correct procedural errors and for regression te sting of tier two tests  


   12 The scenario tests are designed through a process o f grouping the FM requirements into sequences. The pr ocess is performed using a requirements-to-test allocatio n matrix in which each requirement is assigned to a test or group of tests The selection of which tests form the incomp ressible test suite is performed through consultation and it eration of the core test list with the systems engineering tea m Following the allocation of all requirements to the  various tests, individual test plans are developed that inc lude a set of starting conditions and high-level outline of test and verification activities. Each test plan includes th e following information test name document number tier desig nation test objective, requirements fully or partially ver ified by the test, minimum spacecraft component set required to run the test, initial conditions for the test, required sup port, planning notes, and the high-level test outline   Figure 12 shows the activity flow for each scenario  test during the system-level test phase  Following the development of the system-level verification and te st plan individual test procedures are generated for each t est. A test procedure is a configuration managed document that describes the detailed information necessary to run  the test on the spacecraft and the list of steps taken to ex ecute the test. The test procedure is also the as-run documen t used by the test conductor or FM lead engineer to document the major milestones of the test When possible the te st procedure will be dry run on the high-fidelity simu lators to identify and correct procedural errors. The test pr ocedure is then executed on the observatory during I&T \(eventu ally the procedure is run on both spacecraft Any deviation s from the test procedure are documented within the test p rocedure as red lines \(i.e., permanent changes to the test p rocedure\ or black lines i.e changes for the current procedur e If the test fails due to test procedure errors the test p rocedure is corrected and the process is repeated However if the test fails due to an implementation error in flight hard ware flight software or autonomy a formal discrepancy is documented in the Anomaly/Problem Failure Reporting  APFR system any changes or corrections to autono my flight software, or hardware are implemented and th e test is re-run until the anomaly is resolved and the test r uns to successful completion After the completion of each  test a review of the test procedure as-run information a nd spacecraft data is performed by a member of the FM team Following the review of the test data, the FM lead engineer signs the test procedure confirming that the test w as run and the review accurately described the success or fail ure of the test  n	\r\n\n  n        n   n\r     n r\r\n\r r\n\r r\r\n\r    0/-1  23  n  4      Figure 12:  Fault Protection System-Level Test Proc ess Flow 4  CONCLUSION The RBSP spacecraft are designed to operate for mul tiple years in the extreme environment of the Earth’s rad iation belts.  To facilitate this mission, a robust fault management system is integrated into the system architecture f rom the earliest stages of the design.  This fault manageme nt system was rigorously tested during I&T and the results o f this testing show that the RBSP spacecraft are protected against on-orbit fault conditions and therefore have a hig h probability of meeting the mission objectives  The  RBSP fault management design, implementation and test ap proach demonstrate that robust fault-tolerant designs are  achievable for complex systems operating in harsh environments even for systems with only limited or  selective redundancy 5  REFERENCES  1  J   S t r a t t o n  a n d  N   F o x   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P robes RBSP\ Mission Overview Proc. of the 2012 IEEE Aerospace Conf. Vol. 027 No. xxx Big Sky, Montana USA, March 2012. The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723   2  K   K i r b y  e t  a l   R a d i a t i o n  B e l t  S t o r m  P r o b e s   R B SP Spacecraft and impact of environment on observatory  design Proc. of the 2012  IEEE Aerospace Conf.,Vol  027 No. 1759 Big Sky, Montana, USA, March 2012 The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723  


WeD6 \226 Queuing Theory Visitor Center   Chair Starobinski, David Boston University On the Channel-Sensitive Delay Behavior of LIFO-Backpressure 715  Si, Wei Boston University  Starobinski, David Boston University  Transient Flow Level Models for In terference-Coupled Cellular Networks 723  326hmann, David Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fehske, Albrecht Technische Universit\344t Dresden  Fettweis, Gerhard Technische Universit\344t Dresden  When do Redundant Requests Reduce Latency 731  Shah, Nihar B University of California, Berkeley  Lee, Kangwook University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  Scheduling in Cooperative Cognitive Radio Networks 739  Das, Dibakar Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Abouzeid, Alhussein A Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  Codreanu, Marian University of Oulu  Batch Job Scheduling for Reducing Water Footprints in Data Center 747  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Bits through Bufferless Queues 755  Tavan, Mehrnaz Rutgers University  Yates, Roy D Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  ThA1 \226 Information-Theoretic Security Library   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois Networked Cyber-Physical Systems: Interdep endence, Resilience and Information Exchange 763  Zhu, Quanyan Princeton University  Bushnell, Linda University of Washington  On the Secure Interference Channel 770  Somekh-Baruch, Anelia Bar-Ilan University  How Many Antennas does a Cooperative Jammer Need for Achieving the Degrees of Freedom of Multiple Antenna Gaussian Channels in the Presence of an Eavesdropper 774  Nafea, Mohamed Pennsylvania State University  Yener, Aylin Pennsylvania State University  Distributed Consensus with Byzantine Adversaries n/a  Liu, Xiangyang University of Maryland  Gao, Peixin University of Maryland  Baras, John University of Maryland  


Why Cyber-Insurance Contracts Fail to Reflect Cyber-Risks 781  Schwartz, Galina University of California, Berkeley  Shetty, Nikhil Insieme Networks  Walrand, Jean University of California, Berkeley  Performance-Aware IP Address Randomi zation in Moving Target Defense n/a  Clark, Andrew University of Washington  Sun, Kun George Mason University  Poovendran, Radha University of Washington  ThA2 \226 Distributed Stor age: Theory and Practice Solarium   Chair Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois Explicit Maximally Recoverable Codes with Locality n/a  Gopalan, Parikshit Microsoft Research  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  Jenkins, Bob Microsoft Research  Yekhanin, Sergey Microsoft Research  On the Interior Points of the Storage-Repa ir Bandwidth Tradeoff of Regenerating Codes 788  Sasidharan, Birenjith Indian Institute of Science  Kumar, P. Vijay Indian Institute of Science  A Family of Locally Recoverable Codes n/a  Tamo, Itzhak University of Maryland  Barg, Alexander University of Maryland  Locality and Availability in Distributed Storage n/a  Rawat, Ankit Singh University of Texas, Austin  Papailiopoulos, Dimitris University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alex University of Texas, Austin  Vishwanath, Sriram University of Texas, Austin  Data Secrecy in Distributed Storage Systems under Exact Repair n/a  El Rouayheb, Salim Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago  Goparaju, Sreechakra Princeton University  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Calderbank, A. Robert Duke University  LRC Erasure Coding in Windows Storage: From Cloud to Desktop n/a  Huang, Cheng Microsoft Research  ThA3 \226 Information Theory II Butternut   Chair  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University Matroid Bounds on the Region of Entropic Vectors 796  Li, Congduan Drexel University  Walsh, John MacLaren Drexel University  Weber, Steven Drexel University  


Groups and Information Inequalities in 5 Variables 804  Markin, Nadya Nanyang Technological University  Thomas, Eldho Nanyang Technological University  Oggier, Fr\351d\351rique Nanyang Technological University  Superadditivity of Quantum Channel Coding Rate with Finite Blocklength Quantum Measurements 810  Chung, Hye Won Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Zheng, Lizhong Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Information Rates in the Optica l Nonlinear Phase Noise Channel 818  Dar, Ronen Tel Aviv University  Shtaif, Mark Tel Aviv University  Feder, Meir Tel Aviv University  An Outer Bound of the Capacity Re gion of Biometric Systems under Keys, Secrets, and Privacy Requirements 824  Lai, Po-Hsiang Washington University in Saint Louis  O'Sullivan, Joseph A Washington University in Saint Louis  Generalized Cut-Set Bounds for Broadcast Networks 832  Salimi, Amir Texas A&M University  Liu, Tie Texas A&M University  Cui, Shuguang Texas A&M University  ThA4 \226 Sensor Networks Pine   Chair Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis How to Sleep, Control and Transfer Data in an Energy Constrained Wireless Sensor Network 839  Venkateswaran, Vijay Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Kennedy, Irwin O Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Network Observability and Localization of the So urce of Diffusion based on a Subset of Nodes 847  Zejnilovic, Sabina Carnegie Mellon University  Gomes, Jo\343o Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  The Central Detection Officer Problem: SALS A Detector and Performance Guarantees 853  Li, Xiao University of California, Davis  Poor, H. Vincent Princeton University  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  A New Graph Model with Random Edge Values: Connectivity and Diameter 861  La, Richard J University of Maryland, College Park  Kabkab, Maya University of Maryland, College Park  


ThA5 \226 Source Coding Lower Level   Chair Cohen, Asaf Ben-Gurion University Correlated Sources with Actions 869  Sabag, Oron Ben Gurion University  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University  Cohen, Asaf Ben Gurion University  Non-Asymptotic Bounds on Fixed Leng th Source Coding for Markov Chains 875  Hayashi, Masahito Nagoya University  Watanabe, Shun University of Tokushima  Efficient Similarity Queri es via Lossy Compression 883  Ochoa, Idoia Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Results on the Optimal Memory-Assisted Univer sal Compression Performance for Mixture Sources 890  Beirami, Ahmad Georgia Institute of Technology  Sardari, Mohsen Georgia Institute of Technology  Fekri, Faramarz Georgia Institute of Technology  Interactive Function Computation with Reconstruction Constraints 896  Ebrahim Rezagah, Farideh Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Erkip, Elza Polytechnic Institute of New York University  Distortion Rate Function of Sub-Nyquist Sa mpled Gaussian Sources Corrupted by Noise 901  Kipnis, Alon Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea J Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  Eldar, Yonina C Technion - Israel Institute of Technology  ThB1 \226 Dynamic Games Library   Chair Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan Joint Control of Transmission Power and Channel Switching against Adaptive Jamming 909  Wang, Qingsi University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  Characterization and Computation of Loca l Nash Equilibria in Continuous Games 917  Ratliff, Lillian J University of California, Berkeley  Burden, Samuel A University of California, Berkeley  Sastry, S. Shankar University of California, Berkeley  Multiagent Inverse Reinforcement Learni ng for Zero-Sum Stochastic Games n/a  Beling, Peter University of Virginia  Cogill, Randy University of Virginia  Lin, Xiaomin University of Virginia  A Dynamic VCG Mechanism for Random Allocation Spaces 925  Balandat, Maximilian University of California, Berkeley  Tomlin, Claire J University of California, Berkeley  


Nonstationary Resource Sharing with Imperfect Binary Feedback An Optimal Design Framework for Cost Minimization 932  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  ThB2 \226 Topics in Information Theory III Solarium   Chair Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  De Novo RNA Shotgun Sequencing: Fundamental Limits n/a  Kannan, Sreeram University of Illinois  Pachter, Lior University of California, Berkeley  Tse, David University of California, Berkeley  Queue Length as an Implicit Communication Channel 940  Park, Se Yong University of California, Berkeley  Sahai, Anant University of California, Berkeley  Polytope Codes for Large-Alphabet Channels 948  Fan, Xiaoqing Cornell University  Wagner, Aaron B Cornell University  Ahmed, Ebad LSI Corporation  Data-Driven Management of Infrastructure Networks n/a  Rajagopal, Ram Stanford University A Derivation of the Asymptotic Random-Coding Prefactor 956  Scarlett, Jonathan University of Cambridge  Martinez, Alfonso Universitat Pompeu Fabra  Guill\351n i F\340bregas, Albert ICREA and Universitat Pompeu Fabra  ThB3 \226 Discrete Event Systems Butternut   Chair  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University On Exploiting Algebraic Structure in Control of Finite State Machines 962  Tarraf, Danielle C Johns Hopkins University  A Bridge between Decentralized and Coordination Control 966  Komenda, Jan Czech Academy of Sciences  Masopust, Tom\341\232 Czech Academy of Sciences  A Model Checking Framework for Linear Time Invariant Switching Systems using Structural Systems Analysis 973  Ramos, Guilherme Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Pequito, S\351rgio Carnegie Mellon University and Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Aguiar, A. Pedro University of Porto  Ramos, Jaime Instituto Superior T\351cnico  Kar, Soummya Carnegie Mellon University  


Robust Supervisory Control of Ne tworked Discrete Event Systems 981  Wang, Fei Tongji University  Shu, Shaolong Tongji University  Lin, Feng Wayne State University  Probability Bounds for False Alarm Anal ysis of Fault Detection Systems 989  Hu, Bin University of Minnesota  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  ThB4 \226 Network Inference Pine   Chair Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Organizer\(s Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin Robust Structure Estimation of M aximum Causal Entropy Processes 996  Ziebart, Brian D University of Illinois, Chicago  The Squared-Error of Generalized LASSO: A Precise Analysis 1002  Oymak, Samet California Institute of Technology  Thrampoulidis, Christos California Institute of Technology  Hassibi, Babak California Institute of Technology  Localized Minimax Complexity of Stochastic Convex Optimization n/a  Zhu, Yuancheng University of Chicago  Lafferty, John University of Chicago  Non-Convex Inference via Alternatin g Minimization: Provable Guarantees n/a  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Loop Calculus and Bootstrap-Belief Propagatio n for Perfect Matchings on Arbitrary Graphs n/a  Chertkov, Michael Los Alamos National Laboratory  Gelfand, Andrew University of California, Irvine  Shin, Jinwoo Massachusetts Institute of Technology  ThB5 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems I Lower Level   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  A Rank Minimization Algorithm to Enhance Semidefinite Rel axations of Optimal Power Flow 1010  Louca, Raphael Cornell University  Seiler, Peter University of Minnesota  Bitar, Eilyan Cornell University  Power System Structure and Confidenti ality Preserving Transformation of Optimal Power Flow Model 102 1  Borden, Alexander R University of Wisconsin, Madison  Molzahn, Daniel K University of Michigan  Lesieutre, Bernard C University of Wisconsin, Madison  Ramanathan, Parmeswaran University of Wisconsin, Madison  


Incentive Design for Direct Load Control Programs 1029  Alizadeh, Mahnoosh University of California, Davis  Xiao, Yuanzhang University of California, Los Angeles  Scaglione, Anna University of California, Davis  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 1 n/a  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Pandzic, Hrvoje University of Washington  Qiu, Ting University of Washington  Wang, Yishen University of Washington  Energy Positioning: Control and Economics \226 Part 2 n/a  Hiskens, Ian University of Michigan  Kirschen, Daniel University of Washington  Xue, Mengran University of Michigan  Almassalkhi, Mads Root3 Technologies Ltd  Felder, Jennifer University of Michigan  The Redistribution of Power Flow in Cascading Failures 1037  Lai, Chengdi California Institute of Technology  Low, Steven H California Institute of Technology  ThB6 \226 Multiuser Detecti on and Estimation Theory Visitor Center   Chair Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University Phase and Power Estimation for Per-Hop MultiUser Detection in Frequency-Hopping Systems 1045  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Royster, Thomas C MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Non-Coherent Multi-User Detection of DPSK Signals after Differential Demodulation 1052  Qiu, David MIT Lincoln Laboratory  Block, Frederick J MIT Lincoln Laboratory  The Incidence and Cross Methods for Efficient Radar Detection 1059  Fish, Alexander University of Sydney  Gurevich, Shamgar University of Wisconsin, Madison  Capacity Analysis of Uplink Multi-User SC-FDMA System with Frequency-Dependent I/Q Imbalance 1067  Ishaque, Aamir RWTH Aachen University  Sakulkar, Pranav RWTH Aachen University  Ascheid, Gerd RWTH Aachen University  Reliable Uncoded Communication in th e Underdetermined SIMO MAC with Low-Complexity Decoding 1 075  Chowdhury, Mainak Stanford University  Goldsmith, Andrea Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  


ThC1 \226 Networks, Ga mes and Algorithms III Library   Chair  Williams, Steven R University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Competitive Equilibrium in Electricity Markets wi th Heterogeneous users and Ramping Constraints n/a  Malekian, Azarakhsh Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Ozdaglar, Asu Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Wei, Ermin Massachusetts Institute of Technology  A Lyapunov Optimization Approach to Repeated Stochastic Games 1082  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  Road Traffic Networks: Optimal Transport and Incentives 1090  Mandayam, Chinmoy V Stanford University  Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  Online Stochastic Ad Allocation: Simu ltanenous and Bicriteria Approximations n/a  Mirrokni, Vahab Google Research  A Processor-Sharing Heuristic fo r Multipath Congestion Control n/a  Walton, Neil Stuart University of Amsterdam  Anselmi, Jonatha Basque Center for Applied Mathematics  D'Auria, Bernardo Universidad Carlos III de Madrid  ThC2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing I Solarium   Chair Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Asymptotic Optimality Results for Controlled Sequential Estimation 1098  Atia, George University of Central Florida  Aeron, Shuchin Tufts University  Even Symmetric Parallel Linear Determinis tic Interference Channels are Inseparable 1106  Mukherjee, Pritam University of Maryland  Tandon, Ravi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Ulukus, Sennur University of Maryland  Estimation Over the Collision Channel: Structural Results 1114  Vasconcelos, Marcos M University of Maryland  Martins, Nuno C University of Maryland  Physical Watermarking and Authenti cation in Cyber-Physical Systems n/a  Weerakkody, Sean Carnegie Mellon University  Mo, Yilin California Institute of Technology  Sinopoli, Bruno Carnegie Mellon University  


Distributed Linear Estimation of Dynamic Random Fields 1120  Das, Subhro Carnegie Mellon University  Moura, Jos\351 M.F Carnegie Mellon University  ThC3 \226 Active Learning, Search and Visual Recognition Butternut   Chair Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Co-Chair Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Lazebnik, Svetlana University of Illinois Raginsky, Maxim University of Illinois  Working Title: Learning to Recognize Everything n/a  Berg, Alexander C University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill  Visual Attributes for Enhanced Human-Machine Communication 1126  Parikh, Devi Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Active Learning of Linear Separators n/a  Balcan, Maria Florina Georgia Institute of Technology  Discriminative Value of Information for Structured Prediction n/a  Taskar, Ben University of Washington  Extrinsic Jensen\226Shannon Divergence and Noisy Bayesian Active Learnin\g 1128  Naghshvar, Mohammad University of California, San Diego  Javidi, Tara University of California, San Diego  Chaudhuri, Kamalika University of California, San Diego  Universal Random Number Generators for Finite Memory Sources n/a  Seroussi, Gadiel Universidad de la Rep\372blica, Uruguay  Weinberger, Marcelo J Center for Science of Information  ThC4 \226 Information Theory III Pine   Chair Avestimehr, Salman Cornell University Approximate Capacity of the Two-User MI SO Broadcast Channel with Delayed CSIT 1136  Vahid, Alireza Cornell University  Maddah-ali, Mohammad Ali Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  K-User Symmetric MIMO Distributed Full-D uplex Network via Wireless Side-Channels 1144  Bai, Jingwen Rice University  Dick, Chris Xilinx, Inc  Sabharwal, Ashutosh Rice University  Degrees of Freedom Region for MIMO Interferen ce Channel with Limite d Receiver Cooperation 1152  Ashraphijuo, Mehdi Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  


Degrees of Freedom of the MIMO Rank-Def icient Interference Channel with Feedback 1159  Chae, Sung Ho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Suh, Changho Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  Chung, Sae-Young Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology  On the Optimality of Trea ting Interference as Noise 1166  Geng, Chunhua University of California, Irvine  Naderializadeh, Navid Cornell University  Avestimehr, A. Salman Cornell University  Jafar, Syed A University of California, Irvine  Asymmetric Compute-and-Forward 1174  Ntranos, Vasilis University of Southern California  Cadambe, Viveck R Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Nazer, Bobak Boston University  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  ThC5 \226 Pricing and Contractive Mechanisms for Wireless Data Services Lower Level   Chair Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois Wang, Qiong University of Illinois  Smart Data Pricing for the Internet: Agenda & Research Directions 1182  Sen, Soumya University of Minnesota  Market Structures for Wirele ss Service with Shared Spectrum 1188  Berry, Randall Northwestern University  Honig, Michael Northwestern University  Subramanian, Vijay Northwestern University  Nguyen, Thanh Northwestern University  Vohra, Rakesh Northwestern University  Fostering Wireless Spectrum Sharing via Subsidization 1192  Yuksel, Murat University of Nevada, Reno  Quint, Thomas University of Nevada, Reno  Guvenc, Ismail Florida International University  Saad, Walid University of Miami  Kapucu, Naim University of Central Florida  Stable Real-Time Pricing and Sc heduling for Serving Opportunistic users with Deferrable Loads 1200  Dalkilic, Ozgur Ohio State University  Eryilmaz, Atilla Ohio State University  Lin, Xiaojun Purdue University  Implementing Sponsored Conten t in Wireless Data Networks 1208  Andrews, Matthew Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  


ThC6 \226 Deletion Codes: Bounds and Applications Visitor Center   Chair Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dolecek, Lara University of Califo rnia, Los Angeles  Kiyavash, Negar University of Illinois A Practical Framework for Efficient File Synchronization 1213  Bitouz\351, Nicolas University of California, Los Angeles  Sala, Frederic University of California, Los Angeles  Tabatabaei Yazdi, S.M. Sadegh University of California, Los Angeles  Dolecek, Lara University of California, Los Angeles  An Improvement of the Deletion Channel Capacity Upper Bound 1221  Rahmati, Mojtaba Arizona State University  Duman, Tolga M Arizona State University and Bilkent University  On the Number of Subsequences Obtained via the Deletion Channel n/a  Yuvalal, Liron The Open University of Israel  Langberg, Michael State University of New York, Buffalo Efficient Interactive Algorithms for F ile Synchronization under General Edits 1226  Venkataramanan, Ramji University of Cambridge  Narasimha Swamy, Vasuki University of California, Berkeley  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  ThD1 \226 Sparse Data Analysis Library   Chair Studer, Christoph Rice University Recovering Sparse Low-Rank Bloc ks in Tandem Mass Spectrometry n/a  Studer, Christoph Rice University  Pope, Graeme ETH Zurich  Navarro, Pedro Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz  Baraniuk, Richard Rice University  GROTESQUE: Noisy Group Testing \(Quick and Efficient 1234  Cai, Sheng The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Jahangoshahi, Mohammad Sharif University of Technology  Bakshi, Mayank Institute of Network Coding  Jaggi, Sidharth The Chinese University of Hong Kong  Compressed Sensing of Streaming Data 1242  Freris, Nikolaos M 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326\347al, Orhan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  A Fast Hadamard Transform for Signals with Sub-Linear Sparsity 1250  Scheibler, Robin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Haghighatshoar, Saeid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Vetterli, Martin 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  


Sample-Optimal Average-Case Sparse Fo urier Transform in Two Dimensions 1258  Ghazi, Badih Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Hassanieh, Haitham Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Indyk, Piotr Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Katabi, Dina Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Price, Eric Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Shi, Lixin Massachusetts Institute of Technology Guarantees of Total Variation Mi nimization for Signal Recovery 1266  Cai, Jian-Feng University of Iowa  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  ThD2 \226 Distributed and Controlled Sensing II Solarium   Chair Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois  Nedich, Angelia University of Illinois Veeravalli, Venugopal University of Illinois  Adaptive Stochastic Convex Optimization Over Networks 1272  Towfic, Zaid J University of California, Los Angeles  Sayed, Ali H University of California, Los Angeles  A Routing Problem in a Simple Queueing Syst em with Non-Classical Information Structure 1278  Ouyang, Yi University of Michigan  Teneketzis, Demosthenis University of Michigan  On the Necessary Conditions for Distributed Observability n/a  Doostmohammadian, Mohammadreza Tufts University  Khan, Usman A Tufts University  Sequential Supervised Learning n/a  Wang, Joseph Boston University  Trapeznikov, Kirill Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Fusion Center Feedback for Quasi-Decentr alized Estimation in Sensor Networks 1285  Michelusi, Nicol\362 University of Southern California  Mitra, Urbashi University of Southern California  ThD3 \226 Information Theory IV Butternut   Chair Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Inst. of Tech, Madras The Gaussian Two-Way Diamond Channel 1292  V, Prathyusha Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Bhashyam, Srikrishna Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Thangaraj, Andrew Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  Capacity to within a Constant Gap fo r a Class of Interference Relay Channels 1300  Bassi, Germ\341n Sup\351lec  Piantanida, Pablo Sup\351lec  Yang, Sheng Sup\351lec  


The State-Dependent Broadcast Channel with Cooperation 1307  Dikstein, Lior Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Permuter, Haim H Ben Gurion University of the Negev  Steinberg, Yossef Technion - Israel Institute of Technology An Analysis of the Joint Compute-and-Forward Decoder for the Binary-Input Two-Way Relay Channel 1314  Hern, Brett Texas A&M University  Narayanan, Krishna Texas A&M University  The Generalized Degrees of Freedom of the Int erference Relay Channel with Strong Interference 1321  Gherekhloo, Soheyl Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Chaaban, Anas Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Sezgin, Aydin Ruhr Universit\344t Bochum  Optimal Jamming Over Additive No ise: Vector Source-Channel Case 1329  Akyol, Emrah University of California, Santa Barbara  Rose, Kenneth University of California, Santa Barbara  ThD4 \226 Control and Optimization Problems in Electrical Energy Systems II Pine   Chair Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Dominguez-Garcia, Alejandro University of Illinois  Distributed Stopping in Average Consensus via Event-Triggered Strategies 1336  Manitara, Nicolaos University of Cyprus  Hadjicostis, Christoforos N University of Cyprus  Stochastic Models and Control fo r Electrical Power Line Temperature 1344  Bienstock, Daniel Columbia University  Blanchet, Jose Columbia University  Li, Juan Columbia University  Applicability of Topology Control Algorit hms \(TCA\e Power System 1349  Goldis, Evgeniy A Boston University  Li, Xiaoguang Boston University  Caramanis, Michael C Boston University  Keshavamurthy, Bhavana PJM  Patel, Mahendra PJM  Rudkevich, Aleksandr M Newton Energy Group Ruiz, Pablo A  Charles River Associates Retail Pricing for Stochastic Demand with Unknown Parameters An Online Machine Learning Approach 1353  Jia, Liyan Cornell University  Zhao, Qing University of California, Davis  Tong, Lang Cornell University  Virtual Oscillator Control for Voltage Source Inverters 1359  Dhople, Sairaj V University of Minnesota  Johnson, Brian B National Renewable Energy Laboratory  Hamadeh, Abdullah O Rutgers University  


ThD5 \226 Networks, Gam es and Algorithms IV Lower Level   Chair Lu, Yi University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Hajek, Bruce University of Illinois  Srikant, R University of Illinois Contagion and Observability in Security Domains 1364  Bachrach, Yoram Microsoft Research Cambridge Draief, Moez Imperial College  Goyal, Sanjeev University of Cambridge  Targeted Matrix Completion n a  Ruchansky, Natali Boston University  Crovella, Mark Boston University  Terzi, Evimaria Boston University  Random Matrix Theory Approach to Spectral Clustering n/a  Lelarge, Marc INRIA and \311cole Normale Sup\351rieure Optimal Distributed Scheduling in Wirele ss Networks under SINR Interference Model 1372  Chaporkar, P Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai  Proutiere, A KTH Royal Institute of Technology  Load Balancing with Deadlines and Graph Constraints n/a  Moharir, Sharayu Arun University of Texas, Austin  Sanghavi, Sujay University of Texas, Austin  Shakkottai, Sanjay University of Texas, Austin  Curbing Delays in Datacenters Need Time to Save Time n/a  Alizadeh Attar, Mohammadreza Insieme Networks  Katti, Sachin Stanford University Prabhakar, Balaji Stanford University  ThD6 \226 Topics in Cryptography Vistior Center   Chair Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duursma, Iwan University of Illinois  Prabhakaran, Manoj University of Illinois How to Encrypt Software  n/a  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles  On the Cost of Information-Theoretic Cryptography n/a  Ishai, Yuval Technion - Israel Institute of Technology From Unprovability to Environmentally Friendly Protocols n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Lin, Huijia Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Boston University  Pass, Rafael Cornell University  Cryptography, Causality, and Coding n/a  Smith, Adam Pennsylvania State University  


Obfuscation for Evasive Functions n/a  Canetti, Ran Boston University and Tel Aviv University  Bitansky, Nir Tel Aviv University  Barak, Boaz Microsoft Research  Kalai, Yael Microsoft Research  Paneth, Boaz Microsoft Research  Sahai, Amit University of California, Los Angeles FrPP - Plenary Talk:  C odes for the Storage Cloud Library   Chair Ba ar, Tamer University of Illinois Codes for the Storage Cloud n a  Ramchandran, Kannan University of California, Berkeley  FrA1 \226 Wireless Communications II   Chair Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University Small Cell Networks: Speed based Power Allocation 1380  Kavitha, Veeraruna Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Capdevielle, Veronique Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs  Gupta, Manu K Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay  Distributed Power Control in Femto Ce lls using Bayesian Density Tracking 1388  Hanif, Ahmed Farhan Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Tembine, Hamidou Sup\351lec  Assaad, Mohamad Sup\351lec  Zeghlache, Djamal Institut Mines-T\351l\351com-T\351l\351com SudParis  Renewable Energy Scheduling for Fading Ch annels with Maximum Power Constraint 1394  Wang, Zhe Columbia University  Aggarwal, Vaneet AT&T Labs-Research  Wang, Xiaodong Columbia University  Analysis and Design of Spectrum Sh aring in Cognitive Femtocell Networks 1401  Zhou, Xiangwei Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Al-Hraishawi, Hayder Southern Illinois University, Carbondale  Jia, Yupeng National Instruments  Channel-Adaptive Spectrum Detection and Sensin g Strategy for Cognitive Radio Ad Hoc Networks 1408  Lu, Yuan North Carolina State University  Duel-Hallen, Alexandra North Carolina State University  Quantized Auction Schemes for Secondary Spectrum Markets 1415  Palguna, Deepan Purdue University  Love,  David J Purdue University  Pollak, Ilya Purdue University  Performance Analysis of Coexisting Secondary users in Heterogeneous Cognitive Radio Network 1422  Li, Xiaohua State University of New York, Binghamton  Xiong, Chengyu State University of New York, Binghamton  


FrA2 \226 Statistical Signal Processing Solarium   Chair  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University Nearly Optimal Sample Size in Hypothesis Testing for High-Dim ensional Regression 1427  Javanmard, Adel Stanford University  Montanari, Andrea Stanford University  Distributed Online Big Data Classifi cation using Context Information 1435  Tekin, Cem University of California, Los Angeles  van der Schaar, Mihaela University of California, Los Angeles  Compressed Hypothesis Testing: To Mix or Not to Mix 1443  Xu, Weiyu University of Iowa  Lai, Lifeng Worcester Polytechnic Institute  Sparse Signal Recovery under Poisson Statistics 1450  Motamedvaziri, Delaram Boston University  Rohban, Mohammad H Boston University  Saligrama, Venkatesh Boston University  Efficient Probabilistic Group Testing based on Traitor Tracing 1458  Laarhoven, Thijs Eindhoven University of Technology  Computational and Statistical Tradeoffs via Convex Relaxation n/a  Chandrasekaran, Venkat California Institute of Technology  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Time-Variant Regularization in Affine Projection Algorithms 1466  Ba, Amadou IBM Research  McKenna, Sean IBM Research  Cloud K-SVD: Computing Data-Adaptive Representations in the Cloud 1474  Raja, Haroon Rutgers University  Bajwa, Waheed U Rutgers University  FrA3 \226 Information Aggregation Over Social Networks Butternut   Chair Hassanzadeh, Farzad University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Milenkovic, Olgica University of Illinois  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology The Maximum Likelihood Approach to Voting on Social Networks 1482  Conitzer, Vincent Duke University  Building Consensus via Iterative Voting n/a  Farnoud \(Hassanzadeh California Institute of Technology  Yaakobi, Eitan California Institute of Technology  Touri, Behrouz Georgia Institute of Technology Bruck, Jehoshua California Institute of Technology  CP-Nets with Indifference  1488  Allen, Thomas E University of Kentucky  


Computing Parametric Rankin g Models via Rank-Breaking n/a  Azari Soufiani, Hossein Harvard University  Parkes, David Harvard University  Xia, Lirong Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  On the Dynamics of Influence Networks via Reflected Appraisal n/a  Bullo, Francesco University of California, Santa Barbara Social Group Utility Maximization Game with Applications in Mobile Social Networks 1496  Gong, Xiaowen Arizona State University  Chen, Xu Arizona State University  Zhang, Junshan Arizona State University  Credibility Optimization and Power Co ntrol for Secure Mobile Crowdsourcing 1501  Ahmed, Kishwar Florida International University  Ren, Shaolei Florida International University  Turnewitsch, Vance Marietta College  Vasilakos, Athanasios V National Technical University of Athens  Group Learning and Opinion Diffusion in a Broadcast Network 1509  Liu, Yang University of Michigan  Liu, Mingyan University of Michigan  FrA4 \226 Network Coding Pine   Chair Dimakis, Alex University of Southern California Secure Network Coding with Erasures and Feedback 1517  Czap, L\341szl\363 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Prabhakaran, Vinod M Tata Institute of Fundamental Research  Diggavi, Suhas University of California, Los Angeles  Index Coding Problem with Side Information Repositories 1525  Shanmugam, Karthikeyan University of Texas, Austin  Dimakis, Alexandros G University of Texas, Austin  Caire, Giuseppe University of Southern California  Complexity and Rate-Distortion Tradeoff via Successive Refinement 1531  No, Albert Stanford University  Ingber, Amir Stanford University  Weissman, Tsachy Stanford University  On a Capacity Equivalence Between Mult iple Multicast and Multiple Unicast 1537  Wong, M.F California Institute of Technology  Langberg, M State University of New York, Buffalo Effros, M California Institute of Technology  On the Capacity of Sum-Networks 1545  Rai, Brijesh Kumar Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  Das, Niladri Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati  


Duality Codes and the Integral ity Gap Bound for Index Coding 1553  Yu, Hao University of Southern California  Neely, Michael J University of Southern California  On the Structure of Approximately Optimal Schedules for Half-Duplex Diamond Networks 1561  Brahma, Siddhartha 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Fragouli, Christina 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  326zg\374r, Ayfer Stanford University  FrA5 \226 Topology and Control Lower Level   Chair Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Co-Chair Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois   Organizer\(s Baryshnikov, Yuliy University of Illinois  Belabbas, Mohamed-Ali University of Illinois Double Bracket Flows, Toda Flows and Rigid Body Toda 1567  Bloch, Anthony M University of Michigan  Gay-Balmaz, Fran\347ois 311cole Normale Sup\351rieure  Ratiu, Tudor S 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Topological Obstructions to Dist ributed Feedback Stabilization 1573  Mansouri, Abdol-Reza Queen's University  Contact Geometry of Optimal Control Problems n/a  Ohsawa, Tomoki University of Michigan, Dearborn  Equivariant Morse Theory for Formation Control 1576  Helmke, Uwe University of W\374rzburg  Anderson, Brian D.O Australian National University  Towards Discrete Geometric Boundary Co ntrol of Lagrangian Field Theories n/a  Leok, Melvin University of California, San Diego  Structure and Geometry of Minimum-Tim e Trajectories for Planar Rigid Bodies 1584  Futuna, Andrei A Dartmouth College  Wang, Weifu Dartmouth College  Lyu, Yu-Han Dartmouth College  Balkcom, Devin Dartmouth College  Real and Apparent Synchronization n/a  Brockett, Roger Harvard University  Rauch and Bonnet-Myers Type Comparison Theorems in Sub-Riemannian Geometry n/a  Zelenko, Igor Texas A&M University  


FrA6 \226 Privacy and Big Data Visitor Center   Chair Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duchi, John University of California, Berkeley  Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates 1592  Duchi, John C University of California, Berkeley  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Wainwright, Martin J University of California, Berkeley  Differential Privacy, Equilibrium, and Efficient Allocation of Resources 1593  Roth, Aaron University of Pennsylvania  A Bayesian Method for Matching Tw o Similar Graphs without Seeds 1598  Pedarsani, Pedram 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Figueiredo, Daniel R Federal University of Rio de Janeiro  Grossglauser, Matthias 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Privacy as a Coordination Game 1608  Ghosh, Arpita Cornell University  Ligett, Katrina California Institute of Technology  De-Anonymizing Private Data by Matching Statistics 1616  Unnikrishnan, Jayakrishnan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Movahedi Naini, Farid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Robust Subspace Iteration and Privacy-Preserving Spectral Analysis 1624  Hardt, Moritz IBM Research Almaden  Privacy-Utility Tradeoff und er Statistical Uncertainty 1627  Makhdoumi, Ali Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Fawaz, Nadia Technicolor   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a “key, value” list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of “key, value” pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


