Top-down Mining Frequent Clos ed Patterns in Microarray Data  SHI JianJun, MIAO YuQing, ZHANG WanZhen  School of computer and control Guilin University of Electronic Technology Guilin, China e-mail: tj_shi@mails.guet.edu.cn, miaoyuqing@guet.edu.cn , zwan_zer@l63.com   Abstract  Mining frequent closed patterns play an important role in mining association rules in microarray data. The bottomup search strategy for mining frequent closed patterns cannot make full use of minimum support threshold to prune search space and results in long runtime and much memory overhead TP+close algorithm based on top-down search strategy addressed the problem. However, it determined a frequent 
pattern was closed by scanning the set of frequent closed patterns that have been found.  For dense datasets, the algorithm performance will be seriously affected by the scan time. In this paper, we proposed an improved tree structure, TTP+tree. Based on the tree, a top-down algorithm, TTP+close, was developed for mining frequent closed patterns in microarray data. TTP+close checked the closeness property of itemset by the trace-based method and thus avoided scanning the set of frequent closed patterns. The experiments show that TTP+close outperforms TP+close when dealing with dense data Keywords-data mining; frequent closed patterns; microarray data I  I NTRODUCTION 
 With the development of bioinformatics, microarray technology produced lots of microarray data.  Making use of data mining techniques could discover interesting knowledge from these data. However, different from transactional datasets, microarray data usually contain a huge number of columns \(genes\nd few rows \(samples Therefore, most of the existing algorithms based on column enumeration for mining frequent closed pattern were not suitable for microarray data Pan et al. proposed the CARPENTER [1 ba sed o n r o w  enumeration strategy. The algorithm  proposed to search the rowset space rather than the columnset space. It cannot make 
full use of the minimum support threshold to prune the rowset search space Liu et al. [2 p r opo sed  a n app r oa c h w h i c h a dop t e d t o p down rowsets search strategy. The algorithm used tracebased closeness-checking method and other strategies to decide whether an itemset is closed. But it built many conditional tables or IP_Lists without any frequent closed patterns were output Miao et al. [3, 4 al s o i n t r odu ce d t o pdow n m e t h od an d  applied the suffix-based, divide-and-conquer method for mining frequent closed patterns. TP+close [3 h e ro w  enumeration strategy to prune the search space and employed TP+-tree structure to achieve compression storage. When the algorithm outputs one frequent closed 
pattern, it must scan the set of frequent closed patterns that have be obtained to check whether the frequent closed pattern exists. This affects the performance of TP+close as processing the dense datasets Inspired by the TP+close, in this paper, we proposed an improved structure TTP+tree. Based on the structure, an algorithm TTP+close was presented. TTP+close checked the closeness property of itemset by the trace-based method avoided scanning the set of frequent closed patterns that have been found, and therefore accelerated the search speed The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 states the problem definition and related terms. Section 3 introduces the TP+-tree and suffix class. In Section 4 we 
describe the improved structure TTP+tree and algorithm TTP+close. In Section 5 we present our experimental result In Section 6 we summarize our study II  P ROBLEM D EFINITION  Let 123 m I i i i i   be a set of items, and 12 n D t  t  t   a dataset of transactions, where each transaction has a unique identifier tid and contains a set of items. The set of all tids is denoted as T A set XI  is also called an itemset and a set YT 
 is called a tidset An itemset with K items is called a kitemset  An itemsets I  is contained in a transaction t D  if I t  For convenience we write an itemset {a b c as abc and a tidset {2,3,5}as 235 Let X and Y  X T  and Y I  The concept of closed item is based on the two following functions f and g  f\(X i I t X,i t    g\(Y t T  i Y,i t     Definition 1 
An itemset Y is said to be closed if and only if c\(Y f g\(Y f g\(Y Y  where the composite function c is called the closure operator Definition 2 sup\(Y  g\(Y   is called the absolute support threshold of Y  Y I  and | g\(Y\ | divided by | T | is called relative support threshold The number of transactions which contain Y is called absolute support threshold of pattern Y. The percentage of 
2009 Third International Conference on Genetic and Evolutionary Computing 978-0-7695-3899-0/09 $29.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/WGEC.2009.201 851 


transactions which contain Y is called relative support threshold Definition 3 If itemset Y is closed and  g\(Y    sup\(Y min_ sup  is held, the itemset is called frequent closed pattern The problem of mining frequent closed pattern in microarray data can be described as following: given a microarray dataset D and a user-specified minimum support threshold minsup, all frequent closed patterns which satisfied the minsup are discovered III  TP+TREE STRUCTURE AND SUFFIX CLASS  A  TP+-tree Structure TP+-tree is a prefix tree. For traversing conveniently, all nodes which have the same tide in TP+-tree are linked to linked list, and all nodes with the same tide in TP+-tree  are linked to the tid header table. It can traverse all nodes by header table pointer TP+-tree  mainly consists of  root node marked with nullî , tid prefix subtree as the children of  root node itemset structure pointing to corresponding nodes in tree and tid header table. Every node includes four fields \(tid, level sid_link, item_ link\he tid stores transaction identifier of the node. The item_link links the relative itemsets structure or it is null. The field of level denotes the level of node in the tree, and the level of root node is 0.  The sid _ link links the node which has the same tid as itself. It will be null if there is no same tid node. The tid header table consists of two parts \(tid, head\The last field head links the first node of tid list TABLE I  T HE EXAMPLE DATASET        For example, the dataset as table 1, suppose the minimum support threshold, minsup is 2. Figure 1 shows the TP+-tree structure corresponding to dataset in table 1 .The number in the bracket of node is the level of the node. The number out of the bracket denotes the transaction identifier tid. The itemset beside the node denotes that the itemset is included in every transaction from the node to root node. For example, g \(d\1523 indicates that the four transactions contain itemset d respectively. With the condition that c\(d f g\(d f 1523 d   itemset d is frequent closed pattern B   Suffix Class  Given tid set T in certain order, T is a sequence. Let UT  s\(U k is defined to obtain suffix with k  identifiers  0  k  U |.A tid sequence can be obtained on the path in TP+-tree from root node to every node. In fact the sequence is a subsequence of T.  As is shown in figure 1, an ordered transaction set 524 can be obtained from root node to leaf node 4\(3 Supposing R is sequence transaction sets from TP+-tree root node to all other nodes An equivalent relation  based on suffix class in transaction sets R is that U   VR   UV s\(U,1    s\(V,1  It means that last tid of two tidsets are equal and two sets are equivalence class. Equivalent class R which relating to  can ascertain the divisions of R uniquely. The equivalent class which takes transaction identifier r for suffix is called suffix class r  r as the abbreviated form To the members of suffix class, we use signal Y g\(Y  where Y is itemset, and g\(Y represents transaction set. In figure 1, suffix class    d 1 523  f 1 5 3  bj 53       Figure 1  TP+-tree IV  TTP TREE STRUCTURE AND TTP CLOSE ALGORITHM  A  Trace-based Closeness-checking Method TTD-close [2 s es a n e w clo s en es s ch eck in g t ech n i qu e  which is trace-based closeness-checking method. This strategy judges that whether the intersection sets of all the tids traversed by the itemsets is null, then determines if itemset is closed By analyzing this strategy, it can be applied to TP+close to avoid scanning FCP outputted. Take the suffix class 2  as an example when the elements contained in suffix class 3 is outputted, itemset d points to the parent node 2\(3\ of node 3\(4\. The d has pointed to 3\(4 therefore, 3 is reserved as trace traversed by d. The traversed collection of d is 3.It is not null. That indicates d in suffix class 2  is not closed pattern. When the frequent closed patterns included in 2 are exported, the element  d 152  doesnít scan FCP outputted.  Because 3 is the trace traversed by d, frequent closed pattern d must have been outputted.  We can also conclude that the element in 2 is not frequent closed pattern. In like manner the element e 52  in 2 is not frequent closed pattern, because the trace of e is 4. The tidset intersection for d 152  and e 52  is 52. The new intermediate results de 52  can be obtained. The tidset traversed by the intermediate results can be obtained by the intersection of elements d 152  and e 52  traversed 
852 


tidsets. Because A is null, the new element de 52  is a frequent closed pattern In order to implement the closeness-checking, a field track_link is added to the itemset structure. This field stores intersection of certain itemset contained in the same suffix It is found that the level number in tree node can be transferred from tree node to itemset structure to save space since the level numbers are only used on traversing the structure The improved TP+-tree node contains three fields tid,sid _ link,item _ link The field item _ link  points to itemset structure that includes three fields such as itemset level trace _ link The field itemset stores itemset contained by tid of all tree nodes in the path from root node to this tree node. The field level indicates the level number of tree node pointed by itemset structure. The number subtract one only when the item structure is passed to parent node. The meaning of the field trace _ link is intersection of tidset in field itemset We name the improved TP+-tree as TTP+tree. In figure 2 the TTP+tree is shown    Figure 2  TTP+tree B  TTP+close Algorithm With the analysis, it can be included that applying bitmap technique can implement the function of transpose table in [3  an d  re du ce th e m e m o ry s p ac e  T h er ef o r e  th e  bitmap is introduced to optimize algorithm Building TTP+tree at first, the algorithm is as follows  Procedure Const_TTP+tree \(D, minsup Input: Dataset D and minimum support threshold minsup Output TTP+tree corresponding Datasets D  Method  1  Scan datasets D and build bitmap BT which contains only frequent 1-itemset. Build sequence tid ordered in descending order, and save it to head table 2  Build TTP+tree. Create root node T, and execute the following procedure to every column of bitmap according to tid sequence built by step 1, read the tid in column of bitmap that value is 1 and write the tid sequence to array P. Call insert_tree \(P, T Procedure insert_tree \(P, T 1  To i p in P, if tid in node of T and tid of i p are the same and i p is the last element of P, item_link of tree node points to this itemset of i p and itemset level is recorded as the level of tree node also itemset trace _ link is null and return. If i p is not the last element of P check whether j p exists in T ji p p  2  If there is no node with the same tid as that of j p  create a new node. Initialize the new node and insert it to the corresponding linked list of header table Return step1 Algorithm   TTP+close \(D, minsup Input: Dataset D minimum support threshold minsup Output: Frequent closed patterns FCP and support Method 1  Call Const_TTP+tree \(D, minsup  2  Search the header table by bottom-up strategy and if the number rest tids in header table less than minsup, return 3  Create array N that consist of elements of suffix class n by traversing field sid _ link  4  Insert the itemset structure which corresponding every element in array N to the item _ link field of its parentís node, then level level 1   Simultaneously, updating the field tranc _ link  5  Call SubTTP+close\(N and executing step 2 Procedure SubTTP+close \(N Begin 1  for each element ii ng\(n  in N 2  for each element jj ng\(n  in N j n i n 3  ij i j n n n g\(n g\(n  g\(n    012  ij t t t 012   4  If  g\(n   min_ sup  then 5  If ij g\(n  g\(n   then 6  Delete jj ng\(n  and j tfrom  N and substitute n  for i n t for i t including sub-nodes  7  If ij g\(n  g\(n   then 8  Substitute n  for i n t for i t including sub-nodes  9  If ij g\(n  g\(n   and g\(n  is not discovered  then 10  add n  g\(n   and t  to N  11  End if 12  End for 13  If N  015 then SubTTP+close\(N 14  If i t is null then store ii ng\(n  to FCP 15  End for Because in procedure Const_ttp+tree, the sid_ink sorted in ascending order according to level number of tree node the state ij g\(n  g\(n   will never happen. Accordingly, the state is deleted. In the algorithm TTP close  not only does N contain element in suffix class, but also it contains the 
853 


intersection of tidsets which each element traversed. In steps 9, the program only needs scanning the FCP outputted by this suffix. In step 14 ii ng\(n  is a frequent closed pattern depending on whether i t is null or not. The strategy will avoid scanning FCP or whole. As a result, the algorithm performance is upgraded V   P ERFORMANCE S TUDIES  In this section, we will evaluate TTP+close in terms of the efficiency. All experiments were performed on a PC with a Pentium D 3.0Ghz CPU, 1GB RAM and an 80GB hard disk running Windows XP. The algorithm was coded in standard C++. We introduced two real-life microarray gene expression datasets denoted by AML1_ETO [8  and BCR_ABL h ic h  w e us e to m eas u r e th e ex ec u tio n ti m e  of our proposed algorithm We compared TTP+close with the algorithm TP+close Figure 3 shows the experimental result on dataset AML1ETO. When minsup is 2, TTP+close performance has been improved more than one time over TP+close. With the increase of minsup TTP+close performance has improved much lower. If the minsup is more than 8, the two algorithms perform with almost the same time. It is because that with the increasing of support threshold, the number of frequent closed pattern gets much less and what has to be closeness checked get much less too  Figure 3  Running for AML1_ETO Figure 4 shows the comparison results with TP+close on dataset BCR_ABL. If minsup is 2, BCR_ABL contains more than thirty thousand frequent closed patterns. The algorithm performance has been improved nearly five times  Figure 4  Running for BCR_ABL over TP+close. If minsup is 8, the frequent closed patterns outputted are less than twenty thousand, and the performance falls sharply. TTP+close also uses binary bitmap to save space, which speed up the tree structure establishing. In conclusion, TTP+close outperform TP+close processing very high dimension dense datasets Especially with the low support threshold, the algorithm performance has been improved prominently VI  C ONCLUSIONS  In this paper, we have investigated the problem of efficiency in algorithm TP+close from microarray datasets and proposed an improved algorithm TTP+close based on TTP+tree. The algorithm checked the closeness property of itemset by the trace-based method and thus avoided scanning the set of frequent closed patterns. The experiment shows that TTP+close outperforms TP+close algorithm  R EFERENCES   1  F. Pan, G. Cong, A. Tung, J. Yang, and M.J. Zaki CARPENTER:Finding Closed Patterns in Long Biological Datasetsî, Proc, 9th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD\ 2003  ,2003, pp. 637642 2  H. Liu, X. Wang, J. He, J. Han, D. Xin, and Z. Shao, "Top-down Mining of Frequent Closed Patterns from Very High Dimensional Dataî, IEEE Computer Society, vol 179, no. 7, 2009 ,pp. 899-924 3  Y. Miao, G. Chen, B. Song, and Z. Wang, ìTP+Close: Mining Frequent Closed Patterns in Gene Expression Datasetsî ,Proc.the workshop on Data Mining and Bioinformatics at the 32th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases \(VDMB 2006 Sep. 2006, pp. 120-130 4  Y. Miao, G. Chen, and Y. Xu, ìA New Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Patterns in Gene Expression Datasetsî, Journal of University of Science and Technology of China, vol. 37, no. 9, Sep 2007, pp. 1080-1087 5  M. J. Zaki and C. Hsiao. ìCHARM: an Efficient Algorithm for Closed Itemset Miningî, Proc . 2002 SIAM Intíl Conf. on Data Mining , Apr. 2002   , pp. 457-473 6  J. Wang, J. Han, and J. Pei. ìCLOSET+: Searching for The Best Strategies for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsetsî, In Proc. ACM SIGKDD Intíl Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining KDD\, 2003, pp. 236-245 7  G. Cong, K.-L. Tan, A. K. Tung, and F. Pan,îMining Frequent Closed Patterns in Microarray Dataî, Proc the 4th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining\(ICDM'4\, 2004, pp. 363-366 8  http://www.broadinstitute.org/cgi-bin/cancer/datasets.cgi 9  http://www.stjuderesearch.org/data/ALL1/all_datafiles.html 
854 


Will use mobile ticketing Beijing  and GoTone 10.952 90.164 1.210 Will use mobile ticketing monthly expenditure over 2001 yuan and shanghai 10.054 89.286 1.198 Consequent Antecedent Support % Confidence % Lift Will use mobile ticketing monthly expenditure over 2001 yuan and employee and College or University 10.772 88.333 1.186 Will use mobile ticketing monthly expenditure over 2001 yuan and College or University 15.260 88.235 1.184 TABLE V  D ATA MINING RESULTS OF USER GROUPS   F EATURES OF LOW AWARENESS AND HIGH DEMAND ABOUT MOBILE TICKETING  Consequent Antecedent Support % Confidence % Lift Low awareness and high demand about mobile ticketing Hunan and M-ZONE 10.772 55.000 1.824 Low awareness and high demand about mobile ticketing Hunan and Less than Data Services ARPU 10 yuan 13.465 53.333 1.768 Low awareness and high demand about mobile ticketing Data Services ARPU Less than 10 yuan and M-ZONE 11.670 47.692 1.581 Low awareness and high demand about mobile ticketing Less than ARPU 35 yuan and M-ZONE 10.952 47.541 1.576 Low awareness and high demand about mobile ticketing M-ZONE and College or University and male 14.183 46.835 1.553 TABLE VI  D ATA MINING RESULTS OF USER GROUPS   F EATURES OF DEMAND BUT NOT USE ABOUT MOBILE TICKETING ABOUT MOBILE TICKETING  Consequent Antecedent Support % Confidence % Lift demand but not use monthly expenditure over 2001 yuan and employee and College or University 10.233 82.456 1.228 demand but not use Female and employee and College or University and expenditure donít contain others 14.542 81.481 1.214 demand but not use M-ZONE and aged 23-35 years old and College or University 10.413 81.034 1.207 demand but not use monthly expenditure over 2001 Yuan and aged 2335 years old 12.926 80.556 1.200 demand but not use Female and employee and College or University 14.722 80.488 1.199 F  Features Analysis of Users with Demand on Mobile Ticketing According to the statistics of the questionnaire, we conducted the "with demand but have not used mobile ticketing yet" association rules analysis where to setting min-sup 10%, min-con = 10%, min-lif = 1, the association rules meeting the minimum support \(see Tab VI\ According to Tab VI, the user groupsí Features of demand but not use about mobile ticketing about mobile ticketing: 1\xpenditures over 2001 Yuan and college-educated employees; 2\lege-educated female employees; 3 old and college-educated; 4\ users with monthly expenditure over 2001 Yuan and aged 23-35 y ears old. We can see from the above Features: Age, monthly expenditure and Education are the main identifying factors of this type customer. Up to 82 expenditures from 1001 to 2000 Yuan per-month and collegeeducated employee will use mobile ticketing. This type user will become the Potential users about mobile ticketing IV  CONCLUSION To find the Specific user groups quickly when marketing in the mobile payment, this article investigated and analyzed Mobile Ticketing field of mobile payment service from the user's awareness, demand, usage, evaluation after use willingness of using and so on by using data mining methods of association rules, and also located user groups who most likely to use Mobile Ticketing. It can help the Communication carriers to Market Precisely by quickly locking the market of the target customers at beginning of Mobile Payment Promotion The results showed that: mobile ticketing market is still in its early stage; the userís awar eness is low and potential user groups are large; Already the user used or the user wishes to use mostly concentrated in th e higher spending and higher educated group of young users. Thus, at the initial stage of Mobile Payment Promotion, the Communication carriers should take into account comprehensively the user's group feature, Simplicity of operation, convenience of Opening and safety of use about mobile ticketing and so on. The Communication carriers should develop a user's perception, let them feel the convenience and practicality and seize the potential users of low awareness by widely publicizing Mobile payment market involves bus swipe, mobile ticketing, mobile phone on-site payment, mobile phone online shopping, and mobile phone to pay charge, mobile phone to pay public utility tariffs and so on. This article only explanatorily study on the user groupsí features of mobile ticketing. It will be the need for further research about how to record and track existing user groups and potential user groups and how to analyze and compare the user groupsí features of the different mobile pay areas R EFERENCES    Xu Huimin, ìResearch on China s mobile payment market and development,î Master thesis, Southw estern University of Finance and Economics, 2006   Ostrom A., Iacobucci D, ìConsumer trade-offs and the evaluation of services,î Journal of Marketing, 1999, 59, pp. 17-28 
133 


  Bai Lin, ìA Literature Review on the Relationship among Customer Perceived Value, Customer Satisf action and Behavioral Intention Management Review, 2009, 20\(1\, pp. 87-93   Yang Lijing, ìResearch on the Fact ors Influencing Mobile Payment Behavior of Young Group,î Master thesis, Chongqing University, 2008   Chen Yanni, Huan Ziguo, ìThe psyc hological barrier to consumers and Solutions about mobile payment,î Business Modernization, 2009, 8 pp.129-131   Wang Hao, Fang Ya nan, ìResearch on consumerís perception risk and acceptance about China's wireless payment,î Guangdong Communication Technology, 2009, 2, pp. 26-32   CHEN Hua-ping, TANG Jun, ìResearch of Mobile Payment User and User Behavior,î Management Scienc es in China, 2006, 19\(6\, pp. 48-55   Hu Qiulin, Sun Quan, ìAnlysis of consumerís willingness about mobile payment by integration technology acceptance model,î Statistics and Decision, 2008, 6, pp.119-121   Agrawal R, Imielinski T, Swami A, ìMining association rules between sets of items in large databa ses,î Proceedings of the 1993 ACMSIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, 1993, pp.207-216   Dai Wensheng, ìThe Relationship Ru le of Data Mining,î Statistical Research, 2002, 8, pp.40-42   ZHENG Bin, ìOn the Development of Association Rules,î Journal of Jilin Agricultural Science and Tech nology College, 2008, 17\(3\345   WEI Xin-nan, HAO Zhong-xiao, ìMining of Association Rules in the Multi-Relation Database,î Techniques of Automation and Applications 2009, 28\(3\, pp.41-43   Liao Weiguo, Zhang Hongshu, ìRevie w of Mining Association Rules Internet fortune, 2009, 4, pp.26-27   Chen An, Chen Ning, ìData Mini ng Technology and Application Peking: Science Press, 2006, pp.50-110   Agrawal R, Skirant R, ìFast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Large Databases,î California: IB M Almaden Re-search Center, 1994 pp.28-36   WEN Zheng, LIANG Jian-wu,CHEN Ying, ìResearch of Association Rules Algorithm,î Computer Technology and Development, 2009 19\(5\, pp.56-58  
134 


Capacity for analysis and synthesisé, çResearch skills Capacity to learn 4   Interpersonal skills Leadershipé, çInterpersonal skillsé, çAbility to communicate with non-expertsé, çOral and written communications in native languageé, çCritical and self-critical capabilityé, çTeamworking 5   Personal skills Ability to work autonomously Problem solvingé, çCapacity to adapt to new situations Knowledge of a second languageé, çConcern for qualityé, çWill to succeedé, çElementary computing skillsé, çCapacity for applying knowledge in practice Decision makingé, çProject design and management Information management skills Table 7 shows the mean importance of each gr oup of competences by stakeholder group for the First Cycle Degree respondents. For the employers the personal skills are the most importance group followed by professional skills and interpersonal skills. The table confirms that employers rank internationalisation and entrepreneurship lowest. Academics agree with the order of the competence groups but rate all of them more strongly important than employers. Students also rank the competence groups in the same order but rate internationalisation slightly higher than employers and entrepreneurship very slightly lower Analysis of the level of development of the competenceas shows that there is good agreement that Professional skills are the best developed of the skill groups followed by Personal skills and Interpersonal skills. As with importance the Entrepreneurship and Internationalisation skill groups are developed the least. There is clearly a difference between the rated importance and level of development of these groups in that the Personal skills group is rated most important but the Professional skills group is developed the most. Other than that the general structure of the supply demand balance of the generic competences is quite well aligned V  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  The objective of this study was to apply the Tuning Methodology to the EIE discipline set to test the alignment between the views of the importance and level of development of sets of competences between students, academics and employers. The results of this study show that the Tuning Methodology is a useful tool for assessing alignment in these subjects  TABLE VII  MEAN IMPORTANCE OF EACH GROUP BY STAKEHOLDER  Competence Group Academic Employer Student Internationalization 2.86 2.63 2.79 Entrepreneurship 3.07 3.05 3.02 Interpersonal skills 3.23 3.09 3.06 Professional skills 3.36 3.29 3.13 Personal skills 3.44 3.30 3.29  In total 3,275 questionnaires have been collected from the stakeholder groups from a range of European countries. The number of responses from each c ountry is variable and a full by country analysis is not possible with the responses currently available, that said a range of analyses have been carried out Tests of the homogeneity of the responses across all countries show that there are country differences in some analyses and some of these are explored, others merit further investigation. Many of the analyses presented in this paper are aggregated results and therefore potentially suffer clustering problems. This too is a topic of further investigation The following is a summary of the key conclusions drawn from the analyses presented Consistent top of importance of the generic competences for all stakeholders is çProblem solvingé. Second in the ranking for students is çElementary computing skillsé. Comparatively students under rate the importance of this skill, perhaps it is taken for granted in students than in academics and employers The results show employers value it more than students and this message could be communicated to students A number of gaps exist between the importance and level of development between the stakeholders. The largest gap is Knowledge of a second languageé and the evidence from the languages section suggests this view is strongly aimed at English The generic competences group into 5 sets with çPersonal skillsé rated consistently as the most important set. This is followed, in descending order of importance, by çProfessional skillsé, çInterpersonal skillsé, çInternationalisationé and Entrepreneurshipé. The smallest mean çInternationalisation is just over midway between çweaké and çconsiderableé. Given the European Unionês desire to see greater student and employee mobility across Europe, it is clear there is scope for scope for improvement in the value placed in this skill set by curriculum designers Curriculum designers and academics can take comfort in the finding that çProfessional skillsé are the best developed of the skill gr oups followed by çPersonal sk illsé and Interpersonal skillsé. This not only aligns with the views of employers but aligns with anecdotal evidence on the real purpose of EIE education programmes. That said there is a trend in a number of countries across Europe away from large firm employment towards a Small to Medium Sized Enterprise culture. Curriculum designers may wish to reflect on the fact that entrepreneurial skills are very low in the list and perhaps merit more attention and emphasis in the curricula In general the different stakeholders rate the importance and level of development on average differently. This difference has been taken into account in the conclusions drawn. The general unevenness in ranking reflects different perspectives and is, in itself not considered a major issue, of concern are the relative positions of competences and the relative gaps. In general and even allowing for this employers and academics tend to rate competences higher in importance than students and graduates a number of specific instances of differences are drawn out in section 8 73 


After the text edit has been completed, the paper is ready for the template. Duplicate the template file by using the Save As command, and use the naming convention prescribed by your conference for the name of your paper. In this newly created file, highlight all of the contents and import your prepared text file. You are now ready to style your paper; use the scroll down window on the left of the MS Word Formatting toolbar A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The authors acknowledge the funding provided by the European Union for this project and to the members of the project team for help in collecting questionnaires R EFERENCES   1  European Association for Education in Electrical and Information Enginering http://www.eaeeie.org  2  EIE-Surveyor project http://www.eie-surveyor.org  3  Tuning Report http://tuning.unideusto.org/tuningeu/index.php?option=content&task=vi ew&id=172&Itemid=205  4  Overview of the Bologna Process Ö Implementation in Europe in Electrical and Informaiton Engineetringé, ISBN 2-9516740-3-1, pp 542  74 


              


   


                        





