 
 
   
  
  


    


          


       


services to their own requirements. Since not only internal but also external services are used, security aspects play a substantial role for the employment of the different services [21]. Consequently, enterprise mashups are characterised by a secure data handling and a user-friendly as well as controlled application. In October 2007, IBM released the IBM Mashup Center IBM claims that this software meets the requirements of enterprise mashups described above. It consists of two technologies: IBM Mashup Hub and QEDWiki The IBM Mashup Hub is a mashup server that stores information feeds. The QEDWiki functions as the user interface and enables non-IT users to "mash information from any data source [22 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 2.2.3. Classification on the basis of the location of the technical implementation. While the different user groups have different requirements for mashups the location of the technical implementation leads to different techniques for the creation of mashups and to particular characteristics Client-side mashups integrate and combine the services or contents on the client, usually in a Web browser. Internal as well as external sources are embedded directly into the client. [23 Server-side mashups are the pendant counter piece to client-side mashups and integrate content and services on the server. The internal server functions as a proxy between the client and respective providers, so that the work is relocated form the Web application client to the server [24]. In this way, the server functions as a buffer and data cache, allowing among other things interception and repair of incorrect data More importantly, the server-side solution enhances the handling of security requirements. The entire communication can be encrypted via various security measures. Due to these advantages, server-side mashups are highly relevant for the use in enterprises 14, 21, and 24 In this paper we analyse mashups as an architecture for knowledge management systems, i.e. mashups are examined for a professional use. This consequently restricts the target group to organisations and to the focus on enterprise mashups. The professional environment for the mashups also influences the location of implementation. On the one hand, security and rights management aspects are essential and, as already mentioned above, can be better managed with server-side mashups. On the other hand, server-side mashups reduce the traffic within the network. Because the integration and combination of the services and data occurs on the server, only the result of this combination is transferred over the network to the user 24]. With client-side mashups, every user needs the complete data capacity, since the integration takes place on the client. Both described aspects strengthen the case for server-side mashups. So far, in enterprises mashups are often used for the aggregation of information or data [19, 25], thus correspond to data level mashups. Nevertheless, especially with regard to the analysis of mashups as architecture for KMS, logicbased mashups have also been considered Summarizing the statements of this chapter, it can be said that for a consequential comparison we have to select server-side, data level or logic based, enterprise mashups Enterprise mashups have to be easily applicable by the user. Mashup-building platforms offer a way of achieving this goal. The following chapter describes a mashup stack to be used as reference architecture for such platforms 


 2.3. Mashup stack  Even though mashups are not much examined in the literature, approaches for mashup stacks have already been developed [19, 26]. Despite different names and designs, the mashup stacks possess the same core characteristics. On the basis of these stacks the framework of mashup-building platforms can be shown. Figure 3 depicts the fundamental structure of a mashup stack. It consists of five layers, which build on each other and show at the same time the procedure for the development of a mashup The lowest layer ?resources? represents the data and the Web services. They are the basis of a mashup and can be obtained from internal or external sources Because the content is available in different shapes and formats, it has to be prepared for the integration into a mashup. The same applies for legacy applications. Due to the loose coupling in a mashup, legacy applications have to be provided as loose components, e.g. by using wrappers or screen scrapers [27 The second level ?API? constitutes the access layer and provides standardised and suitable application programming interfaces \(API e. g. Microsoft Office rich APIs like DCOM services are important. Two types of APIs for Web services have to be considered both based on the Hyper Text Transfer Protocol \(HTTP oriented architecture [28, 29]. In both architectures HTTP can be regarded as an envelope that packs and sends the information. The Representational State Transfer or, in short, REST architecture as a resourceoriented form uses simple http methods like GET PUT, DELETE or POST to address Web services as resources The activity-oriented architecture uses remote procedure calls \(RPC distributed network. The essential difference to the RESTful architecture is that HTTP is only used for the transmission of the xml-based RPC. For this, SOAP has been established as the associated message structure. Web services using the activity-oriented architecture are called WS-* Web service, resourceoriented are called RESTful Web services [28, 29]. In summary, the second layer describes the functional and non functional characteristics of the resources and enables the loose coupling The two described layers are the basis for the creation of mashups. To open mashups to nontechnically experienced users, so called widgets are created in the third layer Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 Output Security policies Location of technical implementation Mashup Logic Arrangement, connecting and composing of widgets Widgets Reusable mashup fragments in form of micro applications for small individual tasks API Restful + WS-* Web Services Desktop and Intranet APIs Resources Data Services Mashup Stack  Figure 3. Mashup stack 


Figure 3. Mashup stack  Depending on the respective context, widgets are defined in different ways in the literature. With respect to mashups, widgets are micro applications for a small individual task in the form of components. For the mashup stack this means that the functions and data are provided as modules [19, 26]. Accordingly, widgets are reusable mashup fragments [30] which can be arranged and composed via drag-and-drop in a graphical development kit [19]. In this way, they convert the interfaces of the second layer into a graphical depiction. For the creation of mashups widgets are generally optional, since programming can be done manually. Nevertheless, widgets constitute an intermediate layer, which is important for the userdriven micro orchestration The fourth layer contains the mashup logic. The separate components \(in the form of widgets combined into a mashup. In its simplest form, a mashup just consists of a number of widgets arranged on the same screen. Thus the user can create personalised portals that integrate the chosen components. By connecting widgets to each other more complex mashups can be created. The Web services embedded in the widgets communicate with each other and exchange information. It is also possible to enhance mashups with program logic, similar to traditional software development tools. In this most complex type of mashup, for example iteration looping or complex data types are used. This way of creating mashups is almost similar to conventional software development, so that mashup-building platforms have to be prepared for this kind of requirements The output layer determines all aspects of the publication of the developed applications. For one thing, security policies have to be managed, e.g. who is allowed to access which mashup. Mashups with noncritical contents and results can be provided as a separate Web service. Secondly, the output layer deals with the location where the mashup and the mashup building platform are hosted [19, 26  3. Mashups as an architecture for knowledge management systems  The following chapter analyses to what extent mashups can be used as architecture for knowledge management systems. The previously presented mashup stack is employed as a basis for the comparison between the architecture of mashups and knowledge management systems \(KMS  3.1. KMS architecture  A KMS is defined as an information and communication technology system, developed to support and enhance explicit and tacit organizational knowledge. A KMS assists users in all tasks of knowledge management, e. g. knowledge creation storage/retrieval, transfer and application [31]. In order to classify KMS, several architecture models with differences in focus and origin have been proposed Especially regarding the level of abstraction there are significant differences. A lot of architectures show the functions of KMS on a very abstract level. One example is the generic KMS architecture of Frank [32 Based on the level of abstraction of knowledge, three consecutive layers are proposed. The examination is largely detached from concrete implementations and functions of the system. The same applies to the three 


functions of the system. The same applies to the threetiered architecture of Chua [33]. The abstraction level is high and the architecture was developed for consultants as well as technologists. A more specific classification and an example for a comprehensive layer architecture has been done by Lindvall et al. [34 They classify the different KM tools into seven layers A number of potential functions are discussed however a structured design for a KMS is not provided. Moreover, the literature provides further similar architecture approaches, e. g. Ovum KM tools Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 Access Services Personalisation Services Knowledge Services Publication Search Collaboration Learning Integration Services Infrastructure Services Data and Knowledge Sources Output Mashup Logic Widgets API Core Mashup Resources Architecture of KMS Architecture of Mashups  Figure 4. Comparison of the architectures of knowledge management systems and mashups  architectural model [33, 35]. It is a comprehensive approach but actual deployment examples are missing In this paper we resort to the generic KMS architecture developed by Maier. The architecture incorporates different approaches from research and practice [36 In contrast to other approaches which are oversimplified for our analysis, this architecture is relatively complex. The lower layers are in comparison to three-tired architectures specified in more detail and the described functions of Lindvall et al. [34] are included as well. In addition to the reasons above, the technological architecture of Maier is advantageous because the layers build upon each other technology 36], similar to the mashup-reference-architecture in chapter 2.3. The architecture consists of six layers \(see figure 4 external data and knowledge sources. Through infrastructure and integration services these resources are transferred into the system. The fourth layer provides knowledge services, e. g. for knowledge search, publication, collaboration or learning. Via the layer personalisation services these knowledge services can be customised individually. The access services in the sixth layer control security and output aspects [36  3.2. Mashups as architecture for KMS  As already described in chapter 3.1, a KMS is an IT system to develop and support organizational knowledge. Since every person processes knowledge in a different way [37], it is suggestive to adapt a KMS to the requirements of the user as far as possible. The definition as well as the classification of mashups in chapter 2 have shown that mashups are no specific software for a defined problem, but miscellaneously deployable [12]. Since in the best case the user creates the mashup himself, it should fit his requirements Especially in the knowledge development and linking mashups are already used in organisations [17, 19 The next step is consequently to examine mashups as a KMS Figure 4 shows a comparison of the layer architectures of knowledge management systems and 


architectures of knowledge management systems and mashups. The layers are compared and analysed in the following Data and information layer vs. mashup resources. In both architectures, the required resources are accessed in the lowest layers. In this process, both not only require data and information, but also services and legacy applications [27, 36 Infrastructure and integration services vs. APIlayer. The infrastructure services in KMS and the APIs in the mashup architecture share similarities. Both are required for the upper layers to access the resources. In KMS, different services of the internet form the elementary infrastructure. The same applies to the APILayer in mashups. On the basis of Web-based structures, like the intranet, services and data are integrated via interfaces. However, the difference in this layer between KMS and Mashups is the handling of the integration of legacy systems. While KMS solve the interface compatibility amongst other by the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 implementation of middleware [36], in mashups the interfaces have to be adjusted to standardized APIs 38]. Furthermore, the integration services of KMS offer functions that are not provided by the API-layer in the mashup architecture. For one thing, these services administrate, structure and organise knowledge elements. For this purpose metadata systematics, e. g. in the form of ontologies or controlled vocabularies, are used. Furthermore, the integration services contain an overarching user rights management, which includes directories with competences, tasks, organisational rules and authorisations [36]. Both described functions of the integration services are important for a responsible and sustainable dealing with the resource knowledge in enterprises [39 Knowledge services vs. widgets. In this layer, data and services allocated via interfaces are provided in modules. In KMS, these modules are special tools for knowledge management; e. g. tools for knowledge search, knowledge presentation or collaboration. In this regard, the respective mashup layer has a far more general purpose. Besides the aforementioned functions services and data that are not directly related to knowledge management can be combined and unified Furthermore, the flexible character of mashups allows for a better customisation of the designated knowledge services to the concrete requirements of the users Knowledge intensive and individual activities are only insufficiently supported through standard software. As the users can assort and adapt the services themselves mashups are much more flexible than KMS. A simple example is a customized meta-search in mashups. The different available search services can be selected arranged and customized to the users? requests [17 Personalisation services vs. mashup logic. In KMS, individual profiles that fit the requirements of the users can be created via personalisation services The mashup logic layer resembles the personalisation services. Different modules, potentially in the form of widgets, are combined based on individual users requests. As a result, individual mashup portals evolve just like in KMS. In addition, the mashup logic allows the creation of more complex connections between the services. For instance by connecting the Web services the to do list could be displayed as a mind map. In this way new applications are developed, which can not be implemented that easy in KMS Access services vs. output. Both layers provide largely the same functions. They both enable the access 


largely the same functions. They both enable the access and output of the used services, portals or new applications. In mashups, the output layer also regulates the location of the technical implementation i.e. client or server-side mashups. Due to the mentioned reasons in chapter 2.3, for this comparison mashups are restricted to server-side. In KMS this question does not arise, since KMS are mostly realised in form of client/server architectures [40 The comparison of the architectures of KMS and mashups shows several similarities. The architectures consist of five respectively six layers that are similar in their respective functions. Furthermore, each layer is the basis for the layers above. However, there are some differences between the architectures. KMS are specifically designed for the support of knowledge management. The knowledge services as the core elements of KMS are existent from the beginning whereas in mashups these services have to be created as widgets first, possibly by the user himself. More important is the missing of an overarching user rights management in mashups in contrast to KMS. In return mashups allow the integration of every type of data as well as services and to combine them in higher layers A maximised customisation to the requirements of the user is enabled through user participation in this process  3.3. Integration of mashups in architectures of KMS  The comparison in chapter 3.2 showed that the architectures of KMS and mashups share many similarities, and that both have their respective advantages. Consequently it is reasonable to combine both architectures and try to integrate mashups as components of KMS. Through this approach, KMS can use mashup technologies to improve the support of individual and intensive knowledge activities. In return mashups are integrated into the infrastructure of KMS and by that into a structured rights system Figure 5 shows a potential integration of mashups into the architecture of KMS. The lowest layer Services, Data and Knowledge Sources? in the combined architecture can be used by both mashups and the original KMS. For mashups this layer represents the core mashup resources. In this process it is important that the services for the mashups persist as independent services [11], so they can be combined autonomously in widgets. This applies for the layer infrastructure services? as well. The infrastructure layer has to support explicitly the APIs for WS- and Restful Web services. The most important improvement for mashups compared to the former mashup stack, is the addition of integration services The integration services include a rights management system for all data and services from lower layers [36 For this reason, the rights management system can be used for mashups and their widgets as well Furthermore, the services and data can be enhanced by useful metadata in the integration layer. This metadata Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 Access Services / Output Personalisation Services / Mashup Logic Knowledge Services Integration Services Infrastructure Services Services, Data and Knowledge Sources Widgets Architecture of an integrated Mashup and KM System Publication Search Collaboration Learning 


 Figure 5. Integrated architecture of mashups and KMS  can improve and simplify the creation as well as the use of widgets for the user, which is important concerning the user participation within the mashup concept The widgets as additional components exist in parallel to the knowledge services of the KMS. Thus the user can use the specific knowledge services and create own mashup applications with Web services and data. The knowledge services themselves could be provided as widgets. Through this process, every tool can be used flexibly. The combination of knowledge services and the created widgets is done in the personalisation services layer respectively the mashup logic. In case all knowledge services are provided as widgets, this layer only consists of the mashup logic Otherwise the layer has to be extended with personalisation services of the KMS. In the end, the access and output layer provides user profiles which regulate access to the actual KMS and the created mashups. The shared knowledge platform helps to diffuse the created mashups. Moreover, the user has the possibility to modify mashups and widgets, so that in the course of time an evolution of the initial mashups occurs  4. Conclusion  The use of Web 2.0 technologies for corporate knowledge management is currently discussed intensely. In this context wikis, blogs and social bookmarking are often mentioned [41]. However, we have shown that mashups also offer interesting possibilities for knowledge management systems We first analysed mashups as an architecture for KMS. Because of the found similarities and differences, an integration of mashups into a classical KMS architecture was examined afterwards. Through this integrated solution, one can benefit from the special features of mashups as well as of KMS Summarising this paper, it can be said that mashups can be applied as an architecture for KMS. Especially the flexible bonding of new data and services by the user himself increases the usability of such systems and supports knowledge intensive processes. The task for future research will be a closer investigation of mashups in concrete knowledge management scenarios. Two general scenarios are possible. In the first scenario, mashups can be used as a KMS in security uncritical scenarios. In the second scenario for a secure handling of data, an integration of mashup functionalities into a KMS has to be examined. Here especially the interaction between the integration services, the knowledge services and the widgets has to be investigated. For the future, the increasing implementation of mashups in corporate applications can be expected, so that the importance of mashups for KMS will be further rising    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 5. References  1] Gartner Group, ?Gartner?s Top 10 Strategic Technologies for Organizations in 2008?, http://seekingalpha.com/article 63601-gartners-top-10-strategic-technologies-for-organizatio ns-in-2008, 2008, retrieved 2008-06-12  


 2] V. Sambamurthy, and M. Subramani, ?Information technologies and knowledge management?, MIS Quarterly Vol. 29, No. 1, 2005, pp. 1-7  3] T. H. Davenport, D. W. De Long, and M. C. Beers Sucessful knowledge management projects?, in the Knowledge Management Yearbook 1999-2000, 2000 pp. 98-107  4] E. Oren, A. Haller, M. Hauswirth, B.  Heitmann S. Decker, and C. Mesnage, ?A Flexible Integration Framework for Semantic Web 2.0 Applications?, in IEEE Software, Vol. 24; No. 5, 2007, pp. 64-71  5] J. Meza, and Q. Zhu, ?Mix, Match, Rediscover: A Mashup Experiment of Knowledge Organization in an Enterprise Environment?, in International Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. 4, Issue 1, 2008, pp. 65-76  6] T. O?Reilly, ?What Is Web 2.0 http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/oreilly/tim/news/2005/09/3 0/what-is-web-20.html, 2005, retrieved 2008-06-12  7] R. Guo, B. B. Zhu, M. Feng, A. Pan, and B. Zhou Compoweb: a component-oriented web architecture?, in Proceeding of the 17th international Conference on World Wide Web, Beijing, China, 2008, pp. 545-554  8] K. E. Kendall, and A. Schmidt, ?Mashups: The Art of Creating New Applications by Combining Two or More Web Sites?, in Decision Line, Vol.  03/07, 2007, pp. 15-16  9] A. Cho, ?An introduction to Mashups for health librariens?, in Journal of the Canadian Health Libraries Association, No. 28,  2007, pp 19-22  10] M. A. Ca  as, J. J. Hierro, V. Hoyer1, T. Janner, D Lizcano, M. Reyes, C. Schroth, and J. Soriano, ?Enterprise Mashup Putting a face on the next generation global SOA in Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Web Information Systems Engineering, 2007  11] G. Gruman, ?Enterprise Mashups?, in InfoWorld Vol. 28, No. 31, 2006, pp. 18-20  12] O. D  az, S. P  rez, and I. Paz, ?Providing Personalized Mashups Within the Context of Existing Web Applications In Lecture Notes in Computer Science, No. 4831, 2007 pp. 493-502  13] D. Linthicum, ?Make mashups secure http://www.infoworld.com/article/07/08/06/32FEmashsec_1 html, 2007, retrieved 2008-06-12  14] S. Kulkarni, ?Enterprise Mashup?, in Proceedings of IndicThreads.com Conference On Java Technology, 2007  15] A. Dornan, ?Enterprise Mashups: Mashed Or HalfBaked??, http://www.networkcomputing.com/immersion soa-ws/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=201804242, 2007 retrieved 2008-06-12  16] P. J. Murray, ?Web 2.0 and social technologies: what might they offer for the future of health informatics?? In the National Health Information System in New Zealand. Health Care and Informatics Review Online, June 2008 http://hcro.enigma.co.nz/website/index.cfm?fuseaction=articl edisplay&amp;FeatureID=010608, retrieved 2008-08-25  17] N. Kulathuramaiyer, ?Mashups: Emerging Application Development Paradigm for a Digital Journal?, Journal of 


Development Paradigm for a Digital Journal?, Journal of Universal Computer Science, Vol. 13, No. 4, 2007 pp. 531-542  18] Serena Software, ?Business mashups - Build and deploy applications without the need for professional developers Whitepaper, http://www.zdnet.co.uk/i/z5/ads/whitpapers Serena/2008_q1/Serena%20business-mashups-Q12008.pdf 2007, retrieved 2008-06-12  19] Proto Software, ?Mashups - Understanding Mashup Building Platforms for Business Applications http://www.zdnet.de/itmanager/whitepapers/0,39026294,880 11773p-39002281q,00.htm, 2007  20] H. Markquis, ?The Rise of Shadow IT http://www.cioupdate.com/reports/article.php/11050_363305 6_1, 2006, retrieved 2008-06-10  21] K. Vikram, and M. Steiner, ?Mashup Component Isolation via Server-Side Analysis and Instrumentation?, in Proceedings of W2SP 2007 \(Web 2.0 Security and Privacy Workshop  22] IBM, ?IBM Mashup Starter Kit?, http://www.Alp haworks.ibm.com/tech/ibmmsk, retrieved 2008-08-25  23] E. Ort, S. Brydon, and M Basler, ?Mashup Styles, Part 2: Client-Side Mashups?, http://java.sun.com/developer technicalArticles/J2EE/mashup_2/, 2007, retrieved 2008-06-12  24] E. Ort, S. Brydon, and M Basler, ?Mashup Styles, Part 1: Server-Side Mashups?, http://java.sun.com/developer technicalArticles/J2EE/mashup_2/, 2007, retrieved 2008-06-12  25] A. Jhingran, ?Enterprise Information Mashups Integrating Information, Simply?, in Proceedings of the 32nd international conference on Very large data bases, 2006  26] V. Hoyer, K. Stanoevska-Slabeva, T. Janner and C. Schroth, ?Enterprise Mashups: Design Principles towards the Long Tail of User Needs?, in Proceedings of 2008 IEEE Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 International Conference on Services Computing, Hawaii 2008  27] C. Britton, ?IT architectures and middleware: strategies for building large, integrated systems?, Addison-Wesley Professional, Boston, 2000  28] L. Richardson, and S. Ruby, ?RESTful Web Services O'Reilly Media, Beijing, 2007  29] J. Snell, ?Resource-oriented vs. activity-oriented Web services?, in Lecture Notes in Computer Science, No. 4749 2007, pp. 13-26  30] R. Ennals, and D. Gay, ?User-Friendly Functional Programming for Web Mashups?, in Proceedings of the ICFP 07 conference, 2007, pp. 223-234  31] M. Alavi, and D. E. Leidner, ?Review: Knowledge Management and Knowledge Management Systems Conceptual Foundations and Research Issues?, in Management Information Systems Quartly, Vol. 25, Part 1 2001, pp. 109-136  32] U. Frank, ?Knowledge Management Systems: Essential 


32] U. Frank, ?Knowledge Management Systems: Essential Requirements and Generic Design Patterns?, In Proceedings of the international Symposium on Information Systems and Engineering, ISE'2001, Las Vegas 2001, pp. 114-121  33] A. Chua, ?Knowledge management system architecture a bridge between KM consultants and technologists?, in International journal of information management, Vol. 24 No. 1, 2004, pp. 87-98  34] M. Lindvall, I. Rus, and S. Sinha, ?Software systems support for knowledge management?, in Journal of knowledge management, Vol. 7, No. 5, 2003, pp. 137-150  35] K. Alwert, and I. Hoffmann, ?Knowledge Management Tools?, In: K. Mertins, P. Heisig, and J. Vorbeck \(eds Knowledge Management - Concepts and Best Practices 2. edition, Berlin, 2003, pp. 114-150  36] R. Maier, ?Knowledge Management Systems Information and Communication Technologies for Knowledge Management?, Springer, Berlin, 2004  37] P. L. Ackerman, ?Individual differences in skill learning: an integration of psychometric and information processing perspectives?, in Psychological bulletin, Vol. 102 No. 1, 1987, pp. 3-27  38] K. Viljanen, J. Tuominen, and E. Hyvonen, ? Publishing and Using Ontologies as Mash-Up Services?, in Proceedings of the 5th European Semantic Web Conference 2008 \(ESWC 2008  39] R. van der Spek, and A. Spijkervet, ?Knowledge Management: Dealing intelligently With Knowledge?, in Jay Liebowitz, Lyle Chester \(Ed Its Integrative Elements: and its integrative elements, CRCPress, New York, 1997  40] Galup, S. D. Dattero, R. Hicks, R. C., ?Knowledge Management Systems: An Architecture for Active and Passive Knowledge?, in Information Resources Management Journal, Vol. 15; Part 1, 2002, pp. 22-27  41] L. Damianos, J. Griffith, and D. Cuomo, ?Onomi: Social Bookmarking on a Corporate Intranet?, In Proceedings of the WWW 2006 Collaborative Web Tagging Workshop, 2006  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


 15 increased, and this needs to be considered for the maximum number of nodes in the network. Generally, latency will be largest for the T scheme, so when the range gets larger and larger as it may in some aeronautical networks, this could constitute a problem. In terms of latency, in general, the F scheme is best and then the TF schemes The TF schemes require fewer frequency channels than the F scheme, and most TF schemes employ single carrier transmission. Thus although the F scheme has its own advantages, TF schemes may be good alternatives to the F scheme, especially for the long range aeronautical networks considering characteristics such as flexibility, resource efficiency, etc. Moreover, if n needs to be changed, TF schemes are more convenient because they can change the number of time slots, or if possible, can change the number of frequency channels, or even change both In practice, for both commercial and military applications additional issues arise, such as power constraints, spatial isolation with directional antennas, adjacent channel interference. Among other things, such as the use of spread spectrum, these are areas for future work 9  C ONCLUSIONS  In this paper, we analyzed time, frequency, and multiple time-frequency schemes applie d to the non-redundant uni and bi- directional wireless relay networks, and conducted a straightforward comparison of several duplexing multiplexing/MA schemes in terms of resource allocation constraints, required data rate per transmission to obtain a desired average throughput, required transmit power per link, and relative range. Although commonly employed pure time division techniques appear adequate in some cases, such as short range networks, our results indicate that appropriately designed time-frequency schemes are preferable in terms of data ra te and/or SNR, especially for long range aeronautical networ ks. In addition, we can obtain the conclusion that pure frequency division schemes attain the largest range for a given data rate and performance. We also discussed the capacity and cost of the network, with results that use of frequency division or certain time-frequency divisi on schemes are superior For future work, we can ex tend the analysis of relay network from point-to-point links to point-to-multipoint link, such as in redundant relay network or ad-hoc network   We al so m a y consi d er usi ng spread spect rum t o  separate the user transmissions R EFERENCES   J. G. Proakis Digital Communications 5 th ed., McGraw-Hill New York, NY, 2008   L. W Couch Digital and Analog Communication Systems 7 th  ed., Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2007    A. Mehrotra GSM System Engineering Artech House, Boston MA, 1997    D. W. Matolak, \223Duplexing, Mu ltiplexing, and Multiple Access A Comparative Analysis For Mesh Networks,\224 Proc  MILCOM 2008   J. D. Cam p E. W  Knightly  223 T he IEEE 802.11s Extended Service Set Mesh Networking Standard,\224 IEEE Comm. Mag  vol. 46, no. 8, pp. 120-125, August 2008   F. Li, Y. Wang, \223Routing in Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks: A Survey,\224 IEEE Vehicular Tech. Mag vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 12-22 June 2007   P. Gupta P R Kumar, \223The Capacity of Wireless Networks,\224 IEEE Trans. Information Theory vol. 46, pp. 388-404, March 2000   F. Xue, P. R. Kumar, \223The Number of Neighbors Needed for Connectivity of Wireless Networks,\224 Wireless Networks \(ACM Journal vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 169-181, March 2004    C Comaniciu, H. V. Poor 223On Energy-Efficient Cross-Layer Design: Joint Power Control and Routing for Ad Hoc Networks,\224 EURASIP Journ. Wireless Comm. & Networking  Article ID 60706, Volume 2007   M. Van der Schaar, S Shankar, \223Cross-Layer Wireless Multimedia Transmission: Challenges, Principles, and New Paradigms,\224 IEEE Wireless Comm. Mag vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 5058, Aug. 2005   K. Stamatiou, J G. Proakis, \223Assessing the Impact of Physical Layer Techniques on Ad Hoc Network Performance,\224 Physical Communication Journal \(Elsevier vol. 1, pp. 84-91, 2008   G. Ferrari, S. A. Malvassori O. K. Tonguz, \223On Physical LayerOriented Routing with Power Control in Ad Hoc Wireless Networks,\224 Proc. IET Communications vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 306319, 2008   A. Oty a kmaz, R. Schoenen, S Dreier, B. H. Walke, \223Parallel Operation of Half- and Full-Duplex FDD in Future Multi-Hop Mobile Radio Networks,\224 Proc. 14 th European Wireless Conf  Prague, Czech Republic, 22-25 June 2008   P  W  C. Chan, et. al., \223 T he Evolution Path of 4G Networks FDD or TDD?\224 IEEE Comm. Mag vol. 44, no. 12, pp. 42-50 December 2006    L. Schiavone, \223Airborne Networking\227Approaches and Challenges,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22204 Monterey, CA, Oct. 31 Nov. 3, 2004  


 16   D J. Van Hook, M. O. Y eager, J. D. Laird, \223Automated Topology Control for Wideband Di rectional Links in Airborne Military Networks,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22205 Atlantic City, NJ, 1720 October 2005   Grie ssle r  J B Ca in  R. Hanks, \223Modeling Architecture for DTDMA Channel Access Protocol for Mobile Network Nodes using Directional Antennas,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22207 Orlando, FL 29-31 October 2007   K. Karras, T. Ky ritsis, M. A Amirfeiz, S. Baiotti, \223Aeronautical Mobile Ad Hoc Networks,\224 Proc. 14 th European Wireless Conference Prague, Czech Republic, 22-25 June 2008    C. Rokitansky M Ehammer, T Graupl, M. Schnell, S. Brandes S. Gligorevic, C. Rihacek, M. Sajatovic, \223B-AMC\227A System for Future Broadband Aeronautical Multicarrier Communications in the L Band,\224 Proc. IEEE Digital Avionics Systems Conf Dallas, TX, 21-25 October 2007   S  Adams B Cain K Olds P. Griessler, \223A Comparison of FDD and TDD/TDMA Architectures for Airborne Backbone Network Traffic,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22208 San Diego, CA, 17-19 November 2008   L. K a nt, et. al 223 N ED A T\227A Toolset to Design and Analyze Future Force Networks,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22208 San Diego, CA 17-19 November 2008    L Kant et al., \223Network Science Based Approaches to Design and Analyze MANETs for Military Applications,\224 Proc MILCOM \22208 San Diego, CA, 17-19 November 2008   Information Theory for Mob ile Ad Hoc Networks \(ITMANET DARPA IPTO program http://www.darpa.mil/ipto/pr ograms/itmanet/itmanet.asp  December 2008   J. Andrews, et. al., \223Rethinki ng Information Theory for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks,\224 IEEE Comm. Mag vol. 46, no. 12, pp. 94101, December 2008   J. Sy dir, R. Taori, \223An Evolved Cellular System Architecture Incorporating Relay Stations,\224 IEEE Comm. Mag pp. 115-121 June 2009   J R Povey  H Holma A Toskala 223Hy b rid FDD/TDDCDMA for third generation cellular systems,\224 IEE Colloquium on CDMA Techniques and Apps. for 3G Mobile Sys pp. 2/12/6, May 1997  S. W. Peters, R. W Heat h, \223The Future of WiMAX: Multihop Relaying with IEEE 802.16j.\224 IEEE Communications Magazine pp. 104-111, Jan. 2009   J. Yang, J. Boy d D. Lane y, J. Schlenzig, \223Next Generation Half-Duplex Common Data Link,\224 Proc. MILCOM \22207  Orlando, FL, 29-31 October 2007  B IOGRAPHY  Qian Zhang received the B.S degree from Shandong University China in 2006, and the M.S. degree from Ohio University, U.S. in 2008 both in electrical engineering. Her M.S. thesis topic was wireless nearground channel characterization in several unlicensed bands. During her master\222s degree, she intern ed at Alcatel-Lucent Inc. in summer 2007. Since September 2008, she has been a Ph.D candidate in electrical engineering at Ohio University.  She interned at the National Institute of Standards and Technology \(NIST\ in summer 2009 and was awarded a NIST grant for the 2009-2010 academic year. Her research interests are radio channel modeling, relay and ad hoc networks David W. Matolak  S-\22282, M-\22283, SM-\22200\ received the B.S. degree from The Pennsylvania State University University Park, in 1983, the M.S. degree from The University of Massachusetts, Amherst, in 1987, and the Ph.D. degree from The University of Virginia Charlottesville, in 1995, all in electrical engineering. He was with the Rural Electrification Administration Washington, D.C., from 1983 to 1985, and worked on specialized rural telecommunication systems. From 1985 to 1986, he was with the UMass LAMMDA Laboratory, where he worked on the full-wave analysis, design, fabrication and testing of planar microwave transmission lines and antennas. From 1986 to 1989 he was with AT&T Bell Laboratories Microwave R adio Systems Development Department, where he worked on the analytical and empirical characterization of nonlinearities and their effect on QAM transmission. In 1990, he joined the University of Virginia's Communication Systems Laboratory, where worked on analysis of trellis coding and equalization for TDMA mobile radio systems. From 1994 to 1996, he was with Lockheed Martin Tactical Communication Systems where he was Lead System Engineer on development of a wireless local loop synchronous code division multiple access communication system. From 1996 to 1998, he was with the MITRE Corp., where he worked on the analysis and modeling of various digital radio communication systems. He was with Lockheed Martin Global Telecommunications from 1998 to 1999 and worked on mobile satellite communication system analysis and design Since September 1999, he has been with the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Ohio University, Athens. His research interests are communication over fading channels, radio channel modeling, multicarrier \(MC\ transmission, and mobile ad hoc networks. Dr. Matolak is a member of Eta Kappa Nu and Sigma Xi. He has served on numerous IEEE Conference Technical Program committees and was also Chair of the Geo Mobile Radio Standards group in the Telecommunications Industries Association\222s \(TIA\222s 


 17 Satellite Communications Division  


engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial processes, neurotechnology and cardiotechnology, and unmanned systems. His research work has been sponsored by government and industry and has published over 250 technical papers in his area of expertise. He is the lead author of a book on "Intelligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis of Engineering Systems" published by Wiley in 2006. He is the recipient of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Activities award and the ECE Distinguished Professor award Romeo de la Cruz del Rosario, Jr. is the Chief of the Electronics Technology Branch at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. He also serves as the Army Technology Objective ATO P&amp;D Operational Readiness and Condition Based Maintenance He received the B.E.E. degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and the M.S.E. and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Since 1991 he has been an engineer at the Harry Diamond Laboratory then U.S Army Research Laboratory working in several areas including high power microwave technology characterization &amp; modeling of heterostructure RF devices and fabrication and failure analysis of electron devices and circuits  pre></body></html 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





