Intrusion Detection System Based on New Association Rule Mining Model Tian-rui Li Department of Mathematics Southwest Jiaotong University Chengdu 610031 China trli@swjtu.edu.cn Abstract-Intrusion detection is a problem of great significance to protecting information systems security Its techniques fail into two general categories anomaly detection and misuse detection which complement each other This research focuses on anomaly detection techniques for intrusion detection Presently several approaches based on classical association rule mining have been proposed for intrusion detection Because two shortages existed in classical association rule mining problem namely every itemset is treated equivalently and a uniform minimum support 
and minimum confidence is used as weighing standard many rules and uninteresting rules will be generated that causes low effectiveness of intrusion detection Based on new association rule mining model proposed by Li etc 2002 that can solve the two shortages at the same time a new intrusion detection system was proposed Because the interest of item as a degree is used and the mining algorithm is based on FP-tree our preliminary experiment results show that the proposed system is more robust and efficient than that based on APRIORI Index Terms-Intrusion detection Association rule Network security Data mining I INTRODUCTION A long with the development 
of computer network technology intrusion detection used to capture malicious activities occurring in computer network systems is becoming more and more important Intrusion detection techniques fall into two general categories anomaly detection and signature recognition which complement each other This paper focuses on anomaly detection techniques for intrusion detection Today there are many commercial intrusion detection systems available that are used to collect system and network activity data and analyze the information to determine whether there is an attack occurring These commercial implementations are generally restricted in their monitoring and analysis functionalities and more research is currently being conducted 
to improve these functionalities111 Yet until now the problem of low detection rates is not solved and it shows that there exist no approach that can perform better than other approaches in all situations[24 Therefore we must develop techniques in order to improve the effectiveness of the intrusion detection system Presently data mining methods such as hidden Markov model HMM support machine learning artificial neural network statistical techniques and expert systems have been used to build automatic anomaly detection systems that profile the normal system activities so that abnormal  This work is partially SUDpOrted by NSFC Grant 60474022 0-7803-9017-2/057$20.00 C2005 IEEE Wu-ming 
Pan College of Software Engineering Sichuan University Chengdu 610065 China fluedpan@hotmail.com activities can be detected by comparing the current activities with the profile[57 11-4 20-22 Among these methods several approaches based on classical association rule mining have been proposed for intrusion detection Since the goal of mining association rules is to derive multi-feature attribute correlations from a database table It has been observed that program executions and user activities exhibit frequent correlations among system features Audit data can be formatted into a database table where each row is an audit record and each column is a field system feature of the audit records Lee and Stolfo extended the basic association 
rule algorithms to capture consistent behavior in program execution and user activities The rules mined from audit data are merged and added into an aggregate rule set to form the user's normal profile To analyze a user login session frequent patterns are mined from the sequence of commands during the session and this new pattern set is compared with the established profile pattern set Similarity functions are used to evaluate deviations to generate alarms in case of intrusive behaviors These methods perform well in the latest DARRPA evaluations 5-71 However two shortages exist in classical association rule mining problem namely every itemset 
is treated equivalently and a uniform minimum support and minimum confidence is used as weighing standard1191 Many rules and uninteresting rules will be generated in the process of intrusion detection that causes its low effectiveness Even though the essential features such as axis features in 5 are used and then the basic association rule mining algorithms are extended the above problems still exist Because new association rule mining model p-association rule mining introduced in 19 can solve the two above shortages at the same time a new intrusion detection system was developed based on it Since the interest of item as a degree is 
used and the mining algorithm is based on FP-tree our preliminary experiments show that the proposed system is more robust and efficient than that based on APRIORI II OVERViEW of NEW AsSOCiATIoN RULE MINING MODEL Followings are the basic concepts of new association rule mining model p-association rule miningE'91 Let I be a set of all the items in a transaction database TDB Definition 1 Let p be a function from P\(J to 0  o0 which satisfy for any two subsets X Y of I if X c Y then p\(X  p\(Y Then p is called as a function of the degree of 512 


interest on I where p\(X represents the degree of interest of X and p\(x  p\(Y represents that the itemset X is less interesting than Y Definition 2 Let qp be a function of the degree of interest on I and x c i The p-support of the itemset X in TDB is defined as supp X p\(X denoted as p-supp X Definition 3 An itemset X is said to be p-frequent if its p-support in TDB is at least 4 given minimum support The set FI of p-frequent itemsets in TDB is FI  X c Il A supp\(X  Definition 4 A p-association rule is an implication between itemsets of the form X Y  Where X YE FI and x n Y  242p The itemset X is called the antecedent of the rule and the itemset Y is called the consequent The p-support of a p-association rule denoted as p-supp X  Y is defined as p-supp x U y The p-confidence of the rule denoted as p-conf X  Y  is defined as p-supp X U Y p-supp X Definition 5 The task of mining p-association rules consists in generating all valid p-association rules i e p-association rules with p-supp and p-conf are at least minimum support and minimum conference respectively It is obvious that p-association rule mining is a direct generalization of association rule mining It can also be decomposed by two subproblems 1 Find all p-frequent itemsets in TDB 2 Generate all p-association rules Like classical association rule mining the problem of p-association rules mining can also be reduced to the problem of finding p-frequent itemsets Definition 6 An itemset is a closed itemset if there exists no itemset Y such that Y is a proper superset of X and every transaction containing X also contains Y Because closed itemsets reserve all the information of itemset we will use this property to simplify our problem Definition 7 A closed itemset is called as p-frequent closed itemset if its p-support is at least the given minimum support Definition 8 The task of mining p-frequent closed itemset consists in generating all p-frequent closed itemset from a transaction database Proposition 1 For every one p-frequent itemset there exists only one a closed itemset Y which is also p-frequent satisfy that XcY and supp\(X Y From this proposition if all the p-frequent closed itemsets are mined then we can obtain all p-frequent itemsets according the function of degree of interest of itemset Therefore we may only consider the problem of mining p-frequent closed itemset Because the amount of p-frequent closed itemsets is less than p-frequent itemsets the effectiveness of mining will be enhanced greatly III ARCHITECTURE of INTRUSION DETECTION SYSTEM From the definition of p-association rule mining in order to use it to develop new intrusion detection system we have to define the interest of items firstly which is also a core task because it is close related to the effectiveness of the intrusion detection system Generally the interests of items are defined by users and experts according to their experiments etc The following is the architecture of new intrusion detection system based on p-association rule mining Audit data Fig 1 Architecture of intrusion detection system The concrete process of intrusion detection is 1 Define the interest of items according to users and experts 2 Build a profile of normal intrusion free behavior of 513 


computer systems and networks The algorithm of mining p-frequent closed itemsets is used in this step to extract the profile Hence the profile is represented as a typical sequence of events in the system 3 New arriving events are mined and the results are compared to normal profile The anomalous deviations from normal behaviors are considered as potential intrusion System will generate alert events to security administrator In this new intrusion detection system all the data audited are formatted into a database table where each row is an audit record and each column is a field system feature of the audit records We only consider the p-frequent closed itemsets from the database that are used to construct normal profile The algorithm for mining p-frequent closed itemsets by the FP-tree method is as follows[191 Algorithm Mining p-frequent closed itemsets by the FP-tree method Input An audited database ADB a minimum support threshold  and p which only gives the degree of interest for every item Output The complete set of p-frequent closed itemsets Method 1 Initialization Let FCI be the set of p-frequent closed itemset initialized as  2 Find out all frequent items Scan ADB once find out F-list\(4/lk and obtain ID-list\(E/lk according to p 3 Recursively mining p-frequent closed itemset Call Gen-\(p-CSET\(O,ADB F-list\(Ejlk ID-list\(4/lk FCI Subroutine Gen-\(p-CSET\(X DB F-list\(4/lm ID-list\(4/lm FCI Parameters a X if DB is ADB then X is Or if DB is X-conditional database[I9 then X if a frequent itemset b DB conditional database c F-list\(t/lm Frequent item list in DB im is the largest degree of interest of item in DB d ID-list\(&/lm Degree of Interest item list in DB e FCI p-frequent closed itemsets be mined Method a Let Y is a set of some p-frequent items in ID-lista\(4/lm where every item in it all appear in every transaction of DB If XuY is not a proper subset of an itemset in FCI of the same support then insert it into FCI b Construct FP-tree of DB c If FP-tree only has one path then we can directly extract p-frequent closed itemsets from it d For every of the rest items in ID-lista\(/lm construct its conditional database and calculate the local frequent item list of these conditional databases e For every of the rest items in ID-lista\(,/lm start at the last one item in ID-lista\(4/lm If aX is not a proper subset of an p-frequent closed itemset be mined of the same support then recursively call Gen-\(p-CSET\(aX DBa F-lista\(@jlm ID-lista\(4/lm FCI where DBla is an a-conditional database with respect to DB F-lista\(/Ilm is its corresponding frequent item list ID-lista\(/lm is its corresponding degree of interest item list Since this algorithm is based on FP-tree which is more effective than APRIORI in 5 the intrusion detection system based on this algorithm is more effective than previous system based on APRIORI Also it is robust because it uses interest of item as a degree to detect anomalous deviations and the interest of the same item in different systems or networks may also be different due to experts or users experiences Several tests have already been performed which suggested that the methodology is feasible In addition from our experiments in the network of our department the results of proposed method in some aspects especially time is better than that method based on APRIORI IV CONCLUSION The popularization of shared networks and internet usage demands increases attention on information system security particularly on intrusion detection The use of new association rule mining model p-association rule mining based data mining method to realize intrusion detections was proposed It can overcome the two shortages existed in classical association rule mining problem that is used in intrusion detection system Since the mining algorithm is based on FP-tree and uses interest of item as a degree to detect anomalous deviations the effectiveness of intrusion detection is enhanced compared to that based on APRIORI However there is much remained to be explored besides conducting more comprehensive experiments and evaluations in different systems or networks Other future work should incorporate our method in real system for security task Also the problem of how to use the method appropriately such as how to define the interest of items appropriately in real applications should be pursued firther REFERENCES 1 R Bace Intrusion Detection Macmillan Technical Publishing Indianapolis USA 2000 2 P Downland S Furnell A Conceptual Intrusion Monitoring Architecture and Thoughts on Practical Implementation in IFEP'OO 2000 3 R Von A process approach to information security management in IFIP'93 WG 1 1.1 Toronto Canada 1993 4 R Power 2001 CSI/FBI Computer Crime and Security Survey Computer Security Issues and Trends Vol.VII No.1 pp 1-20 2001 5 W Lee S Stolfo K Mok A data mining framework for building intrusion detection models in Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy 1999 pp 120 132 6 W Lee S Stolfo S Chan et al Real time data mining-based intrusion detection in Proceedings of DARPA Information Survivability Conference  Exposition II Vol 1 2001 pp 89 100 7 W Fan M Miller S J Stolfo W Lee P K Chan Using artificial anomalies to detect unknown and known network intrusions in Proceedings Data Mining 2001 pp 123 130 8 R Kemmerer G Vigna Intrusion detection a brief history and overview Computer Vol 35 Issue 4 pp 27 30 2002 9 K Levitt Intrusion detection current capabilities and future directions in Proceedings 18'h Annual Computer Security Applications Conference 2002 pp 365 367 10 C Clifton G Gengo Developing custom intrusion detection filters using data mining in 21st Century Military Communications 514 IEEE International Conference on 


Conference Proceedings Vol.1 2000 pp 440 443 11 G Yu A Ghorbani N Belacel Y-means a clustering method for intrusion detection IEEE Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering Vol.2 2003 pp.1083 1086 12 S Mukkamala A Sung Artificial intelligent techniques for intrusion detection in IEEE International Conference on Systems Man and Cybernetics Vol 2 2003 pp 1266 1271 13 Hossain M Bridges S Vaughn R Adaptive intrusion detection with data mining IEEE International Conference on Systems Man and Cybernetics Vol 4 2003 pp 3097 3103 14 K Yoshida Entropy based intrusion detection in IEEE Pacifc Rim Conference on Communications Computers and signal Processing Vol 2 pp 840 843 2003 15 B Martin S Rossouw Utilising fizzy logic and trend analysis for effective intrusion detection Computers  Security Vol 22 No 5 pp 423-434 2003 16 H Eugene Z Diego Intrusion detection using autonomous agents Computer Networks Vol 34 pp 547-570 2000 17 A Seleznyov A Hybrid Model for Intrusion Detection Based on Temporal Probabilistic Networks in IFIP'00 Beijing China 20-25 August 2000 18 Y Qiao X Xin Y Bin S Ge Anomaly intrusion detection method based on H1MM Electronics Letters Vol 38 Issue 13 pp 663 664 2002 19 T Li J Ma Y Xu An improving mining algorithm aiming at a kind of specific function of degree of interest in Proceedings of the I International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics IEEE press 2002 pp 1214-1218 20 H Sang S Won An anomaly intrusion detection method by clustering normal user behavior Computers and Security Vol 22 No 7 pp 596-612 2003 21 D Yeung Y Ding Host-based intrusion detection using dynamic and static behavioral models Pattern Recognition Vol 36 pp 229-243 2003 22 W Chen S Hsu H Shen Application of SVM and ANN for intrusion detection Computers and Operations Research Vol 32 pp 2617-2634 2005 515 


Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Machine kaming and Cybemetics Shanghai 26-29 August 2004 m 02 0.25 0.3 0.35 0.4 M"a-0fS"f.F.m Figure 1 Rules Generated where  is for the new algorithm and XIS for Algorithm 2 4 Conclusions and Future work In this paper we give the definition of RFA rules and analyze some properties of them Then using the method of deleting RFA rules we presente a new algorithm to deal with the problems of generating fuzzy association rules f quantitative databases The experiments have shown that the algorithm proposed has good performances Our future work is focused on two points 1 Further research on RFA rules to reduce the computing time and applying the new algorithm to quantitative databases with fuzzy taxonomies 2 As there are many kinds of fuzzy implication operators the task of researching the differences among FlOs when used to defme the Dimp is to be done We will investigate and classify the Flus for improving the efficiency and correctness of measuring the significance of fuzzy association rules 2m p I5W P IRm 8 5W  0 0.2 0.25 0.3 0.35 0.4 Mini Dcgnxs of svppon Figure 2 Execution Time where  is for the new algorithm, and x-is for Algorithm 2 References I R Agrawal T Imielinske and A Swami Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases Roc 1993 ACM-SIGMOD Internat Conf Management of Data pp 207-206 Washington D.C 1993 R Agrawal and R Srikant Fast algorithms for mining association rules VLDB'94 Los Angeles 3 Wai-Ho Au and K.C.C Chan An effective algorithm for discovering fuzzy rules in relation databases Proc IEEE world congress on Computational intelligence, pp 1314-1319 1998 W Bandler and L J Kohout, Fuzzy power sets and fuzzy implication operators Fuzzy sets and Systems 4\(1 pp 13-30,1980 5 W Bandler and L J Kobout Semantics of implication operators and fuzzy relational products Internat J of Man-Machine Studies 12\(1 pp 89 1 16,1980 2  Mogan kaufmann 1994 4 1639 


Proceedings of the Third Intemational Conference on Machine Laming and Cybemetics Shanghai 26-29 August 2004 G Chen Q.Wei and E.E Kerre Fuzzy data mining Discovery of fuzzy generalized association rules G Bordogna and G. Pasi, \(eds Recent Issues on Fuzzy Databases. Springer-Verlag, 2000 G Chen P Yan and E Kerre Mining Fuzzy Implication-Based Association Rules in Quantitative Databases Proceedings of FLINS2002 Belgium 2002 M Delgado D Sanchez and M.A Vila. Acquisition of fuzzy association rules hm medical data S Barro and R Marin eds Fuzzy Logic in Medicine Physica Verlag, 2000 U Fayyad G Piatetsky-shapiro and P Smyth 223From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery An overview\224 Fayyad U Piatetsky-Shapiro G Smyth P and Uthu~samy R.\(eds Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Cambridge MA AAAI Press pp 1-30 1996 Gyenesei A fuzzy approach for mining quantitative association rules TUCS technical reports 336 University of Turku Department of Computer Science, Lemminkisenkatu 14 Finland 2000 E Hiillermeier and J Beringer Mining implication-based fuzzy association rules in datahases B Bouchon-Meunier L Foulloy and R.R Yager eds Intelligent Systems for Information Processing From Representation to Applications. Elsevier, 2003 12 E.E Kerre Introduction to the Basic Principles of Fuzzy Set Theory and Some of Its Application Communication  Cognition Gent Belgium 1991 13 G.J Klir and B Yuan Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic-Theory and Applications Prentice Hall New Jersey 1995 I41 C Man Kuok A Fu and M Hon Wong Mining fuzzy association rules in databases SIGMOD Record 27 pp.41-46 1998 U H Mannila H Toivonen, and I Verkamo, Efficient Algorithms for Discovering Association Rules Piatetsky-Shapim G and Frawley W J.\(eds Knowledge Discovery in Databases AAAI PressfIhe MIT Press MenIo Park Califomia 1991 I61 D Ruan and E.E Kerre Fuzzy implication operators and generalized fuzzy method of cases Fuzzy Sets and systems 54\(1 pp 23-38, 1993 I71 Savasere E Omiecinski and S Navathe An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Association Rules in Large Dtabses Proceedings of the 21st VLDB Conference, Zurich Swizerland pp 43243.1995 18 R Srikant and R Agrawal 223Mining Quantitative Association Rules in Large Relational Tables\224 Proc of 1996 ACM-SIGMOD Intemat Conference management of Data pp 1-12 Montreal Canada 1996  I91 http://www.epsilon.coml  http://www.ncc.up.pt 1640 


 7  s in all cases that the rule holds true. Rules with high support and confidence values are considered good rules  Confidence \(c  X Y X    Support \(s All Y X    There are several ways that we can employ the Association Rules technique into SOAs to assist in service discovery. In the next two paragraphs we will discuss two methods: the first one is to utilize user profiles and service access logs to find the rules, and the second is to examine the services within service workflow l ogs to find the co-occurrence pattern among data services, application services and userfacing services  As exhibited in Table 4, user profiles can be created based on user identity, specialized domains and interests. The following rules can be disclosed by studying the data: If a user is a terrorism analyst then entity extraction services and link & group analysis services are useful with 80% support and 100% confidence; If a user is a terrorism analyst and is interested in information about Al-Qaeda and Usama Bin Laden then data service 3 and 4 are good information sources with 40% support and 66% confidence  Table 5 showed six service workflows and revealed the following rules: If a link & group analysis service is used to analyze the data then a hyper bolic tree service is used to visualize the result with 33% support and 100% confidence If data service E is the data source then entity extraction service is used to work with the data with 33% support and 66% confidence  As illustrated above, what th is technique discovered is actually the association and relationship among services in SOA, which is not natively captured in the service registry The rules found can be used to advise proper services for users to leverage based on user profiles or on current selected services. For example, if a new user declares himself to be a terrorism analyst then entity extraction services and link & group analysis services can be recommended. Or when a user selects a link & group service, a hyperbolic tree service can be suggested to the user for visualization. He nce, the association rules technique helps to push individual services and even service workflows to the user  S ERVICE S EQUENTIAL A CCESS P ATTERNS   Sequential Patterns is an interesting data mining technique that has been used to discover customer purchase behavior web access patterns, and time related processes such as scientific experiments, natural disasters, and disease treatments. Its goal is to find inter-transaction patterns such that the presence of a set of items is followed by another item in the time-stamp ordered transaction set  In SOA, this technique can be used to discover users service access patterns in temporal order. For example among users who are working on terrorism information analysis, link & group analysis services are usually called within one hour after accessing an entity extractor service In some scenarios, the sequential patterns technique can also be used to determine which services in the same service categories are more effective. Table 6 demonstrates three analysis processes of differe nt analysts. In all three processes, we can see the r ecurring pattern: the combination of service 1, service 4, and se rvice 8 is always replaced by the combination of service 1, service 5, and service 8, which shows that service 5 probably has more advantage than service 4 when dealing with a specific topic, in this case Al-Qaeda, financial sources, even though both of them are relevant  Analysis Process Sequences start with RFI user 1  1. search service related to Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. search result: data service 1, 2, 3; application service 4, 5, 6, 7; user facing service 8, 9 3. construct service flow with service 1, 4, 8 4. view the result 5. modify the service flow to replace service 4 with service 5 and view the result 5. save service flow for the RFI start with existing service flow user 2 1. load existing service flow with services 1, 4, 8 saved for RFI about Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. modify the service flow to replace service 4 with service 5 and view the result 3. save the modification start with RFI user 3  1. search service related to Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. search result: data service 1, 2, 3; application service 4, 5, 6, 7; user facing service 8, 9 3. construct service flow with service 1, 5, 8 and view the result 4. modify the service flow to replace service 5 with service 4 and view the result 5. reverse back to service 1, 5, 8 and save service flow for the RFI  Table 6Sequential Pattern in Analysis Process 5  A PPLICATION OF S ERVICE R ATING  Service Rating technique allows service consumers to review and rate services based on a set of criterias.  The review and rating then serve as references for other service consumers to inquire. The set of criterias covers service performance, availability accuracy, validity and effectiveness  Before delving into service rating technique in detail, let us first take a step back and have a look at our everyday life When people are planning to purchase a product or a 


 8 service, reviews and ratings from other customers generally play a very important role in our decision  Whenever planning to go to a restaurant, reserve a hotel purchase a car, or buy a book, people will always want to check consumer guides and any customer reviews available even if they have already got enough information from the product vendor or service provider. You may also want to call your friends to see what they think if they happen to have any experience with the product or the service, and you take their opinions and suggestions very seriously  Amazon has implemented a product review and rating mechanism that enables cust omers to share information about products. In the A9 tool just cam e out i t st art s  to capture review and rating fo r virtual product-website too In SOA, service is also virtual product. The information in the service registry is provided by service provider however a service consumer may have a totally different view from what the provider claims.  This is where a feedback loop becomes increasingly important  By incorporating users feedback about services in the format of reviews and ratings into a SOA, service consumers have a 360-degree view of services. They have an opportunity to know more about service performance effectiveness and reliability before making a selection among relevant services, which they were not able to do via the data captured in a re gular service registry   Performance Effectiveness Service Review Service Rating Extended Service Registry Inquiry Reliability  Figure 6Service Review and Service Rating  Service rating provides an overall evaluation for a service while service review provides detailed evaluations in text format.  Reviews and ratings that come from the same user group are especially interesting, since they represent opinions from a community of users with the same interests and same requirements for servi ces. With the latest service reviews and ratings bearing heavier weight, service improvements can be reflected and taken into consideration  By employing service ratings, analysts will gain the ability to focus efforts on highly rated services that are more likely to provide better results. This will allow the process to be more efficient by reducing the number of ineffective and unproductive queries and analysis 6  E XTENDED S YSTEM A RCHITECTURE  In order to take advantage of the data mining technology and service rating techniques discussed in section 4 and section 5, we propose an extended SOA infrastructure to enable pattern and association discovery, service rating and review capturing, dynamic COI construction and inquiry of all the above information  As depicted in Figure 7, the service registry that usually holds service metadata provided by service vendor is extended to include service access patterns, service associations and recurring service flows. New data structures are created in the re gistry to hold these additional information. Based on the examples in section 4 classification of useful for te rrorism analysis can be added to service entries of Evidence Entity Link Discovery Service, Entity Extractor service and Link & Group Analysis service \(Table 1, 2\ in the registry. Clusters of services: service 1, 2, 3, 4; service 5; and service 6, 7, 8,9 10 \(Table 3 and entity extraction service and link & group analysis service and hyperbolic tree service \(Table 5 service flow of service 1, 5, 8 \(Table 6\l be captured in the registry. With the information available, when a user inquires about a service from the registry, he can not only get the service metadata, but also get the other services that always co-occur with the current service, similar services and service workflows that the current service often participates in  The service registry is also extended to store service rating and reviews. After interacting with the services, service consumers can rate the service or write review about their experience and publish it to the service registry. The feedbacks are then available while other users look up the services. In the Service Seque ntial Access Patterns example four application services are returned for a RFI about AlQaeda, Financial Sources within which service 5 may have the highest average rating in Effectiveness and Performance. With this information, a user will immediately know that service 5 is the probably the best candidate to pick  In addition to the service re gistry, a user registry is introduced into the architectur e. It captures basic user profile such as name, profession, and interested domains. In addition to that the user registry also serves as a group registry and captures user groups of same interest-COIs From the user clustering example in section 4, user clusters  


 9   Figure 7 Extended SOA Infrastructure w ith Pattern/Rating Services  of user A, C, G; user F; and user B, D, E, H can be stored in the group registry for inquiry. Different from most of the COIs we encounter today, the COIs here are dynamically constructed and updated by running clustering algorithm on users access log of the services. If a users interest in terrorism analysis changes from Al-Qaeda to Saddam Hussein, it will be reflected in the dynamic user groups  To support the new features of service registry and user registry, the interface of Regi stry Service in the Core Enterprise Services block is also extended to enable publishing and querying additional information  The service blocks tier is expanded to include another set of data mining and rating related services Patterns/Associations services offer the capability of service classification, service clusteri ng, service associations and sequential access patterns discove ry. Dynamic COI services cluster users in a dynamic fashion. Both of them interact with ESM to gain access to th e service access log and user it as the input for various data mining algorithms Rating/Review services provi de the interface to define rating criteria, and capture users reviews and ratings  Companies like Amazon and eBay have utilized similar sets of data mining and rating services to provide a high level of quality to their customers.  The increase in quality and information leads to an increas ed customer base, increased participation in the community, and ultimately to increased satisfaction.  The same paradigm can be applied to the Intelligence Community providing leverage to support the analytical and collaborative process  These new capabilities will enable a more intelligent system that will better support the analyst.  By leveraging standard advantages of a SOA, these new extension will offer additional advantages to the end user.  With a SOA analysts will have the ability to discover and bind to new services on the network dynamically.  With the new techniques behind data mining and service rating applied to the SOA, analysts will be able to make better determinations on what serv ices will best support their needs  Further, these services can support the next generation of systems built around agent technologies.  With the necessary infrastructure in pl ace, intelligent ag ents can be built to automate many of the service discovery and orchestration steps taken manually today.  This additional increase in automation will allow analysts to spend less time searching and more time analyzing 7  S UMMARY  By combining data mining technology and service rating techniques into a SOA-enabled problem solving space within the Intelligence Community, analysts are able to utilize expertise and knowledge from other analysts to quickly discover services in a meaningful way and compose services into workflows  With the assistance of service mining, service usage mining and service rating, analysts can navigate through services  Dynamic COI Patterns/Associations Service Profiling Intelligent Agents End-to-End Application End Users  Services Blocks Application Services Information Data Process Services BPEL User-Facing Services WSRP Extended Core Enterprise Services Security Messaging Extended Registry \(UDDI ESM Data Mining Services/Rating Services Dynamic COI Patterns/Associations Rating/Review Extended Registry Store Service Registry Patterns Associations Service Flows Service Rating/Review User Registry COIs 


 10 available on the network effi ciently and effectively by utilizing service access pattern, service associations dynamic COI and service reviews. These techniques will enable analysts to be successful even when confronted with the challenge of service overload as more services begin to populate the network R EFERENCES   Hom eland Security Efforts to Im prove Inform ation Sharing Need to Be Strengthened, GAO http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d03760.pdf  2 Secu rity Classificatio n  Un ited States In tellig en ce Community http://www.intelligence gov/2-character_classification.shtml  3 Un ited  States In tellig en ce Co m m u n ity Ho m e, Un ited  States Intelligence Community http://www.intelligence.gov   John St enbi t  M ovi ng Power t o t h e Edge http://www.chips.navy.mil/a rchives/03_su mmer/web%20pa ges/stenbit.htm   SOAP 1.2 http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part0   OASIS Uni v ersal Descri pt i on Di scovery  and Integration \(UDDI http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=uddi-spec   W e b Servi ces Descri pt i on Language \(W SDL http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl20   e b Service Orchestrati on-Business Process Execution Language \(BPEL http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=wsbpel   W e b Services for Rem o te Portlets W SRP http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=wsrp   e b Services Interope rability Organization \(WS-I http://www.ws-i.org   W 3 C Sem a nt i c W e b Servi ces Int e rest Group \(SW I G  http://www.w3.org/2002/ws/swsig    IB M  Soft ware Group. Servi ce Ori e nt ed Archi t ect ure and Web Services http://www-306.ibm.com/software/solutions/webservices   R e gi s C oqueret  IB M Soft ware Group, SOA and W e b Services  Foundation for an On Demand Operating Environment     M a noel  M e ndonca, Nancy L. Sunderhaft  M i n i ng Software Engineering Data A Survey- A DACS State-ofthe-Art Report   R  C ool ey B  M obasher, and J. Sri v ast a va, W eb Mining: Information and Pattern Discovery on the World Wide Web, 9th IEEE Intern ational Conference on Tools with Artificial In telligence \(ICTAI'1997   eb Mining: Accomplishments Future Directions http://www.cicomra.org.ar/eventosycursos/ECA2004/Prese ntaciones/Tutorials/Srivastava.pdf   Pattern Discovery Software Sy stem LTD. Data Mining And Discover*E-A whilte paper on PDS Data Mining Technology http://www.patterndiscovery.com/eng/tech/discovere_white paper.pdf   Bahzad, Mortazavi-AsI, Jianyong Wang, Helen Pinto, Qiming Chen, Mei-Chun Hsu, Mining Sequential Patterns by Pattern-Growth: The PrefixSpan Approach, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Oct. 2004   Dat a M i ni ng, Knowl e dge Di scovery Genom i c M i ni ng Web Mining http://www.kdnuggets.com    Eri c Yuan, Greg W e nzel Enabl i ng Tot a l Inform at i on Awareness With Grid Services, 2003 IEEE Aerospace Conference   B a s Jansen, Servi ce Profi l i ng i n B u si ness t o  B u si ness Web Services, http://www.basj ansen.com/serviceprofiling  22] Google Search Engi ne. http://www.google.com   Am azon Online Store, http://www,am azon.com   24 Am azo n A9 to o l b a r, h ttp to o l b a r.a9 co m  


 11 B IOGRAPHY  Ying Chen is a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton Inc. She has 5 years of professional experience in system design and development with J2EE and SOA technologies. She is now involved in a research and development project in support of United States Intelligence Community, designing and implementing Advanced Information Sharing and Collaboration solutions. She holds an MS degree in Computer Sc ience from Virginia Tech and BS degree in Computer Science from Fudan University in Shanghai, China  Brad Cohen is an Associate with Booz Allen Hamilton Inc He has 8 years of professional experience in developing and implementing enterprise-class systems for both commercial and government applications.  Currently he is serving as the technical manager on a research and development project in support of the United States Intelligence Community.  He holds an MBA and MS in Information Systems, and a BS in Decision and Information Scien ces from the University of Maryland, College Park   


Proceedings of the Ninth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 7 Conclusion and Future Work References frontier  pages 487\320499 Morgan Kaufmann 1994  W orkshop on frequent itemset mining implementations 2003 http://\336mi.cs.helsinki.\336/\336mi03  W orkshop on frequent itemset mining implementations 2004 http://\336mi.cs.helsinki.\336/\336mi04  J  Han J  Pei and Y  Y in Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation In Proceedings of 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases VLDB VLDB Journal Very Large Data Bases Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery An International Journal Lecture Notes in Computer Science  2004  J W ang and G Karypis Harmon y Ef 336ciently mining the best rules for classi\336cation In The Tenth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining KDD\32504 Symposium on Principles of Database Systems 2 b Average time taken per frequent itemset shown on two scales T10I4D100K is increased and hence the number of frequent items decreases Figure 5\(c also shows that the maximum frontier size is very small Finally we reiterate that we can avoid using the pre\336x tree and sequence map so the only space required are the itemvectors and the minSup SIAM International Conference on Data Mining required drops quite quickly as ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues in Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 2000 ACM SIGMOD Intl Conference on Management of Data Figure 5 Results  8\(3\3204 2000  F  P an G C ong A T ung J Y ang and M Zaki Carpenter Finding closed patterns in long biological datasets In  2121:236 2001  M Steinbach P N T an H Xiong and V  K umar  Generalizing the notion of support In a Runtime ratios T10I4D100K c Number of Itemvectors needed and maximum frontier size T10I4D100K  pages 1\32012 ACM Press May 2000  F  K orn A Labrinidis Y  K otidis and C F aloutsos Quanti\336able data mining using ratio rules  Morgan Kaufmann 2003  J Pei J Han and L Lakshmanan Pushing convertible constraints in frequent itemset mining We showed interesting consequences of viewing transaction data as itemvectors in transactionspace and developed a framework for operating on itemvectors This abstraction gives great 337exibility in the measures used and opens up the potential for useful transformations on the data Our future work will focus on 336nding useful geometric measures and transformations for itemset mining One problem is to 336nd a way to use SVD prior to mining for itemsets larger than  pages 205\320215 2005  We also presented GLIMIT a novel algorithm that uses our framework and signi\336cantly departs from existing algorithms GLIMIT mines itemsets in one pass without candidate generation in linear space and time linear in the number of interesting itemsets Experiments showed that it beats FP-Growth above small support thresholds Most importantly it allows the use of transformations on the data that were previously impossible  That is the space required is truly linear  D Achlioptas Database-friendly random projections In  2001  R Agra w al and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules In  8:227\320252 May 2004  J Pei J Han and R Mao CLOSET An ef 336cient algorithm for mining frequent closed itemsets In  pages 21\32030 2000  S Shekhar and Y  Huang Disco v ering spatial colocation patterns A summary of results 


mator from sensor 1 also shown 6. CONCLUSIONS This paper derives a Bayesian procedure for track association that can solve a large scale distributed tracking problem where many sensors track many targets. When noninformative prior of the target state is assumed, the single target test becomes a chi-square test and it can be extended to the multiple target case by solving a multidimensional assignment problem. With the noninformative prior assumption, the optimal track fusion algorithm can be a biased one where the regularized estimate has smaller mean square estimation error. A regularized track fusion algorithm was presented which modifies the optimal linear unbiased fusion rule by a less-than-unity scalar. Simulation results indicate the effectiveness of the proposed track association and fusion algorithm through a three-sensor two-target tracking scenario 7. REFERENCES 1] Y. Bar-Shalom and W. D. Blair \(editors Tracking: Applications and Advances, vol. III, Artech House, 2000 2] Y. Bar-Shalom and H. Chen  Multisensor Track-to-Track Association for Tracks with Dependent Errors  Proc. IEEE Conf. on Decision and Control, Atlantis, Bahamas, Dec. 2004 3] Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li, Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Principles and Techniques, YBS Publishing, 1995 4] Y. Bar-Shalom, X. R. Li and T. Kirubarajan, Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation: Algorithms and Software for Information Extraction, Wiley, 2001 5] S. Blackman, and R. Popoli  Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems  Artech House, 1999 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Time N o rm a li z e d e s ti m a ti o n e rr o r s q u a re d Target 1 Sensor 1 Centralized Est Track Fusion 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 0 2 


2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Time N o rm a li z e d e s ti m a ti o n e rr o r s q u a re d Target 2 Sensor 1 Centralized Est Track Fusion Fig. 7. Comparison of the NEES for centralized IMM estimator \(configuration \(i estimators \(configuration \(ii sensor 1 also shown 6] H. Chen, T. Kirubarajan, and Y. Bar-Shalom  Performance Limits of Track-to-Track Fusion vs. Centralized Estimation: Theory and Application  IEEE Trans. Aerospace and Electronic Systems 39\(2  400, April 2003 7] H. Chen, K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan and Y. Bar-Shalom  Data Association with Possibly Unresolved Measurements Using Linear Programming  Proc. 5th ONR/GTRI Workshop on Target Tracking Newport, RI, June 2002 8] Y. Eldar, and A. V. Oppenheim  Covariance Shaping Least-Square Estimation  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 51\(3 pp. 686-697 9] Y. Eldar  Minimum Variance in Biased Estimation: Bounds and Asymptotically Optimal Estimators  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 52\(7 10] Y. Eldar, A. Ben-Tal, and A. Nemirovski  Linear Minimax Regret Estimation of Deterministic Parameters with Bounded Data Uncertainties  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 52\(8 Aug. 2004 11] S. Kay  Conditional Model Order Estimation  IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 49\(9 12] X. R. Li, Y. Zhu, J. Wang, and C. Han  Optimal Linear Estimation Fusion  Part I: Unified Fusion Rules  IEEE Trans. Information Theory, 49\(9  2208, Sept. 2003 13] X. R. Li  Optimal Linear Estimation Fusion  Part VII: Dynamic Systems  in Proc. 2003 Int. Conf. Information Fusion, Cairns, Australia, pp. 455-462, July 2003 14] X. D. Lin, Y. Bar-Shalom and T. Kirubarajan  Multisensor Bias Estimation Using Local Tracks without A Priori Association  Proc SPIE Conf. Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets \(Vol 


SPIE Conf. Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets \(Vol 5204 15] R. Popp, K. R. Pattipati, and Y. Bar-Shalom  An M-best Multidimensional Data Association Algorithm for Multisensor Multitarget Tracking  IEEE Trans. Aerospace and Electronic Systems, 37\(1 pp. 22-39, January 2001 pre></body></html 


20 0  50  100  150  200  250  300 Pe rc en ta ge o f a dd iti on al tr af fic Cache size 200 clients using CMIP 200 clients using UIR c Figure 6. The percentage of additional traf?c the cache at every clock tick. A similar scheme has been proposed in [13], which uses fv, a function of the access rate of the data item only, to evaluate the value of each data item i that becomes available to the client on the channel If there exists a data item j in the client  s cache such that fv\(i j replaced with i A prefetch scheme based on the cache locality, called UIR scheme, was proposed in [7]. It assumes that a client has a large chance to access the invalidated cache items in the near future. It proposes to prefetch these data items if it is possible to increase the cache hit ratio. In [6], Cao improves the UIR scheme by reducing some unnecessary prefetches based on the prefetch access ratio \(PAR scheme, the client records how many times a cached data item has been accessed and prefetched, respectively. It then calculates the PAR, which is the number of prefetches divided by the number of accesses, for each data item. If the PAR is less than one, it means that the data item has been accessed a number of times and hence the prefetching is useful. The clients can mark data items as non-prefetching when PAR &gt; b, where b is a system tuning factor. The scheme proposes to change the value of b dynamically according to power consumption. This can make the prefetch scheme adaptable, but no clear methodology as to how and when b should be changed. Yin et al. [19] proposed a power-aware prefetch scheme, called value-based adaptive prefetch \(VAP the number of prefetches based on the current energy level to prolong the system running time. The VAP scheme de?nes a value function which can optimize the prefetch cost to achieve better performance These existing schemes have ignored the following characteristics of a mobile environment: \(1 query some data items frequently, \(2 during a period of time are related to each other, \(3 miss is not a isolated events; a cache miss is often followed by a series of cache misses, \(4 eral requests in one uplink request consumes little additional bandwidth but reduces the number of future uplink requests. In this paper, we addressed these issues using a cache-miss-initiated prefetch scheme, which is based on association rule mining technique. Association rule mining is a widely used technique in ?nding the relationships among data items. The problem of ?nding association rules among items is clearly de?ned by Agrawal et al. in [5]. However in the mobile environment, one cannot apply the existing association rule mining algorithm [4] directly because it is too complex and expensive to use This makes our algorithm different from that of [4] in 


This makes our algorithm different from that of [4] in twofold. First, we are interested in rules with only one data item in the antecedent and several data items in the consequent. Our motivation is to prefetch several data items which are highly related to the cache-miss data item within Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management \(MDM  04 0-7695-2070-7/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE the cache-miss initiated uplink request. We want to generate rules where the antecedent is one data item, but the cache-missed data item and the consequent is a series of data items, which are highly related to the antecedent. If we have such rules, we can easily ?nd the data items which should also be piggybacked in the uplink request. Second in mobile environment, the client  s computation and power resources are limited. Thus, the rule-mining process should not be too complex and resource expensive. It should not take a long time to mine the rules. It should not have high computation overhead. However, most of the association rule mining algorithms [4, 5] have high computation requirements to generate such rules 5. Conclusions Client-side prefetching technique can be used to improve system performance in mobile environments. However, prefetching also consumes a large amount of system resources such as computation power and energy. Thus, it is very important to only prefetch the right data. In this paper, we proposed a cache-miss-initiated prefetch \(CMIP scheme to help the mobile clients prefetch the right data The CMIP scheme relies on two prefetch sets: the alwaysprefetch set and the miss-prefetch set. Novel association rule based algorithms were proposed to construct these prefetch sets. When a cache miss happens, instead of sending an uplink request to only ask for the cache-missed data item, the client requests several items, which are within the miss-prefetch set, to reduce future cache misses. Detailed experimental results veri?ed that the CMIP scheme can greatly improve the system performance in terms of increased cache hit ratio, reduced uplink requests and negligible additional traf?c References 1] S. Acharya, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Prefetching From a Broadcast Disk. Proc. Int  l Conf. on Data Eng., pages 276  285, Feb. 1996 2] S. Acharya, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Balancing Push and Pull for Data Broadcast. Proc. ACM SIGMOD, pages 183  194, May 1997 3] S. Acharya, R. Alonso, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Broadcast disks: Data Management for Asymmetric Communication Environments. Proc. ACM SIGMOD, pages 199  210 May 1995 4] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In J. B. Bocca, M. Jarke, and C. Zaniolo editors, Proc. 20th Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases, VLDB pages 487  499. Morgan Kaufmann, 12  15 1994 5] R. Agrawal, Tomasz Imielinski, and Arun Swami. Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207  216, Washington, D.C May 1993 6] G. Cao. Proactive Power-Aware Cache Management for Mobile Computing Systems. IEEE Transactions on Computers, 51\(6  621, June 2002 7] G. Cao. A Scalable Low-Latency Cache Invalidation Strategy for Mobile Environments. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 15\(5 ber/October 2003 \(A preliminary version appeared in ACM MobiCom  00 8] K. Chinen and S. Yamaguchi. An Interactive Prefetching Proxy Server for Improvement of WWW Latency. In Proc INET 97, June 1997 9] E. Cohen and H. Kaplan. Prefetching the means for docu 


9] E. Cohen and H. Kaplan. Prefetching the means for document transfer: A new approach for reducing web latency. In Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM, pages 854  863, 2000 10] R. Cooley, B. Mobasher, and J. Srivastava. Data preparation for mining world wide web browsing patterns. Knowledge and Information Systems, 1\(1  32, 1999 11] C. R. Cunha, Azer Bestavros, and Mark E. Crovella. Characteristics of WWW Client Based Traces. Technical Report TR-95-010, Boston University, CS Dept, Boston, MA 02215, July 1995 12] D. Duchamp. Prefetching hyperlinks. In USENIX Symposium on Internet Technologies and Systems \(USITS  99 1999 13] V. Grassi. Prefetching Policies for Energy Saving and Latency Reduction in a Wireless Broadcast Data Delivery System. In ACM MSWIM 2000, Boston MA, 2000 14] S. Hameed and N. Vaidya. Ef?cient Algorithms for Scheduling Data Broadcast. ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks \(WINET  193, May 1999 15] Q. Hu and D. Lee. Cache Algorithms based on Adaptive Invalidation Reports for Mobile Environments. Cluster Computing, pages 39  48, Feb. 1998 16] Z. Jiang and L. Kleinrock. An Adaptive Network Prefetch Scheme. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 16\(3  11, April 1998 17] V. Padmanabhan and J. Mogul. Using Predictive Prefetching to Improve World Wide Web Latency. Computer Communication Review, pages 22  36, July 1996 18] N. Vaidya and S. Hameed. Scheduling Data Broadcast in Asymmetric Communication Environments. ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks \(WINET  182, May 1999 19] L. Yin, G. Cao, C. Das, and A. Ashraf. Power-Aware Prefetch in Mobile Environments. IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems \(ICDCS 2002 Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management \(MDM  04 0-7695-2070-7/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


um be r o f C he ck ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 6. The Number of Checked Patterns on the Pumsb Data Set 10 100 1000 10000 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 R un T im e s ec  Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 7. The RunTime Comparison on the Pumsb Data Set The runtime comparison of MHP and MAFIA on the Pumsb* data set is shown in Figure 5. In the ?gure, we can observe that the runtime of MHP can be signi?cantly reduced with the increase of h-con?dence thresholds. Also the runtime of MHP can be several orders of magnitude less than that of MAFIA even if the h-con?dence threshold is as low as 0.3. The reason is that the number of checked patterns of MHP is sign?cantly smaller than that of MAFIA Similar results are also obtained from the pumsb data set as shown in Figure 6 and Figure 7. For the pumsb data set the number of checked patterns of MHP is much smaller 


than that of MAFIA and the runtime of MHP can be significantly less than that of MAFIA 5.3. The Effect of the MHP Algorithm on Finding Maximal Hyperclique Patterns Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the number of maximal patterns identi?ed byMHP andMAFIA on Pumsb* and Pumsb data sets respectively. As can be seen, the number of maximal hyperclique patterns identi?ed by MHP can be orders of magnitude smaller than the number of maximal frequent patterns identi?ed by MAFIA. In other words, the number Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 1e+07 1e+08 1e+09 0.02 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 0.045 0.05 0.055 0.06 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0 Min_Conf=0.1 Min_Conf=0.3 Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 8. The Number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb* Data Set 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 


1e+07 1e+08 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 9. The number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb Data Set of maximal hyperclique patterns is much easier to manage than that of maximal frequent patterns. Indeed, in realworld applications, it is dif?cult to interpret several million maximal frequent patterns. However, it is possible to interpret the results of maximal hyperclique pattern mining In addition, due to the memory limitation, we cannot extract maximal frequent patterns with MAFIA on the Pumsb data set if the support threshold is less than 0.4, as shown in Figure 7. In contrast, MHP can identify maximal hyperclique patterns when the support threshold is 0.1, if we set the h-con?dence threshold to 0.5. In other words, MHP has the ability to identify patterns which can be dif?cult to identify for MAFIA. Hence, MHP can better explore the pattern space and ?nd interesting patterns at low levels of support 6. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we present a two-phase Maximal Hyperclique Pattern \(MHP best features of both the BFS strategy and the DFS strategy. More speci?cally, we adapted DFS pruning methods such as equivalence pruning, to an apriori-like approach In addition, we proved the correctness and completeness of the MHP algorithm. Finally, our experimental results show that the MHP algorithm can be several orders of magnitude faster than standard maximal frequent pattern mining algorithms and has the ability to identify patterns at extremely low levels of support in dense data sets There are several directions for future work. First, in 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





