Establishment of Real Estate Appraise and Agence Industrial Information Management System  Zhu Qing School of Software Engineer Beijing University of Technology Beijing, China ccgszq@bjut.edu.cn Meng Yao School of Software Engineer Beijing University of Technology Beijing, China mengyaobj@gmail.com  Wu Ming China Institute of Real Estate Appraisers and Agents Beijing, China wm753@263.net   Abstract  As the unique professional organization of national real estate, China Institute of Real Es 
tate Appraisers and Agents \(CIREA make an important role in the improvement of profession actions and the regulation of enterprises and practitioners. With the rapid development of these two businesses, there are an increasing number enterprises coming up, and the amount of related practitioners is also growing. In another word, the more complex situation, that CIREA has to deal with, is a big challenge. The accumulation of massive information, from not only the ente rprises but also the related stuff demands for an effective and sufficient information management system to be established Keywords Real Estate Appraisers;Real Estate Agents; Business Digitalization; Information Management System 
I  P REFACE  A  China Institute of Real Estate Appraisers and Agents China Institute of Real Estate Appraisers and Agents that registered by Ministry of Civil Affairs of the Peoples Republic of China, are established in 1994, are subordinated to Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development of the Peoples Republic of China. This institute, which is always called CIREA, is self-discipline in the profession of real estate appraisal and agency The routine and regulation work in CIREA mainly includes that 000z  Real estate appraisers and agents qualifying 
examination 000z  Registration of qualified appraisers and agents 000z  Audit the supporting document for the qualifying level of Real Estate Enterprises 000z  Establish the National Credit Document 000z  Organize the continuing training for appraisers and agents future education As the unique professional organization of national real estate, CIREA makes an important role in the improvement of profession actions and the regulation of enterprises and practitioners. With the rapid development of these two 
businesses, there are an increasing number enterprises coming up, and the amount of related practitioners is also growing. In another word, the more complex situation, that CIREA has to deal with, is a big challenge. The accumulation of massive information, from not only the enterprises but also the related people, demands for an effective and sufficient management system to be established B  Real Estate Appraisers and Agents Qualifying Examination National Real Estate Appraisers Qualifying Examination which is one of the earliest qualifying examinations, starts from 1995, and has been already held 14 times successfully. After a 
few years, National Real Estate Agents Qualifying Examination begins to run from 2002, and also has been hosted 8 times without a mistake. To sum up, there are more than five hundred thousand people attending the two kinds of exams, and among of them, seventy thousand get the pass C  Registration and Audit Qualification The registration of real estate appraisers and the audit qualification of real estate enterprises take an important position in field of real estate. And the audit qualification routine even gets the permission to be integrated into General Office of the State Council of the Peoples Republic of China 
In this field, the registration for appraisers has a necessary connection with the level of appraise enterprises, and the qualification for enterprises also deeply influent the appraisers so they are linked and survived by each other. Also, time restriction is demanded. From what has been discussed above the conclusion can be drawn that information management system is highly required, and it is impossible to deal with the complex routine work with a huge number of wild data everyday without it  II  A IM AND C ONTENT OF I NDUSTRIAL I 
NFORMATION S YSTEM  A  Aim of Industrial Information System Based on the regulation of registered appraisers and enterprises, CIREA has already begun to computerize and systematize the historical files. With the advanced operation system and web technology, the industrial information system includes the basic data from all the related enterprises appraisers, agents, annual examinations, registration log, future education per year and so on. This huge information system not 
2010 International Conference on E-Business and E-Government 978-0-7695-3997-3/10 $26.00  2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICEE.2010.129 480 


only can integrate all data into one database, but also share the documents. The aftermath of the integrated data is autoanalysis and auto-statistics for different levels of work staff and related results can effectively help the administrators to make quick decisions and be taken as a convincing preference As a result of the integration, a large number of information can be public through the web, and the people who have the need to inquire can research and also supervise the appraisers agents and enterprises B  Content of Industrial Information System Real Estate Appraise and Agency Information System, with the core of management system, can be divided into seven subsystems 000z  Top Management System 000z  Real Estate Appraises Registration System 000z  Real Estate Appraises Credit System 000z  Real Estate Agents Registration System 000z  Real Estate Agents Credit System 000z  Real Estate Enterprise Qualifying System 000z  Qualifying Examination System 000z  Based-Internet Future Education System TABLE I  S YSTEM F RAMEWORK  Real Estate Appraise and Agency Information System Access Control Appraises Registration System Initiate, Alter, Continue Enterprise Qualifying System Initiate Appraises Credit System Management Agents Registration System Initiate, Alter, Continue Agents Credit System Management Examination System Subject, Grade Future Education System Appraises and Agents both Option Maintain, Service, Type Admin, Access, Guideline Data Transfer Platform  Due to that the seven sub-systems run on their own database, they also share important data from the integrated database. Although their using-fields are quite different and independent, they have linked data-circle and stop the repeating inputs from labor. Efficiency and using rate of information get highly improved III   I NFORMATION M ANAGEMENT S YSTEM F RAMEWORK  Industrial Information Management System is divided into four operation patterns \(Chart1\. In this way, users are convenient to operate, and the information could be easier to be collected. At the same time, the accuracy of information is highly protected in a high level, thus different departments share the standard and unique data automatically. Based on this pattern, the circle of process is diminished, while the difficulty and frequency to protect the sync data is much less than usual It can be easily drew the conclusion that the efficiency is highly improved TABLE II  I NDUSTRIAL I NFORMATION M ANAGEMENT S YSTEM O RGANIZED F RAMEWORK  Users Actions Appliers Register on the website Province Audit the information and summary; Supervise the qualification of the appliers; Administrate the statue Ministry Final Audit the qualification; Get resul t s of statistics CIRE A Administrate all the information and publish Publish the National Appraisers/Agents/Enterprises on the web  A  Function of Appliers Management Not only the registration of qualification of Real Estate Appraisers, but also the related Enterprises can be finished through the online system. When registered online, the existed information is consulted by the new users, so that the news could change the different blanks and identify essential part and the process could have done. Based on the friendly experience, the people, who are not skillful at computers and typing, can also can register by themselves. Because of this, the information in the database becomes more accurate and easily identified. At the same time, the users, including the appraisers and enterprises, have the access to inquiry the status of the registration and qualification at any time they want through the system, and this progress not only convenient the users, but also the administrators B  Function of Province Management The qualifying system for real estate appraisers and enterprises have the related function module for province management, so that the province administrators can immediately cancel the unqualified one, that they are not approved, before the ministry audits the application, and also get the new-update information as soon as they need. Besides the audit, there are much more function for the province Function of Audit mainly includes that 000z  Registration, Qualification and Upload all the information 000z  Supervise the related enterprise with the regulation and the law 000z  Maintain the local data, check, inquiry, even export Based on these functions, every province has no need to develop their own information management system, and because of the unified platform, the national data is easy to regulate and update. As a result, the efficiency is highly improved, while the time for the specific work sharply decreases C  Function of Ministry Management As the industrial administration department, Ministry of Construction of the People's Republic of China is in charge of this field, so the information management system has its own 
481 


version and function, which is familiar as the province system such as audit, supervise, check and inquiry and so on D  Function of Industrial Organization The administration of this field has a great responsibility to establish the standard, the database and maintain the process Despite that the information management system need to be updated regularly, synced data flawless, backed up at a certain frequency, also, with the development of the network security and new technology, new modules with highly-tech function has to be designed at the same time. Only in this way, the security and complete of the growing database could be guarded It has to be admitted that, the industrial organization has more responsibility than the province department, not only concentrate on the system design, but also is in charge of the data's standard, which includes the following 000z  Management, Update, Audit and Import to database 000z  Roll in the statue of future education 000z  Publish the result of examination and regulation on time 000z  Modify the flaw information 000z  Manage the information of expert 000z  Access control 000z  Statistic and summary 000z  Backup per day and offsite E  Function of  our society The two websites, "China Real Estate Appraiser 9 http://www.ccret.org.cn\ and "China Real Estate Agents http://www.agents.org.cn 9 are belonging to CIREA, each citizen can search the information about the appraisers, agents and related enterprises on it. In this way, if a citizen needs to hire a appraiser to evaluate his house's market price, he can first get on the website to check that whether the appraiser has the certificate and how is the rank the enterprise. All the information can help citizens to make a better choice, of course, a security. The characteristic that has to be mentioned is that the database people can search is exactly sync with the database in the industrial information management system Therefore, at the maximum, the accuracy and real-time of data is compulsory IV  C HARACTERISTICS OF I NDUSTRIAL I NFORMATION M ANAGEMENT S YSTEM  A  Based on the regulation Based on the regulation published by Ministry of Construction, the industrial information management system promotes the laws while publishes the system to the society all the time. When people log in the station, the related module presents the basic reason for the better understanding, including the society groups who search, and also the appraisers and administrators. Meanwhile, some parts that can be controlled by the program is designed into the system, and there is no way to be changed by people As an illustration, we may take this example: A real estate appraiser has to apply for continue certificate most three months  before the validation expires, that is to say that,  before that date, your application will not be accepted by the website Like if the validation of Appraiser Wang expires on Dec 1st 2009, he only could apply for the continuous certificate after Sep 1st 2009, and before the date, when he log in the system there will be no option for continuous operation. With this process by program, there will be no way to change the process, and efficiency avoids this kind of situation B  Plan as a whole, Take it step by step Because of the routine work in CIREA is in a huge number and complex, the aim of the design of Industrial Information Management System is "Plan as a whole, take it step by step at the initial. Begin from the routine work of CIREA, now the module has already enlarged with the functions of province and individual From 2004, the plan of the industrial information management system begins to take a step. And in 2005, the beta version of management system, which includes the basic function, got online. And until 2007, the Registration System for Appraisers and Agents, the Qualification for Enterprises the Credit Document System, the Examination System and so on, has almost all finished the main function and put into use Encouragingly, the serial of system gained widely accepted. In 2008, the future education system is also designed successfully and put online C  Regulate by levels, Clarify the responsibility Require by Ministry of Construction, Province department has responsible to initially check the qualification of the appraisers and enterprises, then upload the information to Ministry for final qualification. The aftermath of this process demands for the accurate access control and allocate the privilege.  In this mode, the flexible system has the function to give one department some rights, and give different departments one same privilege. Allocate clearly, and take certain responsibility D  Unified platform, Avoid the isolated island As the integrated platform is formed by one main-system and 7 sub-system, the database is shared and there would not be generated an isolated island. It has to be mentioned that some sub-systems have relatively independency, and they don't change the data directly, but in the early development, the designers have already considered about this problem and draw a solution to fix it, which is to make a data interface for synchronization. In this way, administrators can import the information directly to the database of industrial information management system Take a case for example, every year there is an increasing number of people sign up the appraisers qualifying examination, but it is impossible that all of them pass the exam so it has to be considered that if all the sign-up information is saved into the database, it become a kind of waste, and there will be some useless information in the database. To solve this problem, there is a way that only the information of people that successfully pass the examination will be imported into the database 
482 


In the other hand, the information in a same database that a individual signs up, is initially checked by province department, and then is finally qualified by Ministry. In this way, the data could be unified all the time and unique E  Convenient in use, Publish in time The two websites, as we mentioned before, are two specific field stations, also the open window of CIREA. In these two sites, there are a few parts connected with the national database, and provide check and search to the society all the time with the most updated information A good case in point is that about the registration of real estate registration. After the certificate is qualified by Ministry of Construction, the administrator in CIREA changes the status of the people in the database, and at the same time, the information provided by the station is also altered F  Offsite Backup, Double make sure the security The security of industrial information management system is more important than any other data, because it is unified and no one will deny that, unique. Once the data lost or is changed by hackers on the WEB, the result will be disastrous. To make sure the security of database, CIREA backups the information everyday, and at the same time, the offsite backup is also taken into measures, just to secure the data without any accident As far as today, the industrial information management system went through some interference of virus and attacks by hacker, but based on the steadily routine work, nothing lost G  Statistic at dawn, Improve efficiency There is an increasing number of data in the industrial information management system, and also the frequency of inquiries is huge. To improve the speed of the inquiry, CIREA take a measure that only summarize and statistic the data at dawn, the index that builds in the morning then largely speeds the inquiry up. Then in the daytime, the only job that system needs to do is present the result and manifest H  Mobile-office, Show the beauty of time After the establishment of the industrial information management system, a lot of work could be done through the internet anywhere, anytime. Even the administrators is going abroad, as long as there is a network connection of broad band the routine work is easily finished. Registration online, Audit online, Qualification online. It is convenient for everyone I  Summery With the development of the computer science technology based on the internet and information management system Office Automation has achieved a highly standard. As an administrator in the industrial, a staff in a management department, not only we need to concentrate on our routine work, but also have to see the industry in the light of its development. Take computer science technology into the growing of this industry, and apply for the business field more specifically. China Institution of Real Estate Appraisers and Agents \(CIREA\, as the management in this specific field, have a great advantage and irresistible responsibility V  T HE F UTURE OF R EAL E STATE A PPRAISE AND A GENTS I NDUSTRIAL I NFORMATION S YSTEM  After the present situation has been checked, the conclusion is easily summarized that, it has to be admitted that the digital level of this real estate appraisers and agents is successful until now, the users and administrators all are convenient to register and audit. But with no doubt that, it cant be perfect, and there must be something that the industry could improve   With a increasing number of appraisers and agents especially agents that just starts, the size of database server is highly demanded, and the related modules have to be designed in time before the system reaches the choke point   It is widely required that the frequency of examination needs to be updated. Actually, in Hong Kong, the examinations in this field is at least twice a year compared to mainland, there is only one time in a year So when the frequency updates, whether the industrial information system can be used as convenient as now The aftermath is that the system is required to be designed as much as flexible, no matter how many times the examinations will be held   About the credit system. When the society gets the appraisers and agents information through the website whether the work experience should be printed on the page, and if there is a big mistake happened to the employee, how much that the society could find out Sure it wont help the employee, but the society couldnt totally understand the credit only from an easily level There are only some points that CIREA may consider about And at the same, surely, that the society is thankful for the great effort that CIREA makes. The standard of the real estate industrial information system also makes a good example for other fields. The mix of the management and administration is easy for everyone R EFERENCES   1  Ye Zhixuan, The development process and trend research of industry in Hangzhou, China Construction Informaion, vol14, 2009 2  Xu Yu, Xu Mingming, Yuanqinjian, The statue and improvement of Service-Type government website in China, Electronic Government vol7, 2009 3  Wang Fang, Lai Maosheng, The statue and improvement of electronic government in China, Electronic Government, vol8,2009  
483 


functions in a non-traditional implementation. The propagator, state estimator, and best attitude components process all available data within the system and provide the best solution as an output. The targeting error component determines the difference between the vehicle actual state and the desired state. The sensor and actuator helper apps translate data from the supplier format to the PnP required atomic data level elements.  The vehicle services, external to the ADCS FSW, provide the specific vehicle configuration and mass properties, and the sensor and actuator helper apps are needed to facilitate core algorithms that have been completely abstracted from the specific sensor/actuator suite Via the ADCS Subsystem Controller, the PnPSat ADCS FSW can be moded into 4 basic modes: de-tumble where the rates are nulled but a specific attitude is not sought, Sun point where the vehicle attitude is optimized to point the solar arrayto the sun, lawn-dart or nadir point mode where when the vehicle is below 350 km, the solar array is aligned with Local Vertical Local Horizontal \(LVLH atmospheric torque yet still get a fair amount of sunlight, a communications \(comm the communications antenna\(s finally, a ground track mode where a specific location on the vehicle is pointed toward a desired latitude and longitude on the Earth   Figure 5.  PnP GNC Flight Software \(FSW 6  4. GROUND TEST RESULTS FOR NOMINAL PNP ADCS FSW For testing of the PnPSat FSW, a simulation has been created to support both FSWIL and hardware-in-the-loop HWIL mode on the ASIMs to provide dynamic data through the actual hardware elements as testing progresses. The test results shown here have been generated during FSWIL testing. A basic scenario, starting with deployment and progressing through sun point has been executed to assure that the ADCS performance is acceptable.  Specifically, as shown in Figure 6, the scenario progresses from before separation from the launch vehicle, to deployment, detumble, solar arrays deployed, Sun point, lawn-dart/nadir point, and return to Sun point.  Notice that in each figure the axis associated with the spacecraft are color coded.  These color codings will match with the axis displayed in the plots of the control results  Figure 6.  Pictorial of Flight Scenario for FSWIL Testing of ADCS Functionality 7 Figure 7 shows the first 400 seconds of the FSWIL simulation run that covers several of the ADCS modes This figure illustrates the various navigation modes achieved by the ADCS FSW as well as the notion of  data quality  which is based on the type of data that is available at any given time. Based on the sensors that are operational different types of data are available, leading to the use of varying ADCS FSW approaches to estimating the calculated state, which includes Sun LOS, angular rate attitude, position and velocity. The navigation modes are, in sequence of execution: Standby, Detumble, Sun Point and Nadir Point Position and velocity are computed at 5 Hz by a PVPropagator FSW application. PVPropagator initializes with a pre-launch best  guesstimate  and adjusts once the GPS data starts flowing. In this scenario, the GPS data starts flowing at about 80 seconds into the simulation run.  The Sun LOS is computed from the coarse Sun sensor signals However, due to the vehicle configuration, there is a nontrivial amount of blockage of the Sun by the solar arrays and by the spacecraft itself. When blockage occurs, the Sun 


and by the spacecraft itself. When blockage occurs, the Sun LOS is propagated with angular rate information, using a previous  best estimate  Such is the case from about 90 to 110 seconds on the simulation timeline.  The angular rate and the attitude have variable data quality according to the method that was used to compute the estimate.  Eventually attitude information may come from the star camera, but currently comes from an application that computes it from the Sun LOS and the Earth magnetic field, both measured and modeled on-board. The angular rate information can come from the IRU or from differentiating the attitude estimate.  If both are available, the latter is used to remove the bias from the IRU data \(which is quite large example shown in Figure 7, IRU data, without bias removal was used for angular rate estimate during the time of Sun sensor blockage Figures 8 and 9 present the difference between the FSWIL  truth  and the ADCS FSW estimates for position and velocity, respectively. The position and velocity differences are shown in Earth Centered Inertial \(ECI of date \(TOD and meters per second for the velocity.  The figure shows the position and velocity. The ADCS FSW position and velocity estimates are based on incremental GPS outputs provided by the FSWIL simulation, with errors typical of GPS being added to the output. The attitude and attitude rate errors, determined by differencing the simulation  truth  with the ADCS FSW estimate, based on magnetometer and Sun data, are shown in Figures 10 and 11 respectively.  Figure 12 and 13 show the errors in attitude and attitude rate as calculated by the FSW as part of the navigation error software that supplies information to the control law software. Within the FSWIL simulation, delays and latency associated with the PnP infrastructure and overhead have been simulated. For both position/velocity and attitude/ attitude rate the errors are largest during the de-tumble mode, when the objective of the FSW is to dampen the rates rather than achieve a specific attitude Additionally, errors occur when data availability varies or operational mode changes.  These plots demonstrate that the PnP paradigm does not degrade the ability of the FSW to estimate position and velocity In the Sun point mode, the objective of the FSW is to align the solar array normal with the Sun line of sight \(LOS Figure 14 illustrates the performance of the Sun point mode as the solar array normal and the Sun LOS are compared The difference is shown in degrees per second Additionally, Figure 15 shows the performance of the lawndart mode, by comparing the nadir axis of the spacecraft, in body coordinates, with the nadir vector in the body coordinate frame 5. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE ENHANCEMENTS TO PNP ADCS FSW The test results illustrate that the PnP philosophy can be incorporated into the traditionally hard real-time arena of ADCS FSW. Some moderate enhancements are planned for the near term to increase reliability and performance of the ADCS software. These include graceful degradation of the system operations as one or more actuator fails or is unavailable, and the implementation of an Extended Kalman Filter \(EKF attitude and the gyro biases, based on the best data available to the system at any given time.  However, for the time being, the PnPSat is fully operational in terms of fundamental ADCS modes, based on a first release of the PnP ADCS FSW provided by the Microcosm team Transitioning from  good-enough  to high-performance in the context of low-cost, responsive missions will necessitate other enhancements, outside of the FSW itself. The enhancements might include the auto-generation of highfidelity simulations and filters/estimators. This is currently much of the work \(and cost 


much of the work \(and cost spacecraft GN&amp;C development. It may, in time, transition the bulk of the development effort for most missions responsive or not, from getting the simulations right to more value-added design activities. For some missions development and deployment from Matlab  or other similar environments would become feasible. Also, with the development of high fidelity simulations that meet the PnP standards, simulation may be included as an intrinsic part of the on-board FSW. If simulation support was inherently provided as part of the ADCS FSW, advanced PnP capabilities such as adaptive onboard filter generation typically requiring a high-fidelity model of the system dynamics, could be readily achieved. Finally, by including simulations within the FSW high fidelity propagation and predictions can be created for planning functions Additionally implications of having simulations within the FSW are the ability to execute environmental models simultaneous with actually experiencing the effect being modeled, and thus validated and/or modified if necessary 8   Figure 7.  Navigation Modes and Data Quality. The Data Shown in Blue is an Angular Rate  Estimate    Figure 8.  Vehicle ECI \(TOD  Updates 9   Figure 9.  Vehicle ECI \(TOD  Updates    Figure 10.  Vehicle Angular Rate, Simulation  Truth  versus an Estimate by the Best_Angular_Rate FSW Application 10  Figure 11.  Vehicle Attitude, Simulation  Truth  versus an Estimate by the Attitude_From_Mag_Sun FSW Application    Figure 12.  Attitude Error Signal, Computed by the Navigation Error Application and Used in the Control Law to Generate Control Acceleration Requests  11  Figure 13.  Angular Rate Error Signal, Computed by the Navigation Error Application and Used in the Control Law to Generate Control Acceleration Requests     Figure 14.  Plot of Vector dV = sunLOS  y-axis.  Y-axis = Solar Array Normal  12  Figure 15.  Plot of vector dV = Nadir  y-axis while in Lawndart / Nadir Point Mode 6. REFERENCES 1] Lyke, J., Cannon, S., Fronterhouse, D., Lanza, D., and Byers, T  A Plug-and-play System for Spacecraft Components Based on USB Standard  Proceedings of the 19th Annual AIAA/USU Conference on Small Satellites, Logan, UT, August 8  11, 2005 


Satellites, Logan, UT, August 8  11, 2005 2]. Lyke, J  Space-Plug-and-Play Avionics \(SPA Year Progress Report  Proceedings of the AIAA Infotech Conference, May 7  9, 2007, Rohnert, CA 3]. Hansen, L. J., Pollack, J.,Graven, P., Plam, Y  Plug-andPlay for Creating Instant GNC Solutions  Proceedings of the 21st AIAA/USU Conference of Small Satellites Logan, UT, August 13  16, 2007 4] Graven, P., Van Allen, R., Hansen, L. J., Pollack, J  Achieving Responsive Space: The Viability of Plugand-Play in Spacecraft Development  Proceedings of the 29th AAS Guidance &amp; Control Conference Breckenridge, CO, Feb. 4  8, 2006 5] Standards Development Guidebook for Space Plug &amp Play Avionics, Draft Ver. 1.1.1_20080715 DLL published by AIAA G-125-200X 6] Graven, P. and Hansen, L. J. A Guidance Navigation and Control \(GN&amp;C Responsive Space. Presented at the AIAA Infotech@Aerospace 2007 Conference and Exhibit, May 7  10, 2007, Rohnert Park, CA 7] Hansen, L. J., Graven, P., Fogel, D., Lyke, J  The Feasibility of Applying Plug-and-Play Concepts to Spacecraft GN&amp;C Systems to Meet the Challenges of Future Responsive Missions  Proceedings of ESA GN&amp;C Conference, Tralee, Ireland, June 2  5, 2008 7. BIOGRAPHY Paul H. Graven is the Director of Technology Development at Microcosm, in Hawthorne CA. Prior to joining Microcosm he spent 5 years as a management consultant developing growth strategies for early stage technology companies He received his MS in Aeronautics &amp; Astronautics from Stanford University, and his BS in Engineering &amp; Applied Science, and Economics from the California Institute of Technology.  He also received a Master  s in Public Policy from Harvard University  s John F. Kennedy School of Government  focusing on science and technology policy and national security policy He has authored or coauthored many spacecraft guidance navigation and control \(GN&amp;C currently the Principal Investigator for one NASA and two Air Force GN&amp;C focused programs He is a member of AAAS, AAS, AGU, AIAA, IEEE, ION SCEA, and SPIE 13 Yegor Plam received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Colorado, Boulder, in 2002 and 2004 respectively He is currently a Systems Engineer in the Space Systems Division of Microcosm, Inc. His expertise is in orbital mechanics, control systems and computer simulations. Mr. Plam has acquired over ten years of software engineering experience from GTE Data Services, Utility Partners, MCI, and the Orbital Control Systems Lab and the Space Grant Consortium at the University of Colorado. Mr. Plam has mission operations experience from the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics in Boulder, Colorado Ksenia Kolcio has a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Toronto and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Cincinnati Dr. Kolcio joined Microcosm in the fall of 2005 and is a Senior GN&amp;C Engineer at Microcosm. Her duties include analysis tasks as 


Engineer at Microcosm. Her duties include analysis tasks as well as hardware and software development. She is responsible for developing satellite attitude control system designs and carrying out performance assessments, using a variety of control and stabilization approaches, including hardware such as momentum wheels and magnetic torquers Dr. Kolcio was recently the program manager on Microcosm  s Phase II SBIR with MDA for development of the Precision Navigation with Integrated Attitude Determination \(PNIAD GPS receiver, and star sensor in one compact sensor. The MicroMak  star sensor is an integral component of PNIAD At Northrop Grumman Space Technology \(NGST Kolcio was the lead engineer for autonomy and fault management for STSS and SST AT. In this capacity, she was responsible for autonomy and FM architecture, requirements flow down, and traceability. She managed the FM working group as well. Prior to this, she was a testbed engineer for NGST  s Integrated Avionics Demo. For this program, she managed the demo hardware and software working group She built an  all-up simulator  tool for demo test case design She also developed a test plan and procedure for Phase I architecture demo L. Jane Hansen has nearly 30 years of experience in the aerospace industry  providing engineering and management support for avionics systems on board aircraft, spacecraft rockets, launch vehicles, and ballistic missiles. Ms Hansen has a BS in Applied Mathematics from California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo and an MBA from Pepperdine University Currently, Ms. Hansen is President of HRP Systems, a woman-owned, small aerospace company established in 1991 and located in Southern California. Over the years, Ms Hansen has supported large aerospace prime contractors such as Northrop Grumman Integrated Systems, Northrop Grumman Space Technologies \(formerly TRW Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL such as Rocketdyne, Ruggedized Digital, and DEC, as well as supporting smaller aerospace companies such as Microcosm RSI, and Eidetics. She has acted as primary systems engineer with responsibility for requirements, design, test, and interface control documentation, in support of various avionics, software, and simulation development efforts Additionally, Ms. Hansen led the avionics development effort for a commercial unmanned aerial vehicle \(UAV a business plan to acquire commercial funding for such a venture. Ms. Hansen is Associate Fellow in the AIAA   pre></body></html 


 Analysis of activated sludge process using multivariate statistical tools- a PCA approach   Chemical Engineering Journal, 90, pp.283-290 2002 16]. L. H. Chiang, E.L. Russell, R.D. Braatz, Fault detection and diagnosis in industrial systems Springer, USA, 2001 17]. Y. H. Cheng, Y.L. Lin, C. C. Liu  Levels of PM10 and PM2.5 in Taipei rapid transit system   Atmospheric Environment, 42, pp.7242-7249 2008 pre></body></html 


  Picture 6 PCS layout with virtual infrastructure and SAN  The second very important step was the installation and commissioning of a Storage Area Network SAN\, because only a network storage enables to make use of virtualization infrastructure features such as failover. This is due to the fact that virtual machine disk files may not exist on a certain host, as in case of failure it would not be accessible and available any longer to be restarted on a different physical host  SANs are either based on Fibre Channel or iSCSI Technology. The idea of both technologies is to extend the \(usually\nal data lines between hard disk controllers and hard-disks to external devices Fibre Channel has been a proven technology for this type application for years. It has a slightly better performance, but is more expensive than iSCSI iSCSI stands for Internet Small Computer System Interface It  means encapsulation  of the SCSI protocol within TCP/IP packages. Today iSCSI delivers sufficient performance to build up SANs for process automation purposes at a cement works  In such an arrangement, from a failure point of view, the SAN is the most critical peace of hardware in virtualized computer architecture  Although SANs are built up internally fail safe \(redundant power supply, NICs, hard disk controllers,\205 and data sheets give impressive figures for availability, any concept for process control purposes should allow for setting up auto-synchronizing SANs at different spots  User interface VMs running on a host are comparable to applications running on a Terminal Server. In other words, VMs obviously need input and output devices to be handled. Fat clients \(PC\222s\o good choice if it is intended to simplify the maintenance of the process control system hardware. Moreover, they are costly and sometimes prone to error Another step forward -with limited risk only- was to replace some operator stations of a segment by Thin Clients without hard disk The connection between thin client and VM is either done by vendor specific client software, RDP or VNC  Obstacles Minor issues may occur while transferring physical control systems into virtual ones Most of the problems the reference plant encountered had to do with the hardware interfaces such as serial and parallel ports and multi-media features  


Unresolved points \(minor\are to date realizing failover with legacy interfaces and sound output with Windows NT guests   CONCLUSION  Virtualization is no new but a revitalized technol ogy. First virtualization solutions \(purely based on software\ell as computer emulation deliver poor results in terms of performance  Hardware supported virtualization and pure software virtualization are totally different approaches  Virtualization today is most powerful when it combines the strengths of the different technologies. CPU demanding applications are wasting less performance than memory-intense application. \(TLB miss costs  VMware ESX is a good example of this. ESX uses Para-virtualized drivers for the most critical I/O components \(but not for the CPU\, emulation for the le ss important I/O and Binary Translation in order to avoid the high "trap and emulate" performance penalty. In this way, virtualized applications perform quite well, in some cases almost as if th ere were no extra VMM layer involved  The user benefit of virtualization is manifold. Virtualization 225  decouples software from hardware \(provides availability for \223legacy platforms\224, enables software in a cloud 225  utilizes installed hardware more efficient 225  safes space, energy, and invest cost 225  eases system administration extensively  225  but requires additional know-how of system administrators  At this point in time we can say that virtualization has met all of our expectations and offered \226in particular with respect to system administration- even more. The number of plants that started using Virtualization is growing  The process automation staff is still on a learning curve with virtualization in order to take maximum benefit of this technology  Unexploited potential is likely to be found in the field of setting up systems, handling of back-ups and disaster recovery procedures     REFERENCES  200  K. Lawton, Running muliple operating systems concurrently on an IA32 PC using virtualization techniques,http://plex86.org/research/paper.txt 200 www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/001029.html 200 it.anandtech.com 200 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_virtualization 200  Virtualization for dummies SUN and AMD special edition 200 www.intel.com/technology/virtualizatio n/technology.htm?iid=tech_vt+tech 200  2008 Automation Summit - ID#: 1474 - Dow Chemical R&D\222s Global Rollout of PCS7\256 Using VMWare\256, Chicago    200 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ring_\(computer_security 


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





