A Case Study on Entity Resolution for Distant Processing of Big Humanities Data  1  Weijia Xu 2  Maria Esteva 3 Jessica Trelogan 4 Todd Swinson  Texas Advanced Computing Center  Institute of Classical Archaeology  Department of Computer Sciences University of Texas at Austin 1 xwj@tacc.utexas.edu 2 maria@tacc.utexas.edu 3 j.trelogan@austin.utexas.edu 4 swinson@gmail.com  AbstractóAt the forefront of big data in the Humanities collections management can directly impact collections access and reuse. However, curators using traditional data management methods for tasks such as identifying redundant from relevant and related records, a small increase in data volume can significantly increase their workload.   In this paper, we present preliminary work aimed at assisting curators in making important data management decisions for organizing and improving the overall quality of large unstructured Humanities data collections. Using Entity Resolution as a conceptual framework, we created a similarity model that compares directories and files based on their implicit metadata, and clusters pairs of closely related directories. Useful relationships between data are identified and presented through a graphical user interface that allows qualitative evaluation of the clusters and provides a guide to decide on data management actions. To evaluate the modelís performance, we experimented with a test collection and asked the curator to classify the clusters according to four model cluster configurations that consider the presence of related and duplicate information. Evaluation results suggest that the model is useful for making data management action decisions Keywords: Collections Management; Entity Resolution Distant Processing; Digital Humanities I   I NTRODUCTION  One of the challenges introduced by the big data phenomenon in the context of Digital Humanities is that traditional data management methods are not suitable for increasing amounts of digital data. The concepts of ìclose reading and distant reading,î in much use in current Digital Humanities discussions, relate to this problem. They refer respectively to the methods and cognitive demands involved in the close study of a work or passage of text, \(such as that done by traditional literary critics like Harold Bloom, who finds distant reading ìabsurd.î See [1  ve r s us t h e  possibility of studying aggregates of digital texts using computational analysis methods \(Moretti; Matthew Jockers prefers to call this ìmacroanalysis s i m ila r  problem applies to Humanities data management in reference to collection processing activities such as organizing, describing, accessing and preserving digital collections. Loosely borrowing on these concepts, we can say that there are close and distant data processing methods the former understood as linear review methods traditionally used by Humanities scholars and archivists, and the latter as computational methods that narrow large amounts of information to render a meaningful representation. We contend that both; distant and close processing are needed for making sense of big Humanities data.  The problem relates to the mismatch between close processing and the amount of data available for curation. Just a small increase in the amount of data makes time consuming for scholars and curators to read a text, or to look at image, or video files, one after another.  On the other hand, close processing may be needed for fine grain analysis of the contents Ideally, close processing can be preceded by distant processing methods to present the curator with a synthesis involving valid patterns found in the data for making research data management decisions Research data management has the goal of making data and information accessible throughout the duration of the project and to its disposition or long term archivin  Managing data translates into making decisions about what actions to pursue such as what to keep, discard, merge, and organize. In projects with large teams or especially long lifecycles, increasingly typical in Humanities, researchers commonly share, copy and paste, reuse, select, duplicate and transform data in response to research questions or as solutions to specific problems, but seldom document their actions along the way. As data are analyzed, new datasets are collected or produced as by-products, and these are added into the research loop, creating new relationships that may not be obvious or explicitly documented. Data provenance may get blurry or lost entirely in the midst of redundancy and disorder. Furthermore, for data to transition to archival collections, data provenance, inter-relationships and transformations need to be documented or inferred by the archivists The goal of this project is to assist users in overcoming these challenges with large unstructured Humanities datasets. Using Entity Resolution \(ER\nceptual framework w e dev e lope d a th rees t a g e m e t h od th at combines both distant and close processing. After the first stage which involves metadata extraction and preprocessing, the second computational stage as distant processing narrows and groups the metadata into clusters that the user can evaluate within a graphical interface. At the post-processing stage, the user reviews the results and decides what data management actions to pursue as close processing \(e.g. discard, merge, reorganize, re-evaluate or leave data as is ER encompasses a variety of methods developed within different disciplines to resolve cases of data ambiguity and 2013 IEEE International Conference on Big Data 113 978-1-4799-1293-3/13/$31.00 ©2013  IEEE 


repetition, to link relevant information points, and to improve the overall quality of th is a w e ll known problem in Artificial Intelligence \(AI\pecializes in finding duplicate records and locating records that might refer to the same entity such as a person, address, or any other information point. The problem that we address in this project is similar to the applications of ER in AI, but it presents considerable differences as well. In AI, ER aims to identify records of the same thing but with different partial information, the entity is clear in that case. In this project by contrast, we do not have a fixed concept of entity, but we aim to find connections between sets of data that may or may not contain duplicate information For this study we used an archaeological collection generated over decades of re search and publication activities by the Institute of Classical Archaeology \(ICA\ at the University of Texas at Austin. This collection, amassed by several generations of research staff and collaborators from a variety of disciplines, is fairly typical of a large archaeological research project. While the case study is focused on the ICA collectionís particular formation history research and processing requirements, the approach is widely applicable to any large and unstructured data collection that contains redundant data alongside data that need to be assessed and re-organized for study, archiving and dissemination We created a similarity model that allows directories and files to be compared based on their implicit metadata and that clusters closely related pairs of directories. We call implicit metadata the terms and filenames that users create to label their data as they go about their work, while explicit metadata refers to that which is created following descriptive metadata standards. Knowledge from the curator about the collection is incorporated in the first and third stages of the method. Useful relationships between data are found based on a scoring system assigned to numerical series and tags found in the implicit metadata. Results presented through a graphical user interface, allow qualitative evaluation of the clusters and consequently making decisions about data management actions. To evaluate the modelís performance we classify the clusters according to four model cluster configurations that consider the presence of related and duplicate information. Finally an action score is applied to each cluster as an indicator of the curatorís confidence to make decisions about data management actions II  B ACKGOUND AND R ELATED W ORK  A  Formation and Processing of Unorganized Data Aggregations Problems making sense and processing collaborative and un-ruled aggregations of data in networked or virtual organizations emerged early on in the history of digital information management and archiving. In Thirty years of Electronic Records Linda Henry describes the early efforts at the National Archives and Records Administration NARA\ to appraise unorganized materials accumulated in multiple personal computers. Her narrative points to the lack of appropriateness of traditional methods used by archivists to approach this task es of ch aotic g r ou ps o f  records within unmanaged environments whose access can only be understood by the creator, the UK Public Records Office recommends leaving them out of inventories as long as the information is duplicated elsewhe  Many of the reasons why these aggregations are chaotic derive from the way in which they originate and evolve. In her description of the formation process of an organizational archive dating from the mid 80ís to the mid 2000ís, Esteva mentions that, despite the fact that a shared network drive was implemented for file sharing and exchange, each staff member kept and discarded files idiosyncratically and nobody could find each otherís information in g ethnographic methods, Boticelli studied the records derived from collaborative research projects and found that the authorship and origin of the records are difficult to pinpoint due to changes in organizational structure and functions of the projects as well as changes in the value of the data as the research proceeds th e cas e of arc h aeology datas e t s   Trelogan explains that taking care of data management throughout the research project and beyond, places a burden on the research team  her stu d y of di g ital preser v a tio n  practices of archaeologists and art historians, Beaudoin describes faculty image collecting habits as resulting in disconnected, largely invisible, ìhoardsî or ìsilosî of data that not only replicate past work, but are largely invisible as part of the scholarly c ros s th es e papers t h e commonality is that faculty, research staff, and archivists are overwhelmed by the belief that they are incapable of dealing with large, unstructured collections of digital data Preliminary findings from the ChartEX project, that develops methods for analys is of digitized medieval manuscripts while examining researchers response to them suggest that to conduct their work, researchers need to combine both distant and close data examination methods  In th is proj ect w e prov i d e th at k i n d of co m p le m e n t ar y  approach. Our aim is to alleviate the burden on Humanities researchers and archivists trying to make sense of large varied datasets by providing a distant processing model that also allows for close processing of more manageable chunks of information B  Data and Collectionís Organization Xu and Esteva have experimented with various computational analysis methods for purposes of understanding data and archival collectionsí organization and aiding their processing. To find the stories, as records related to a same project or event, amongst the text documents of different staff members in an organization they developed a text mining method to find similarities between text segments [12 Usin g t h e f ile s y ste m  m e tad ata of that same dataset, they created a treemap visualization to 114 


uncover individual staff recordkeeping practices across time   T h e s a m e tea m developed an in teractiv e v i su a l  analytics framework that allows conducting collections structural and functional analyses, and includes a data mining method to infer four types of data organization  W ith a f o cu s o n  m a n a g i ng GIS arch i v a l  data, Heard and Marciano created an application that identifies geographic data and allows the user, via a mapbased interface, to explore metadata and records from a ìtop downî or ìbottom upî including a geographical perspective   T h e w o rk presented h e re f ills a g a p in big data processing in the Humanities, in that it focuses on data organization considering the presence of duplicate and redundant information present in the collection C  Entitiy Resoultion Entity resolution is originated from a classic problem in database research for duplicate records detection [4, 17 In  large database system in the real word, there are duplicate representations of the same object, also known as ìentities in relational databases. Those duplicate records may not be exactly the same or share a common key reflecting their connection in the system. The value of each record could be only partially matched to other records or present certain errors that make detecting those duplicates a difficult task A common example is when multiple different formats of the same address are registered in a database. This problem is also related to record linkage which is to identify records referring to the same entity in different databases A typical entity resolution process includes: data preparation, which transforms data in a uniformed model field matching, which breaks records by field and defines similarity models between fields; and duplicate record detection, which utilizes data mining techniques such as clustering and learning classification, to identify possible duplicated records [4 Ov er th e y ears  th ere h a v e been a  number of studies in this area [17, 19, 20 application  has also broadened into fields like social network analysis and web data mining [21 Until now, ER has not being used in the context of collections management and curation. Our work focuses on utilizing the general ER framework to help identify related records. There are several differences between our conception and the traditional ER approach. First, most of the existing works focus on the structured data source, such as a database, or metadata from web documents. In this project, we are dealing with less structured data that also lacks uniform and consistent metadata. Secondly, the entity is generally clearly defined in ER, such as a product, or a person etc. In this project, the entity is not explicitly defined We consider each sub-directory in the collection as a representation of some abstracted concept or theme that might be important for record keeping and should be taken into account in any curatorial decisions. Hence, the detection of duplicated representations of the same entity is translated to the detection of sub-directories that might be related to the same theme or conc ept. In this exploration, we focused on data modeling and similarity scores III  C ASE S TUDY C OLLECTION  As a test case we used a collection generated by the Institute of Classical Archaeology \(ICA\, which has been conducting research in Greek agricultural territories since 1974. ICAís work has included dozens of excavation projects in southern Italy and Ukraine, in addition to intensive field surveys, campaigns dedicated to site and object conservation, and a huge variety of related studies The resulting digital collection consists of 5TB of data \(over one million files\ generated by hundreds of researchers from many different countries and disciplines, each using distinct recording methods and technologie s. It contains digitized and born-digital photographs, drawings, maps, plans, and notes as well as more complex datasets including GIS data 3D models, and relational databases Throughout its long history, parts of the collection have been copied, transferred, and amalgamated from every available form of detached media, personal computers, and servers, and it has suffered a great deal from duplication and corruption in the process. In addition, there is a general dearth of descriptive metadata and, although some smaller projects have achieved a degree of consistency, there have been no systematically adopted principles for file naming or organization throughout the entire collection. Implicit descriptive metadata has been inconsistently applied in the form of filenames and directory labels that encode things like names or initials of places and people, abbreviations and acronyms, dates, site codes, and subjects, which provide the only information pointers In previous work, the lifecycle of the case study research collection was modeled into three stages: 1 collection of new primary data \(e.g. photography and illustrations of objects\ 2\ its study and synthesis \(e.g quantification and analysis of a particular class of artifact and finally 3\s publication and dissemina T h e motivation for the current project was to locate all relevant data related to one excavation, and, after having reduced as much irrelevant or duplicated data as possible, prepare it for archiving and presentation in print together with an online companion that will include the entire dataset The sample used here contains over 100,000 files, most of which are images of varied formats, either scanned from analog media or captured digitally, and spread across 3033 directories. The implicit metadata takes the form of names given to files and directories by the researchers photographers and scanning technicians in the course of their work, and includes non-standardized terms and numbers that change over time IV  M ETHOD AND I MPLEMENTATION  Due to the diversity of file formats in this collection, a major problem is that there is no way to resolve redundancy with direct content-based comparison methods. Exact 115 


duplicates can be detected by finding fil e checksums, but checksums also indicate c some duplication is done deliberately, so based on checksums alone may be mislea d modification in a file \(e.g. minor edits a n result in a different checksum, even thoug h the file may be considered a duplicate complex in the case of image data. Using i m software for identification of duplicate i m b ring together different related images, no r for purposes of grouping related data in d e.g. spreadsheets and text documents u wise content comparisons among files are expensive and not practical for large-scale approach focuses on the available implici t directory level to return clusters that ma y files. The curator further evaluates if the re s are useful In a nutshell, our method includes a natural language processing \(NLP d methods. We first tokenize each term i structure and submit a list of terms to t determines which ones are meaningful fo r organizational needs. After prep rocessing represented by a set of tokens that appe a within that directory. To relate and compa r developed a scoring model that consider s tags, series and structural information. Usi n comparison between any two directories yi e quantifies the similarity between two proceed with a pair-wise comparison a directories in the test collection. Next, we f directories with low similarity as indicate d vector and conduct cluster analysis wit h directories. Figure 1 shows an overview of t Figure 1: Overview of the processing workflow     Tags Series D  e s with identical c orrupt data, and discarding files ding. A minimal n d resizing\will h for the curator This gets more m age recognition m ages would not r would be useful d ifferent formats u rthermore, pai r computationally collectio n s. Our t metadata at the y contain related s ultant groupings a combination of d data analysis i n the directory t he curato r who r the collectionís each directory is a r in all the files r e directories, we s three features n g this model, the e lds a vector that directories. We a mo n gst all the f ilter out pairs of d by the resul t ant h the remaining t he workflo w   A  Data Pre-processing and Mod e The raw input data is the hie r entire collection including all the d generated the structural file using a utility named ìfind.î We adopte d OpenNLP package http://opennlp common separators to generate to k numbers that appear in the filenam e One of the challenges present e identify directories that contain s different, may be related by prove n For example, a set of image files o user or project may have been  versioned by other users at diff e approach is to utilize the numbers a in the naming conventions to i However, since numbers or seque n may not mean anything, we sequences, and terms within a direc interested first in identifying if a directory.  A series could be numbe by a camera, or numeric codes use d of series is not trivial because num b present in different formats and val u Definition 1 and introduce Algorith m  Definition 1 A series is an ord e a 1  a n>3. Furthermore, the difference b consecutive numerals are within a g Algorithm 1 Series Detection 1.   sort the input sequences 2.   init: Index i 0 ; series S empty 3.   For a value a i in the list 4.     if S is empty 5 S a i a i 1, a i 2 6.     If S is not empty 7.          S S U a i  8.  Check if Sí is a series based on the c 9.     if Sí is a series 10.        i i+1 11 else 12.       i i+1 and S S 13.   Continue with line 3  In this study, we used a heuris the series score as following         The d is calculated as  definitely indicates a series, a sco r p robably a list of categorical numb e with high value of d could also b  D irectory path e ling r archical structure of the d irectories and files. We a Linux operating system d a tokenizer from the a pache.org  hich uses k ens as well as to extract e s and directory labels e d by this collection is to s ets of files that, while n ance, functio n or theme o riginally created by one  reused, modified and e rent time periods. Our a nd sequences embedded i dentify these relations n ces in an individual file consider all numbers tory. Specifically, we are series exists in a given r ing sequences generated d i n filenames. Detection b ers for example, may be u es. We define a series in m 1 for series detection e red set of at least four a 2 a 3 a n and where b etween intervals of two g iven threshold  c omputed series score tic measure to determine   A value of 1.0 of d  r e of less than 1.0 means e rs. And a set of numbers b e a series with a large 116 


difference between any two consecutive m based on the knowledge we had about th e this could be just random sequential num b photographic camera but with no bearing o n Tags are the tokens extracted from the are generally very short and may be idiosy n noise we selected tags based on the i occurrences in the directories. Next, we a s familiar with the collection, to highlight g o from the list of frequent tags. Good tag information such as locations, dates, na m abbreviations. Some examples of good tag s are: Metaponto, CH \(for Chersonesos\, a n Bad tags are those that, though common l indicative of the functions and provenance Some examples of those are: music, friends  In a collection, each directory may number of tags depending on how many f within and how varied their names are. To computation costs and based on studying t h of tags distribution, we fixed the number o directory. The five tags were selecte d following rules   analyze the tags in files in the immedi a   in the first position is the most freque n   in the next four p ositions are the most   if there are not 4 good tags then fill in the most frequent tags   if there are not 5 unique tags in the cu r fill in the remaining positions with U N When identifying series and tags, only t h and directory labels immediately inside analyzed. Previous labels in the full path directory are not considered, and the child r further down the tree are not considered eit h B  Overall Similarity Scoring Model After each directory has been analyzed p ai r need to be compared. The scoring model f o directories consists of the following three f e 1  lists of series identified inside a director y 2  top five tags exctracted inside a director y 3  directory path of the directory  A tag score for each directory pair calculating the number of matches b e directoriesí ìtop 5 tagî vectors.  A positi v position of the vector adds 1 to the t maximum score of 5.  UNKNOWN tags a r same, so the tag score can be high even i f tag matches, for example, considering: [a   c, UNK, UNK, U 4 matches, but since we match UNKís to ea matches are counted. A series score f o directories is calculated as follows   0=no series overlap at all m eans. However e test collection b ers placed by a n similar content filenames which n cratic. To reduce ir frequency of s ked the curato r  o od and bad tags s contain useful m es, and project s in the collection n d IT \(for Italy l y used, are less of the collection  lost, and files have a different f iles are included reduce noise and h e unique number f tags to five per d based on the ate directory n t t ag frequent tags these spots with r rent directory N KNOWN h e names of files a directory are of the analyzed r en in directories h er r wise directories o r comparing two e atures y  y  is computed by e tween the two v e match in each t ag score, for a r e considered the f only one actual  c, UNK, UNK 4 Here, only ìc ch other, 3 more o r each pair of   1=some series overlap \(any ra n series of the same number of d i directories   2=complete series overlap \(bot h exact same number of series, a n the same size, min, and max For the structural comparison suffix scores between the paths o f  The prefix score is the number o directory labels in the path that ar directories, starting from the left T but starts from the right.  One can longest common prefix or suffix b comparing each directory name characters in a string We calculate the overall simil a pair of directories as follows. For vector: [tag score, series score, pr e The scores are normalized and tra n best score, and the highest score is score for the directory pair is calcu l weight vector to obtain the weight e score vector. Lower scores mean m o similar. To group directories and mean clustering to group the dire c groups. K values of 21, 50 and experiment. For each k value, w e times and chose the one with the errors as the output to p resent to th e C  Clustering Analysis and Evalu a  Figure 2. Screenshot of the GUI showing h o can be closely evaluated by the curator Using the similarity scorin g cluster analysis with a stand a algorithm. For evaluation, for calculated its compactness and s u help users access the clustering r e graphical user interface shown in F i n ge overlap between i gits between the two h directories contain the n d each of the series has we calculate prefix and f each pair of directories f consecutive individual e the same between two T he suffix score is similar view these scores as the b etween two strings, but in a path instead of a rity score between each each pair we construct a e fix score, suffix score  n sformed so that 0 is the the worst. The similarity l ated by multiplying by a e d sum of elements in the o re similar.  Zero is most present this we used kc tories into a k value of 125 were used in our e ran the algorithm five lowest sum of squared e evaluators  a tion  o w the contents of each cluster g model we conducted a rd k mean clustering each cluster we also u m of square errors. To e sul t s we implemented a i gure 2 117 


V  R ESULTS E VALUATION AND A The test collection consists of 3,033 with various nested sub-directories. Com p requires running 4.6 million pair-wise c o computed value distributions b ased on features in logarithmic scale. The resul t Figure 3 The tag feature includes the top 5 tags se l directory. The tag feature comparison i number of common items found b etween Therefore, the result ranges from 0 \(no ma t exactly the same set of tags\. For the ser i value means that there is no overlap \(or n between the two directories. Value 1 mea n overlap between the two series, and value 2 directory might have a series that is a sup e from the other directory. Figure 4 indic a cases, the majority of the directories have n top 5 tag selection \(88.8%\ and no relation 93.8%\  This means that we selecte d directories which have highest scores in b o features. In this set, there are 415 directori e has the exact set of top 5 tags and strong s with at least one other directory. No t directories account for about 13.7% of directories in the test collection Figure 3. Tag and series features value distribution A  Evaluation Criteria Our evaluation criteria included classification model to typify the cluste r scoring system to indicate the usefulnes cluster. We mentioned that it is impor t redundancy be automatically discarded represent significant, intentional decisions m creators.  In the process of reducing decisions about whether to delete, merg e leave data untouched must be weighed in rest of the data within which it is stored. F o defined four different clustering models t h and duplicate data and used those to comp a results. The four models are shown in Fi g clusters share a set of duplicate data; 2 e 1 10 100 1000 10000 100000 1000000 10000000 0123 numbers \(log scale Scores Tag F Serie s A NALYSIS  directories each p utationally, this o mparisons.  We tags and series t s are shown in l ected from each i s based on the two directories t ches found\o 5 i es feature, the 0 n o series feature n s that there is an 2 means that one e rset of the series a tes that in both n o overlap in the ship in the series d the subset of o th tag and series e s, each of which s eries connection t e that the 415 total number of  d a cluste r ing r s and an action s of a resultant t ant that not all as some may m ade by the data redundancy, the e reorganize, or context with the o r this reason, we h at share related a re our clustering g ure 4: 1\r of e cluster contains a subset of duplicate data; 3 P related, but not duplicate data; 4 c by duplicate data. A fifth clusterin g not having related nor duplicate d useful result. For the results ev a result was compared to the m o containing one or more of them                    Figure 4. Cluster classification model with f i We then proceeded to score t h scoring system allowed us to p erformance of the model in rela t actions. The scoring represents th e the curator in making a data mana cluster; 1= some confidence, but n e and 2=complete confidence, take a c A curator actively working w reviewed the clustering results afte r clustering types and clarifying th e scoring system N ote that the eval u See Figure 2\, only involves revi e labels and file names, not readin g contents. At this point, the curator d data management action to pursue  notes about the characteristics of improve or refine the model   B  Quantitative Analysis of Clust e We reviewed the three sets of different k-value \(21, 50, and 1 2 which one better achieved the cha l redundant information for action merging all data related to one p r o p hotographic campaign, publicatio n each set provided different results 45 F eature s feature     Type 1: two clusters share a subset of duplicates Type 2 a clu   Type 3: two clusters contain useful related info but no duplicates Typ e are e   Type 5: Bad cluster; nothing rela t Feature P air of clusters contains c luster is formed entirely g model was identified as d ata and thus as a nona luatio n each clustering o dels and classified as i ve clustering types  h e clustering results. This determine the overall ion to data management e level of confidence of gement actio n 0=ignore eds further investigation c tion w ith the test collection r being trained to identify e meaning of the action u ation done with the GUI e wing directory structure g or observing the files d id not define the type of  but was asked to make the resulting clusters to e ring Comparisons clustering results with a 5\ith an eye toward l lenges of: a\entifying and b\ identifying and o ject \(e.g excavation site n etc.\e observed that one cluster contains ster of duplicates    e 4: two clusters e ntirely duplicates ed or useful 118 


Figure 5. Comparison of different k values in relation t  Figure 5 shows a comparison of the d clusters, indicating the percentage of in d clusters labeled by the curator within the d i Because each clustering result was classifi e one or more clustering types, the sum of t individual types may exceed 1. In fact indicates that the clustering is less decisive it contains mixed cluster types. Hence, a smaller clusters can further separate out reduc the number of multiple types in ea c the clustering results, the type 3, wh i containing related directories b ut no duplic a most common occurring.  We observe that t type 5 clusters, labeled as useless, decreas e increase. This indicates that with high e clustering results become more h o consequently, more helpful for the c u decisions Figure 6. Comparison of action decisions and their co n corresponding k value clusters Figure 6 shows a comparison bet w decisions made by the curator, their asso c levels, and the corresponding k value clust e each column shows the number of cl u decision made. The confidence level of shown in different colors.  0 indicates no and 2 indicates high confidence in the actio n When the k value is small, the clust e mixed types of clustering models within H with scoring 1 will need close processing  0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 21k 50k 125k RATIO 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Percentage  t o cluste r ing types d ifferent k value d ividual types of i fferent k results e d as mapping to t he percentage of a higher value to the curator as large number of those cases and c h cluster.  In all i ch are clusters a ted data, was the t he percentage of e s as the k values e r k values the o mogenous and u rator to make  n fidence in relation to w een the action c iated confidence e rs. The length of u sters with each each decision is confidence at all n decision er s often contain H ence, all clusters  Instead, for the k125 clustering results, we obser v action and no action decisions narr o C  Qualitative Evaluation of the C The collectionís curator comp l of the clusters focusing on their c o in general, across the different k v types 1-4\ented data in ways patterns that would have been imp linear review. She was able to deri v and to create new organization a clusters. We describe some of obs e findings in relation to data m a processing practices Large sectors of the collectio n up as types 1 and 4 clusters, were b ackups that could be immediatel y the backups were located in deepl y opportunity to observe this trend in have presented itself using close nested directories are confusing to r A number of type 2 clusters w the curator. While these were in other files, they represented delib e creators and, in several cases, allo w the provenance of files selected ou t directory \(either to be processed, r e research project\ These duplicates b e described with their provena n would otherwise be lost if they wer e The curator identified a numbe r clusters that never would have occ u In more than one cluster, files fro m campaign were identified as relat e auto-generated by a digital camera  separated in two very different d i archive and labeled differently algorithm also discloses different l a case due to sequencing series that a l of the relationship between the f i same photographic campaign photographer The most ìsuccessfulî result w value of 125. Although all three useful, and very different, clusters terms of confidence scores \(See Fi g a score of 2, an immediate decisio n close processing. The clusters wit h useful, in that they indicate the n e and as a guide for what to modif y the algorithm. In relation to the la t that, considering the amount of se q collection, the series score needs t the comparison, and that a dynami c would be useful to data organizatio n type-5 type-4 type-3 type-2 type-1 Score 2 Score 1 Score 0 v e that the ratio between ow s down \(70 vs. 49 C lustering Results l eted a qualitative review o ntent. She observed that alues, the useful clusters that allowed discovering o ssible to detect through v e a list of ìaction items a l groups based on the e rvations to illustrate the a nagement and archival n most of which showed identified as useless old y deleted. In every case y nested directories. The the collection may never processing methods, as r eview w ere of direct interest to fact identical copies of e rate choices by the data w ed for reconstruction of t and copied into another e used, or fed into another were left as is, but could n ce information, which e found out of context r of related data as type 3 ur red as being connected m the same photographic e d because of file names  although they had been i rectory locations in the This means that the a yers of similarity, in this l lo w ed for reconstruction i les as belonging to the or sharing the same w as the set that used a k k value sets contained it performed the best in g ure 6\ clusters with n could be made without h scores of 1 were also e ed for close processing y in a second iteration of t ter, the curator observed q uencing numbers in this t o have less relevance in c review of the good tags n goals 119 


The qualitative evaluation was instructive for: a establishing priorities for close processing \(those action items with confidence score =1\\ reducing unnecessary redundancy, c\ informing a deeper understanding of the contents of the archive and d\ indicating what needs to be refined in a next iteration of the algorithm. The exercise of reviewing three sets of clusters took a total of ~8 hours. Not only did this ìdistantî method speed up the process of reviewing and tidying the archive in comparison to reviewing the collection item by item, it also provided significant insight into the formation process and embedded meaning in the collection. Th e curator noted that actions could be determined after close processing of the cluster results, including directives like ìdelete directory,î ìmerge with directory Y after deleting duplicatesî, or ìleave as is VI  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  As a preliminary attempt to apply general ER framework and techniques in the realm of collection curation, our initial efforts focused on practical benefits for a specific collection Many aspects of this presentation are specifically tied to the test collection and utilize heuristics from that collectionís curator. On one hand, this is necessary due to a lack of prior knowledge or prior models applicable to this problem. On the other hand, the heuristic knowledge, such as series distribution and customized tags lists, simplify the computations and the complexity of the processing workflow. Still, we think that using ER as a framework for data curation processes is a viable approach that can be generalized to other collections with additional learning methods to improve its robustness and effectiveness There is an important part missing from the work presented here, namely the scope of the results in relation to the entire collection. Understanding how complete is the representation provided by the distant processing is not yet possible because there is no suitable benchmark set Creating such a benchmark is not trivial, but is something we will strive for in future work In the future, we want to investigate what kind of results might be produced by further modifying the algorithm as a consequence of observations during the first clustering iteration evaluation and of the emergence of new requirements as the data are cleaned, reorganized, and filtered. We also plan to visualize the cluster review process including other metadata such as identical checksums, and file format identification that can help the curator validate his cluster evaluation and improve action decision making A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  Funding for this work was provided by grants from the National Archives and Records Administration and the Packard Humanities Institute R EFERENCES  1  R  S e rlen  Th e Di s t ant F u tu re? R ead in g F r a n c o M o ret t i    Literature Compass vol. 7, pp. 214-225, 2010 2   M L  J o c k e r s   Macroanalysis: Digital Methods and Literary History  University of Illinois Press, 2013 3  C  L  B o rgm a n T h e c onu nd ru m of s h a r i n g res e a r c h da ta    J. Am Soc. Inf. Sci. Technol vol. 63, pp. 1059-1078, 2012 4 F  Na u m ann  a n d  M  Hers c h el 2010   An introduction to duplicate detection Available http://dx.doi.org/10.2200/S00262ED1V01Y201003DTM003 5 L  J. He n r y   A p p r ai sal o f e l e c t r o n i c re co rd s," i n  In Thirty Years of Electronic Records B. I. Ambacher., Ed., ed Maryland, USA: The Scarecrow Press, 2003, p. 216 6 P R Offic e   2 000   Guidance for an Inventory of Electronic Records: a Toolkit Available http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/documents/inventory_toolkit.pdf  M  E s t e va a n d H Bi   I n f erri n g i n t r a orga n i za ti ona l c o lla b ora t i on from cosine similarity distributions in text documents," presented at the Proceedings of the 9th ACM/IEEE-CS joint conference on Digital libraries, Austin, TX, USA, 2009 8  P  Bo tt ice l l i  R e c o r ds ap pr a i s a l in ne tw o r k o r g a niz a t i o n s    Archivaria vol. 1, 2000 9 J  T r e l oga n   A  R a bi n o w i t z  M   E s t e va  a n d S P i pk in  W h a t d o w e  do with the mess? Managing and preserving process history in evolving digital archaeological archives," presented at the 38th Conference on Computer Applications and Quantitative Methods in Archaeology, Granada, Spain, 2010 10  J. E Be au do i n  S pe cte r s in t h e A r chiv e   F a cul t y D i g ital  I m age  Collections and the Problems of Invisibility The Journal of Academic Librarianship vol. 37, pp. 488-494, 2011 11  S  R. J o ne s an d H  P e tr ie  C har t Ex  D i s c o v e r i ng s p a t i a l de s c r i pt io ns  and relationships in medieval charters paper," presented at the Digital Humanities 2013, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA, 2013  W  Xu an d M  E s t e va  F i n d i n g  s t ori es in th e a r c h i v e th rou gh paragraph alignment Literary and Linguistic Computing vol. 26 pp. 359-363, 2011  W  Xu  M E s t e va  and S D  J a in Vi s u a l i z i n g p e rs on a l di gi ta l collections," presented at the Proceedings of the 10th annual joint conference on Digital libraries, Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia 2010  W  Xu   M  E s t e va  S. D J a in an d V  J a i n  A n a ly s i s of la rge d i gi ta l collections with interactive visualization," presented at the 2011 IEEE Conference on Visual Analytics Science and Technology \(VAST'11 Providence, RI USA, 2011 15  M  E s t e v a  J  A  T r e l o g a n  W  X u   A  J  S o l i s  a n d N   E  L a u l a n d   Lost in the Data, Aerial Views of an Archaeological Collection presented at the Digital Humanities 2013, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA 2013 16  J. R. H e ar d an d R  J Mar c ia no  A s y ste m  f o r scal abl e v i sual iz atio n  of geographic archival records," in Large Data Analysis and Visualization \(LDAV\, 2011 IEEE Symposium on 2011, pp. 121-122  A   K  E l m a ga rm i d  P  G   I p ei rot i s  a n d V S Very k i os  Du p lic a t e  Record Detection: A Survey Knowledge and Data Engineering IEEE Transactions on vol. 19, pp. 1-16, 2007 18  T  N  H e r z o g   F  S c he ur e n  an d W  E  W i nkl e r  2 00 7  Data quality and record linkage techniques   H K o p c k e  A  T h or and E   R a h m  E va lu a t i o n of ent i t y res o lu t i on approaches on real-world match problems Proc. VLDB Endow vol 3, pp. 484-493, 2010 20  P  Chr is te n an d S p r i ng e r L i nk O nl ine  s e r v ice    201 2  Data matching concepts and techniques for record linkage, entity resolution, and duplicate detection  21  M B i l g ic, L  L i cam e le L   G e too r an d B. S h ne ide r m a n D du pe  A n  interactive tool for entity resolution in social networks," in Visual Analytics Science And Technology, 2006 IEEE Symposium On 2006 pp. 43-50 22  L   G e to o r and C P  D i e h l   L ink m i ni ng  a s u r v ey   ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter vol. 7, pp. 3-12, 2005 23  I  Bha tta ch ar y a an d L  G e to o r Co l l e ctiv e e n tity r e s o l u tio n i n  relational data ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data \(TKDD vol. 1, p. 5, 2007  C  P. Di eh l G  Na m a t a  and L  Get oor R ela t i o n s hi p id en ti fic a ti on for social network discovery," in AAAI  2007, pp. 546-552  120 


to efìciently identify critical outliers Moreover S ONATA can monitor the behaviors of a jobês execution on-the-îy to facilitate online optimization while HiTune only offers post-execution performance analysis Starìsh is a self-tuning system that enables Hadoop users to get good performance automatically without deep understanding of many tuning knobs available 7  O ne of the key features of Starìsh is that it can automatically set the near-optimal parameters for Hadoop jobs However Starìsh mainly focuses on the tuning of the parameters of Hadoop framework which cannot be used to optimize the runtime engines and diagnose hardware problems In other words Starìsh cannot facilitate full-system optimization Theia 13 i s a vis u alization t ool to generate visual signatures of each jobês performance by analyzing the applicationlevel logs of a Hadoop cluster The visual signatures facilitate troubleshooting the performance problems e.g hardware failure data skew and software bugs etc on the cluster However Theia cannot tackle with misconìgurations of runtime engine and underlying hardware Hadoop vaidya is a rule-based performance diagnostic tool for MapReduce jobs 14 Al t hough i t can pro vi de recommendations based on the analysis of runtime statistics it cannot facilitate full-system optimization PerfXPlain is a system enables users to ask questions about the relative performances i.e runtimes of pairs of MapReduce jobs 15 Ho we v e r  t h i s s y s t em mai nl y focus es on e xpl ai ni ng the performance similarity or difference between pairs of MapReduce job or task executions In summary current approaches mainly target to the optimization of MapReduce parameters which cannot be helpful for full-system optimization In contrast by correlating different phases tasks and resources S ONATA is able to efìciently identify critical outliers for full-system optimization Besides the monitoring capability of S ONATA can facilitate the online optimization of MapReduce applications VIII C ONCLUSION In this paper we present a correlation-based performance analysis approach to efìciently identify the critical outliers for full-system MapReduce optimization The key intuition is that the critical outliers can only be accurately and efìciently identiìed by correlating different phases tasks and hardware resources Once critical outliers are identiìed several empirical optimization rules can be deployed to tame them The proposed approach is further implemented as a tool named as S ONATA S ONATA has been deployed on IBM Platform Symphony TM  and experimental results show that it only causes less than 5 performance overhead for more than 2000 tasks on a 10-node PowerLinux TM 7R2 system Finally with the help of S ONATA  we manage to sort 1TB data in 7 minutes on this system running IBM Platform Symphony TM  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT We would like to thank H Peter Hofstee and Jian Li for sharing the cluster with us We also would like to thank Zane Hu Alicia Chin and Yonggang Hu for providing product supports R EFERENCES  J Dean and S  Ghema w a t  Mapreduce si mpl i  ed dat a processing on large clusters in Proceedings of OSDIê04  2004 pp 137Ö150   Apache hadoop  h ttp hadoop apache or g  Cloudera enterprise core  h ttp://www  c loudera com/content cloudera/en/products/cloudera-enterprise-core.html 4  Ib m i n f o s p h e re b i g i n s ig h t s  h ttp www-0 1  ib m.co m software/data/infosphere/biginsights  Ibm platform symphon y   h ttp://www-03 ibm com/systems technicalcomputing/platformcomputing/products/symphony 6 K  K ambat l a  A  P at hak and H P ucha T o w ar ds opt i m i z i n g hadoop provisioning in the cloud in Proceedings of HotCloudê09  2009 7 H  H er odot ou H L i m G L uo N B o r i so v  L  Dong F  B  Cetin and S Babu Starìsh A self-tuning system for big data analytics in Proceedings of CIDRê11  2011 pp 261 272 8 Z  R en X Xu J  W an W  S hi  and M Z hou W or kl oad characterization on a production hadoop cluster A case study on taobao in Proceedings of IISWCê12  2012 pp 3Ö13 9 P  W  F r e y a nd G Al onso Mi ni mi zi ng t h e h i dden cost of rdma in Proceedings of ICDCS 09  2009 pp 553Ö560 10 Gan g lia mo n ito rin g s y stem  h ttp g an g lia.so u r cefo r g e n et  G Anant hanar ayanan S  Kandul a A Gr eenber g I  S t oi ca Y Lu B Saha and E Harris Reining in the outliers in mapreduce clusters using mantri in Proceedings of OSDIê10  2010 pp 1Ö16  J Dai  J Huang S  Huang B  Huang and Y  L i u Hi t une dataîow-based performance analysis for big data cloud in Proceedings of ATCê11  2011 pp 7Ö20  E  G a r duno S  P  K a vul ya J T an R  G andhi  a nd P Narasimhan Theia visual signatures for problem diagnosis in large hadoop clusters in Proceedings of LISAê12  2012 pp 33Ö42  Hadoop v a idya  h ttp://hadoop apache or g/docs/stable/v aidya html  N Khoussai no v a  M  B al azi nska and D  S uci u   P e r f xpl ai n debugging mapreduce job performance Proc VLDB Endow  vol 5 no 7 pp 598Ö609 2012 761 


  D Sigel and D Wettergreen 223Star tracker celestial localization system for a lunar rover,\224 in Proc of the IEEE/RSJ Int Conf on Intelligent Robots and Systems 050IROS\051  29 Oct 2 Nov 2007 pp 2851\2262856   N Xiaolin and F Jiancheng 223A new autonomous celestial navigation method for the lunar rover,\224 Robotics and Autonomous Systems  vol 57 no 1 pp 48 226 54 2009   J Enright T Barfoot and M Soto 223Star tracking for planetary rovers,\224 in Proc of the IEEE Aerospace Conf  Mar 2012 pp 1\22613   M Cummins and P Newman 223FAB-MAP Probabilistic localization and mapping in the space of appearance,\224 The Int Journal of Robotics Research  vol 27 no 6 pp 647\226665 2008   M Shuster and S Oh 223Three-axis attitude determination from vector observations,\224 Journal of Guidance and Control  vol 4 no 1 pp 70\22677 1981   M Kaess H Johannsson R Roberts V Ila J J Leonard and F Dellaert 223iSAM2 Incremental smoothing and mapping using the bayes tree,\224 The Int Journal of Robotics Research 050IJRR\051  vol 31 no 2 pp 216\226 235 2012   C Tong and T D Barfoot 223Gaussian Process GaussNewton for 3D laser-based visual odometry,\224 in Proc of the IEEE Conf on Robotics and Automation 050ICRA\051 to appear  Karlsruhe Germany 6\22610 May 2013 B IOGRAPHY  Jonathan D Gammell is a Ph.D student at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 and a member of the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 He holds a B.A.Sc degree 0502006\051 from the University of Waterloo 050UW\051 in Mechanical Engineering 050Physics Option With Distinction Dean's Honours List\051 and a M.A.Sc 0502010\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Aerospace Science and Engineering in the Space Robotics Group His current research focus is developing planning techniques for rovers in unstructured terrain in order to minimize their 002nal positional uncertainty Chi Hay Tong is a Ph.D candidate at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 and a member of the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 He holds a B.A.Sc degree 0502008\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Engineering Science 050Computer Option\051 and his recent research focus is on laser-based mapping and navigation Peter Berczi is a M.A.Sc student at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 with the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 He has a B.A.Sc 050Honours 2012\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Engineering Science 050Aerospace Option\051 His research is focused on developing a terrain assessment framework for mobile robots particularly for robots operating on the Moon or Mars Sean Anderson received a B.A.Sc degree in Mechatronics Engineering 050With Distinction Dean's Honours List\051 from the University of Waterloo 050UW\051 in 2011 Currently he is a Ph.D student in the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 His main research interest is in improving Simultaneous Localization and Mapping 050SLAM\051 algorithms for mobile robots in threedimensional unstructured terrain Timothy D Barfoot holds a B.A.Sc 050Honours 1997\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Engineering Science 050Aerospace Option\051 and a Ph.D 0502002\051 from the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 in Aerospace Engineering He is currently an Associate Professor at UTIAS where he leads the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 Before joining UTIAS he worked at MDA Space Missions in the Controls  Analysis Group on applications of mobile robotics to space exploration and underground mining Dr Barfoot is a Canada Research Chair 050Tier II\051 in Autonomous Space Robotics a Professional Engineer of Ontario and an IEEE Member John Enright holds a B.A.Sc 0501997\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 050Engineering Science Aerospace\051 and a M.S 0501999\051 and a Ph.D 0502002\051 from Massachusetts Institute of Technology 050MIT\051 in Aerospace Systems He is currently an Associate Professor in Aerospace Engineering at Ryerson University in Toronto Having joined the faculty at Ryerson University in 2003 he is now the Principal Investigator of the Space Avionics and Instrumentation Laboratory 050SAIL\051 While at MIT 0501999-2003\051 he led the software development for the SPHERES 003ight project and the GFLOPS real-time spacecraft simulation testbed His research interests include spacecraft avionics and sensor processing systems engineering and 003ight software Dr Enright is a member of the AIAA CASI and the IEEE 10 


Table 9  CMG Ops Mode Uplink Command  Description Bits Hex Chars Value Description  Operating mode ID 8 2 01 Detumble Mode  01  Beacon interval 8 2 XX 05000 to FF\051 00 corresponds to 30 s XX corresponds to increments of 10 s The frequency can be varied from 10 s to 2550 s 05042 mins\051  Battery voltage 8 2 XX 05000 to FF\051 Signed two's complement integer 0 corresponds to 7.0v each increment is 0.01 V  Uplink time 48 12 XXX year X month XX hour XX day XX minute XX second  Orbital position 192 48 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX orbital position in 0.5 meter resolution ranging from 0 to 8388.608 km XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  Orbital velocity 192 48 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX orbital velocity in 0.25 meter/s resolution ranging from 0 to 16.384 km/s XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  QUEST weights 8 2 XX 0500 to 15\051 0500 to 1\051 each increment represents 0.05  Maneuver type 4 1 X 0500 or 1\051 0  R2 1  sun pointing  Maneuver time 48 12 XXX year X month XX hour XX day XX minute XX second  Total 516 129  discussed in this paper is capable of distributed operation and is intelligently designed to perform mission operations through duty cycling of the two processing units The on orbit average power is utilized effectively to produce net positive power store it on board the Li-Po batteries and discharge them by executing high power primary mission objectives Each computing unit is designed with its own storage device to store mission speci\002c data which is downlinked during an overhead pass of the CubeSat The CDH 003ight software is designed in the form of operating modes which are capable of being commanded from ground multiple times The CubeSat is capable of teleoperation autonomous and semiautonomous operation Every operating mode is designed with a downlink telemetry budget which is designed to capture data for validating primary and secondary objectives The 003ight software and thus the CubeSat is designed for on orbit tuning through an uplink command speci\002c for each operating mode The ADS mode and CMG Ops mode are implemented as distributed operations which get initiated by the 003ight computer through ground control and are executed on the auxiliary processor Effectively the distributed computing architecture and its operational design enable a CubeSat to demonstrate precision 3-axes attitude control and showcase the potential of such a computing platform for enabling similar complex capabilities A PPENDIX For completeness and facilitation of design of tasks encountered in the various operating modes the design of the following functions is presented in the form of 003owcharts 1  Deploy antenna 050Fig 9\051 2  Safe-hold mode functions 050Fig 10\051 3  Detumble mode functions 050Fig 11\051 4  Comms mode functions 050Fig 12\051 Figure 9  Deploy Antenna 11 


Figure 10  Safe-hold Functions Figure 11  Safe-hold Functions 12 


Figure 12  Safe-hold Functions R EFERENCES   H Heidt J Puig-Suari A Moore S Nakasuka and R Twiggs 223Cubesat A new generation of picosatellite for education and industry low-cost space experimentation,\224 in Proceedings of the Utah State University Small Satellite Conference Logan UT  Citeseer 2001 pp 1\2262   J Schaffner and J Puig-Suari 223The Electronic System Design Analysis Integration and Construction of the Cal Poly State University CP1 CubeSat,\224 in 16th AIAA/USU on Small Satellites Conference Logan UT  Citeseer 2002 pp 1\2262   R Munkata 223Cubesat design speci\002cation rev 12,\224 August 2009   G Minelli A Ricco D Squires C Beasley and J Hines 223O/oreos A multi-payload technology demonstration,\224 in Proceedings of the 24th Annual AIAA/USU Conference on Small Satellites Logan UT  2010   C Kitts J Hines E Agasid A Ricco B Yost K Ronzano and J Puig-Suar 223The GeneSat-1 Microsatellite Mission A Challenge in Small Satellite Design,\224 in Proc 20th Annual AIAA/USU Conf on Small Satellites Logan UT  2006   D Schor J Scowcroft C Nichols and W Kinsner 223A command and data handling unit for pico-satellite missions,\224 in Electrical and Computer Engineering 2009 CCECE'09 Canadian Conference on  IEEE 2009 pp 874\226879   M Swartwout C Kitts R Twiggs B Smith T Kenny R Lu K Statten\002eld R Batra and F Pranajaya 223Flight results for the sapphire satellite a low-cost university-class mission.\224   C McBryde and E Lightsey 223A star tracker design for cubesats,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2012 IEEE  IEEE 2012 pp 1\22614   W Kinsner D Schor R Fazel-Darbandi B Cade K Anderson C Friesen D Kotelko and P Ferguson 223The t-sat1 nanosatellite team of teams,\224 in Cognitive Informatics  Cognitive Computing 050ICCI CC\051 2012 IEEE 11th International Conference on  IEEE 2012 pp 380\226390   M Swartwout and S Jayaram 223The argus mission Detecting thruster plumes for space situational awareness,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2011 IEEE  IEEE 2011 pp 1\22610   M Swartwout C Kitts P Stang and E Lightsey 223A standardized distributed computing architecture Results from three universities,\224 in Proceedings of the 19th Annual AIAA/USU Conference on Small Satellites  2005   I Garcia 223Texas instruments application report tms320c6711d c6712d c6713b power consumption summary,\224 http://focus.ti.com/lit/an/spra889a/spra889a.pdf 2005   223MSP430 16-bit Ultra-Low Power Micorcontroller,\224 www.ti.com/msp430   223C6000 High Performance DSP,\224 http://focus.ti.com/paramsearch/docs 13 


parametricsearch.tsp?family dspsectionId=2tabId=57familyId=132   S Asundi 223Cubesat system design based on methodologies adopted for developing wireless robotic platform,\224 Ph.D dissertation University of Florida 2011   S Asundi and N Fitz-Coy 223Cubesat mission design based on a systems engineering approach,\224 in IEEE Aerospace Conference  IEEE 2013   W Lan 223Poly Picosatellite Orbital Deployer Mk III ICD,\224 http://cubesat.calpoly.edu/images LaunchProviders/mk  iii  icd5.pdf 2007   R Nugent R Munakata A Chin R Coelho and J Puig-Suari 223The cubesat The picosatellite standard for research and education,\224 Aerospace Engineering  vol 805 pp 756\2265087 2008   J Puig-Suari C Turner and W Ahlgren 223Development of the standard CubeSat deployer and a CubeSat class PicoSatellite,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2001 IEEE Proceedings  vol 1 2001   V Galysh 223Katysat radio board rev 2.4,\224 January 2008   S Asundi M Mahin V Nagabhushan T Lin and N Fitz-Coy 223Composite and PCB Based Implementations of a Solar Panel Design for SwampSat,\224 in SmallSat Conference  2010   V Galysh 223Varta poli\003explf 503759 d.\224   M Shuster and S Oh 223Three-axis attitude determination from vector observations,\224 Journal of Guidance and Control  vol 4 no 1 pp 70\22677 1981   J Murrell 223Precision attitude determination for multimission spacecraft,\224 in Guidance and Control Conference Palo Alto Calif August 7-9 1978 Technical Papers.\050A78-50159 22-01\051 New York American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Inc 1978 p 7087  1978   R Kalman 223A new approach to linear 002ltering and prediction problems,\224 Journal of Basic Engineering  vol 82 no 1 pp 35\22645 1960   R Kalman and R Bucy 223New results in linear 002ltering and prediction theory,\224 Random Processes  1973 B IOGRAPHY  Sharan Asundi is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Aerospace Science Engineering at Tuskegee University He graduated with a MS and PhD in Aerospace Engineering from University of Florida in 2011 under the guidance of Dr Norman Fitz-Coy His research interests include design of autonomous ground and space systems spacecraft attitude determination and estimation vehicle health monitoring and design of small satellite mission operations Norman G Fitz-Coy is an Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida in Gainesville He is the Director of the Advanced Space Technologies Research and Engineering Center 050ASTREC\051 a National Science Foundation 050NSF\051 Industry/University Cooperative Research Center Dr FitzCoy's research efforts address the dynamics and controls of multi-degree-of-freedom 050M-DOF\051 systems with emphasis on space appications One of the current research interests is attitude control of small satellites 050less than 10 kg in mass\051 His research team has developed the world's smallest control moment gyroscopes and these will be 003ight veri\002ed the upcoming UF CubeSat mission SwampSat 14 


Integrating Context-Awareness and Trustworthiness in IoT Descriptions 1168 Kaiyu Wan and Vangalur Alagar Building Smart M2M Applications Using the WuKong Profile Framework 1175 Kwei-Jay Lin, Neils Reijers, Yu-Chung Wang, Chi-Sheng Shih, and Jane Y. Hsu A Human Trajectory Estimate Based on Individual Mobility Pattern Library 1181 Yang Yang, Bowen Du, and Xiao Jiang The Research on Monitoring of Discrete Manufacturing Process Based on Internet of Things 1186 Liuyin Yuan, Yu Guo, Jiajun Jiang, and Liyun Nian Research on the Framework of Internet of Things in Manufacturing for Aircraft Large Components Assembly Site 1192 Jihong Liu and Jie Yu Technical State Monitoring and Evaluation of Aerospace Product Manufacturing Workshop Based on Internet of Things 1197 Jihong Liu and Wenting Xu Temperature Map Recovery Based on Compressive Sensing for Large-Scale Wireless Sensor Networks 1202 Xuanxuan Wu, Cheng-Long Chuang, and Joe-Air Jiang Interoperability Repository System for the Internet-of-Things 1207 Pedro MalÛ, Tiago Teixeira, Bruno Almeida, and M·rcio Mateus Discussion on Key Technologies in Forestry Fundamental Scientific Information Cloud Service Platform 1216 Mubo Zhang, Zhongming Li, and Fan Li Symposium on Frontiers of Cyber-Physical-Social Computing SymCPS Leveraging Social Network APIs for Enhancing Smartphone Apps: An Example of VoIP App 1219 Shuchih Ernest Chang and Pin-Fan Lee Extending and Recompiling AADL for CPS Modeling 1225 Zhonghao Sun and Xingshe Zhou A Novel Frequency Hopping Scheme Based on Cognitive Radio for Aircraft 1231 Lei Zhidong and Zhang Xiaolin Modeling Effects of Physical Factors on Controller Area  Network in Cyber-physical Systems 1237 Bo Shen, Xingshe Zhou, and Ru Wang Detecting Flu Transmission by Social Sensor in China 1242 Jiangmiao Huang, Hui Zhao, and Jie Zhang A Smart Cyber-physical Systems-Based Solution for Pest Control \(Work in Progress 1248 Farhad Mehdipour, Krishna Chaitanya Nunna, and Kazuaki J. Murakami 
xix 


A Hybrid Content-Based Filtering Approach: Recommending Microbloggers for Web-Based Communities 1254 Kejun Dong and Yi Shen Just-in-Time Social Cloud: Computational Social Platform to Guide People's Just-in-Time Decisions 1259 Kwan Hong Lee, Andrew Lippman, Alex S. Pentland, and Pattie Maes Towards a Hybrid Approach of Primitive Cognitive Network Process and K-Means Clustering for Social Network Analysis 1267 Chun Guan and Kevin Kam Fung Yuen A Compressive Sensing Based Secure Data Transmission Scheme 1272 Guorui Li and Ying Wang An IO Optimized Data Access Method in Distributed Key-Value Storage System 1276 Li Chao, Wu Guangjun, Wang Shupeng, and Li Yixi W e  K n o w  W h a t  Y o u  A r e A  U s e r  C l a s s i f i c a t i o n  B a s e d  o n  M o b i l e  D a t a                                                             1 2 8 2 Duan Hu, Fei Sun, Lai Tu, and Benxiong Huang E f f i c i e n t  S e c u r i t y  S o l u t i o n  f o r  I n f o r m a t i o n c e n t r i c  N e t w o r k i n g                                                                          1 2 9 0 Hasen Nicanfar, Peyman TalebiFard, Chunsheng Zhu, and Victor C.M. Leung Towards Dynamic Resource Provisioning for Traffic Mining Service Cloud 1296 Jianjun Yu and Tongyu Zhu Leading Users Detecting Model in Professional Community Question Answering Services 1302 Siqi Song, Ye Tian, Wenwen Han, Xirong Que, and Wendong Wang A Moving Foreground Expansion Method Based on the Gaussian Distribution 1308 Yanhua Li, Wei Li, and Qi Xiang A Hybrid Emotion Recognition on Android Smart Phones 1313 Weishan Zhang, Xin Meng, Qinghua Lu, Yuan Rao, and Jiehan Zhou Multi-view Approach for Modeling Aerospace Cyber-physical Systems 1319 Lichen Zhang EigenCrime: An Algorithm for Criminal Network Mining Based on Trusted Computing 1325 Shujun Cai, Jiangnan Xia, Keyi Sun, and Zhen Wang A Task-Attribute-Based Workflow Access Control Model 1330 Yi Liu, Ke Xu, and Junde Song GreenBicycling: A Smartphone-Based Public Bicycle Sharing System for Healthy Life 1335 Yifan Zhao, Longbiao Chen, Chao Teng, Shijian Li, and Gang Pan Multi-step Sensor Scheduling for Energy-Efficient High-Accuracy Collaborative Target Tracking in Wireless Sensor Networks 1341 Biao Song, Wendong Xiao, and Zhaohui Zhang xx  


International Workshop on Vehicular Sensor and Ad-Hoc Networks \(VeSAN 2013 Toward Optimal Additive Noise Distribution for Privacy Protection in Mobile Statistics Aggregation 1346 Hao Zhang, Yonggang Wen, Honggang Hu, and Nenghai Yu Performance Analysis of a Hierarchical Structured VANET 1352 Wanting Zhu, Qing Zhang, and A.C.M. Fong Multilevel Cluster-Based Information Fusion in Vehicle Ad Hoc Networks 1357 Weicheng Zhao, Linjuan Zhang, Wanting Zhu, and Yanqi Zhao PSFCS: Robust Emergency Communications Supporting High-Mobility Based on WiMAX MMR Networks 1363 Wen-Kang Jia, Chia-Yao Chen, and Yaw-Chung Chen International Workshop on Next Topics for Green Communications and Computing \(GreenCom-Next 2013 On Energy Efficiency Data Access and Backup for Cloud Computing Networks 1369 Yeanf-Fu Wen A Model to Analyze the Energy Savings of Base Station Sleep Mode in LTE HetNets 1375 Paolo Dini, Marco Miozzo, Nicola Bui, and Nicola Baldo Soft Timing Synchronization Algorithm for CPM Signals 1381 Xiangchao Zhou, Rui Xue, Danfeng Zhao, and Fu Fang Secure Framework for the Return Routability Procedure in MIPv6 1386 Faisal Al Hawi, Chan Yeob Yeun, and Khaled Salah An Energy Efficient Cache Design for Multi-core Processors 1392 Cao Xiangrong and Zhang Xiaolin Analysis Method of Energy for C Source Program and Its Application 1397 Yang Yuechuan, Zeng Guosun, Ding Chunling, and Wang Wei Simulating Stochastic Activation Functions 1403 Hanno Hildmann, Sebastien Nicolas, and Fabrice Saffre Power-Efficient Virtual Machine Placement and Migration in Data Centers 1408 Shuo Fang, Renuga Kanagavelu, Bu-Sung Lee, Chuan Heng Foh, and Khin Mi Mi Aung Probabilistic Modeling during Power Estimation for Mixed Polarity Reed-Muller Logic Circuits 1414 Xiang Wang, Ying Lu, Yi Zhang, Zexi Zhao, Tongsheng Xia, Jishun Cui, and Limin Xiao Ant-Colony Based Heuristics to Minimize Power and Delay in the Internet 1419 Shankar Raman, Gaurav Raina, Hanno Hildmann, and Fabrice Saffre Materialization of a Comprehensive Digital City with CityMaker and ArcGIS 1424 Mingzhu Deng, Guangming Liu, and Yuran Hu 
xxi 


iThings/CPSCom 2013 Workshops International Workshop on Biometric Recognition and Its Applications \(BR&A 2013 A New Method of Designing High-Power Electroplating Power Supply 1429 Yihong He and Shuiyong Yu The Study of Fusion Image Block and Sparse Representation Classification in Disguised Face Recognition 1434 Gan Junying, Liu Dan, Zeng Junying, and Tian fengxia SMT Components Model Inspection Based on Characters Image Matching and Verification 1438 Bing Luo, Yuehua Gao, Zhongyu Sun, and Sufang Zhao The Manipulation of Chaotic Synchronization Quality Based on VCSEL with Optical Feedback 1442 Dongzhou Zhong Fast Wavelet Thresholding Algorithms for Face Image Inpainting 1445 Yibin Yu, Jinguo Cao, Yaofang Tang, and JunYing Gan Multispectral Palmprint Recognition Using Score-Level Fusion 1450 Yibin Yu, Yaofang Tang, Jinguo Cao, and JunYing Gan Encryption Node Design in Internet of Things Based on Fingerprint Features and CC2530 1454 Zeng Bohan, Wang Xu, Zhou Kaili, and Zhao Xueyuan Facial Expression Recognition Based on Local Binary Pattern and Gradient Directional Pattern 1458 Wenjin Chu Design of Intelligent Inducing Switch 1463 Yang Zhao and Fengxia Tian International Workshop on Cyber Physical Society Information Processing \(CPSIP 2013 Identify Online Fraudster with Extended Cellular Automata 1467 Ji Li and Yueliang Xiao Harmonization of Cyber-physical Society 1473 Alexander Abramovich and Rashid Khunagov Influence Analyzing and Modeling of High Frequency Forwarding Microblogs 1479 Shangbo Zhou, Wei Wang, Jie Luo, Li Wan, and Yao Zhang Requirement Specification for Transportation Cyber Physical Systems 1486 Lichen Zhang Integration-Oriented Modeling of Cyber-physical Interactive Process 1492 Tao Guan and Gang Yang 
xxii 


Web-of-Things Framework for WeChat 1496 Huang Yitong, Lai Xiaozheng, Dai Bingpei, and Chen Qinyi International Workshop on Cyberspace Security and Information Countermeasures \(CS&IC 2013 Simulation Experiment Research of Cyberspace Confront Effectiveness Evaluation 1501 Yu Zhang, Chen Shansong, and Xie Deping Technology of Situation Awareness Based on Radar Network in Cyberspace 1505 Xun Yang, Wei Shan, and Liu Jia Space Information Security and Cyberspace Defense Technology 1509 Su Kang, Dong Qiaozhong, and Zhu WeiQiang International Workshop on Connected Vehicles and Vehicular Networks \(CV2N 2013 Real-Time Vehicle Route Guidance Based on Connected Vehicles 1512 Daxin Tian, Yong Yuan, Jianshan Zhou, Yunpeng Wang, Guangquan Lu, and Haiying Xia A Novel Two-Timer-Based Broadcast Routing Algorithm for Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks 1518 Song Fang and Tao Luo Research of Vehicle Counting Based on DBSCAN in Video Analysis 1523 Dayang Sun, Binbin Li, and Zhihong Qian A Self-Adaptive V2V Communication System with DSRC 1528 Daxin Tian, Hao Luo, Jianshan Zhou, Yunpeng Wang, Guizhen Yu, and HaiyingXia International Workshop on Electromagnetic Characteristics of Target and Environment \(ECTE 2013 SAR Segmentation and Recognition Based SCM 1533 Liping Hu and Xiaoyu Xing EM Scattering Analysis of Complex Target Coated with Plasma by Conformal SO-FDTD Method 1538 Hao-Chuan Deng, Xiao Wei, and Hong-Cheng Yin SAR RAW Data Simulation by Electromagnetic Computation in Frequency Domain 1542 Xupu Geng, Chunzhu Dong, Hongcheng Yin, and Guoqing Zhu Precession and Structural Parameters Estimation of the Cone-Shaped Target Based on the Profile Length 1545 Jing Huang, Chao Ning, and Zhihe Xiao Terahertz Gaussian Beam Scattering by a Conducting Sphere 1550 Liangsheng Li and Hongcheng Yin Reshaped Window Iterative Super-Resolution Imaging Algorithm 1554 Sheng Li, Liangsheng Li, and Hongcheng Yin Study on the influential factors of radar target RCS in resonance region 1557 Liang Man, Xiao Wei, and Zhihe Xiao 
xxiii 


A New Method for Estimating Radar Profile Length of a Cone Target 1561 Chao Ning, Jing Huang, Chao Gao, and Yong Zhu The Feature Extraction of Time-Frequency Image Based on Frequency Diversity 1566 Jing Sheng, Zhihe Xiao, and Jing Huang Characteristic Study of Target Micro-motion Based on the Wavelet Analysis 1571 Yuguang Tian, Chao Ning, and Xiangyang Zhang The Decorrelation Time Accumulation Restrain Method for Sea Clutter Spike 1576 Xujin Yuan, Yong Chen, Chao Wang, and Hongcheng Yin The Radar Echo Simulation of Moving Targets Based on HRRP 1580 Tao Zhao, Chun-Zhu Dong, Hong-Mei Ren, and Hong-Cheng Yin A Novel Method for Generating Planar Wave Based on Dielectric Gratings 1584 Dai Fei, Cheng Qiping, and Yue Hui Application of Terahertz Technology on RCS Measurement 1587 Wang Xiaobing, Huang Xin, Wu Yajun, Dai Fei, and Li Li Typical Target RCS Reduction Using Structural Radar Absorbing Material 1591 Yongfeng Wang and Kainan Qi International Workshop on Electromagnetic Detection and Identification \(EDI 2013 Error Analysis in Calculating RCS Using GRECO Method 1594 Zhi Hua Cheng, Yong Jun Xie, Xue Mei Wang, Yu Ru Mao, and Xiao Dong Ma Placement Optimization of Vehicular Antenna Using Particle Swarm Optimization 1597 Yu-Ru Mao, Yong-Jun Xie, Zhi-Hua Cheng, Xue-Mei Wang, and Xiao-Dong Ma A Novel Loss Compensated Multipath Power Divider for Frequency Synthesizer 1600 Tongfei Yu, Jungang Miao, Yan Xie, Baohua Yang, and Xianxun Yao An Approach for Extrapolating Far Field Radar Cross-Section from Near Field Measurement 1604 Gao Chao, Yuan Xiaofeng, and Bai Yang Implementation of the Digital Correlation Unit for Synthetic Aperture Interferometric Radiometer 1608 Xianxun Yao, Cheng Zheng, Baohua Yang, Jin Zhang, and Jungang Miao Design Procedures and Considerations of FOD Detection Millimeter-Wave FMCW Radar 1612 Jin Zhang, Cheng Zheng, Baohua Yang, Xianxun Yao, and Jungang Miao Exact Design of a Ka Band H-Plane Inductance Diaphragm Waveguide Band-Pass Filter 1618 Yong Fu, Baohua Yang, and Jungang Miao The Compact Microstrip Bandstop Filter Using Equal Width Open Stub 1622 Bao-Hua Yang, Ghulam Mehdi, Jin Zhang, Tong-fei Yu, Xian-xun Yao, and Jungang Miao 
xxiv 


The Design and Simulation of Hardware Architecture of the Fast and On-Site Assessing System of Scattering Characteristics of Stealth Aircraft Based on Simulink 1626 Hong Tao and Song Dan Second International Workshop on Engineering Pervasive Service Systems \(EPS 2013 Food Image Recognition Using Pervasive Cloud Computing 1631 Pengcheng Duan, Wenshan Wang, Weishan Zhang, Faming Gong, Peiying Zhang and Yuan Rao An Approach of Semantic Similarity by Combining HowNet and Cilin 1638 Peiying Zhang, Zhanshan Zhang, and Weishan Zhang Reconstruction of 3D Maps for 2D Satellite Images 1644 Lianzhang Zhu, Xuexing Zheng, and Pengfei Li Component-Based Cloud Computing Service Architecture for Measurement System 1650 Chao Liu, Qingsong Yu, Tianao Zhang, and Zhongwen Guo Second International Workshop on Energy and Wireless Sensors  \(e-WiSe 2013 Design Optimization of Electromagnetic MEMS Energy Harvester with Serpentine Coil 1656 Yuji Tanaka, Takayuki Fujita, Tatsuya Kotoge, Kohei Yamaguchi, Koji Sonoda Kensuke Kanda, and Kazusuke Maenaka Experimental Study of a Passive Impedance Matching Interface Based on a Centimeter-Size High Inductance Coil for Practically Enhanced Piezoelectric Energy Harvester Performance at Low Frequency 1659 Alessandro Giuliano and Meiling Zhu SPICE Modeling of Piezoelectric Energy Harvesting Device Utilizing Stress Influence 1662 Koji Sonoda, Takayuki Fujita, Kensuke Kanda, Kazusuke Maenaka, Hidenori Katsumura Masaya Tamura, and Hiroshi Kagata Modeling, Validation and Design Analyses of a Piezoelectric Cymbal Transducer for Non-resonant Energy Harvesting 1665 Alice Daniels, Alessandro Giuliano, Meiling Zhu, and Ashutosh Tiwari Towards Energy Autonomy of Wireless Sensors in Aeronautics Applications SMARTER Collaborative Project 1668 Marise Bafleur and Jean-Marie Dilhac 
xxv 


International Workshop on Gas Sensors and Gas-Sensing Platforms \(GS&GSP 2013 A Novel Surface Acoustic Wave Sensor for Optical Lens Surface Dirt Detection 1673 Jiuling Liu, Minghua Liu, Wen Wang, and Shitang He Electrical Sensoring Characteristics of Pseudo-LFE Sensors with Different Single Crystals 1676 Zhitian Zhang, Chao Zhang, Wenyan Wang, Yan Liu, and Tingfeng Ma Investigation of Polymer-Coated Film Bulk Acoustic Wave Resonator for Acetone Vapor Detection 1680 Jingjing Wang and Da Chen Polyaniline-Coated Surface Acoustic Wave Sensor for Humidity Detection 1685 Xiao Xie, Wen Wang, Shitang He, Ning Mu, and Yong Pan Effect of Facets of  Fe2O3 Nanostructures on Gas-Sensing Performance 1688 Jing Wang, Xiaoman Zhang, Weihong Xu, Liang Chen, Xingjiu Huang, and Jinhuai Liu Application and Development Trend of Gas Sensing Technology Based on Absorption Spectroscopy 1692 Zhenzhen Zhao, Fengchun Tian, and Shouqiong Liu Identification of Toxic VOC Pollutants Using FAIMS 1698 Youjiang Liu, Lehua Zhang, Hongwei Wang, Xiaotian Zhang, Chilai Chen Huanqin Wang, Deyi Kong, Mario A. Chavarria, and Juergen Brugger Detection of benzene series by two-dimensional  FAIMS technique 1702 Lehua Zhang, Youjiang Liu, Hongwei Wang, Chilai Chen, Huanqin Wang, Deyi Kong Xiaotian Zhang, Mario Chavarria, and Juergen Brugger Fabrication of Prototypal Nanomechanical Resonator Based on a Single Copper Nanowire 1706 Weihong Xu and Li-Feng Ge The SAW Gas Chromatograph and Its Applications in the Public Security 1710 Shitang He, Jiuling Liu, and Minghua Liu Theory of Lamb Wave Transducers and Their Applications for Gas and Liquid Sensing 1714 Li-Feng Ge Study of the Space Station On-Orbit Leak Detection Based on the Differential Pressure Gas Sensor 1718 Wei Sun, Rongxin Yan, Lichen Sun, Donghui Meng, Zheng Li, Haitao Guo, and Wenbin Li 
xxvi 


International Workshop on Human Body Communications and Biomedical Signal Processing \(HBC&BSP 2013 Pulse-Output Monitor Genetic Circuit of Breast Cancer Testing 1722 Xiang Wang, Guangqian Yuan, Xun Wang, and Zexi Zhao Elderly Gait Analysis and Assessment Based on Body Area Network 1729 Y.D.Xuan, Z. Zhao, Z. Fang, Z.H.Xu, F.M.Sun, D.L.Chen, L.D.Du, Y.M.Qian, H.Y.Hu and L.L.Tian Combined Motion and Region-Based 3D Tracking in Active Depth Image Sequence 1734 Xingyu Wu, Xia Mao, Lijiang Chen, and Angelo Compare Characteristic Optimization of Multilayer Dielectric for the Bloch-Surface-Wave Based Sensor 1740 Shuna Li, Jiansheng Liu, Zheng Zheng, Yuhang Wan, Weijing Kong, Sun Yu, and Shuna Li Facial Expression Recognition Based on t-SNE and AdaboostM2 1744 Jizheng Yi, Xia Mao, Yuli Xue, and Angelo Compare A Design of Security Module to Protect Program Execution in Embedded System 1750 Wang Xiang, Zhao Zexi, Lu Ying, and Zhang Yi Improved P-T Algorithm Applied to a Wearable Integrated Physiological Parameters System 1756 Z.H.Xu, Z. Fang, Z. Zhao, X.X.Chen, D.L.Chen, F.M.Sun, L.D.Du, Y.M.Qian, H.Y.Hui and L.L.Tian Iterative Threshold Selection for TOA Estimation of IR-UWB System 1763 Xiang Wang, Bo Yin, Ying Lu, Bin Xu, Pei Du, and Limin Xiao A Novel Alternative Exponent-Weighted Fuzzy C-Means Algorithm 1767 Renhao Fan, Xiang Wang, and Jordi Madrenas A Wireless ZigBee Router with P-H-T Sensing for Health Monitoring 1773 Z. Fang, F. M. Sun, J. Tan, and Z. Zhao A Whole Integrated System for Detection of Neural Signal and Wireless Transmission 1779 Dang Hua, Qu Ruoyuan, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, and Wang Xinghua Research on the Monitoring and Controlling Model of SIP Network 1784 Liang Zhang, Zhaoxin Zhang, Xu Cui, and Dan Liu Saliency-Based Feature Learning for No-Reference Image Quality Assessment 1790 Zhang Hong, Feng Ren, and Yuan Ding A Compensated Technique for 2.5-GHz Ring-Oscillator-Based PLL used in Wireless Transmission 1795 Dang Hua, Liu Zicheng, Gui Xiaoyan, and Zhong Shunan Speech Synthesis Research Based on EGG 1799 Lijiang Chen, Xia Mao, Pengfei Wei, and Angelo Compare A Temperature Insensitive Ring Oscillator for Low Power RF Communications 1804 Pilong Yang, Tongsheng Xia, Hongge Li, and Xiang Wang 
xxvii 


Low-Noise Biopotential Recording Circuit with Correlated Timeshare Sampling 1810 Hongge Li and Weidong Cao A No-Reference Quality Metric for Blur Image 1813 Zhang Taojia, Zhang Hong, and Yuan Ding Circuit Design of Analog Front-End for Neural Signal Detection 1817 Dang Hua, Zhang Lei, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, and Wang Xinghua A New Pedestrian Detect Method in Crowded Scenes 1820 Hou Xin, Zhang Hong, and Yuan Ding Design and Implementation of a Circuit System for Neural Signal Detection 1825 Dang Hua, Li Xiao, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, Wang Xinghua, and Zhong Shunan Design and Implementation of a CMOS 1Gsps 5bit Flash ADC with Offset Calibration 1829 Li Shiwen, Dang Hua, Gao Peng, Gui Xiaoyan, Chen Zhiming, Wang Xinghua and Zhong Shunan Spike Detection Based on Fractal Dimension 1834 Zhou Jiyang, Xu Shengwei, Lin Nansen, Wang Mixia, and Cai Xinxia A GPU-Accelerated Large-Scale Music Similarity Retrieval Method 1839 Limin Xiao, Yao Zheng, Wenqi Tang, Guangchao Yao, Li Ruan, and Xiang Wang Power Spectral Analysis of Acupoint Bioelectricity 1844 Quan Zhou, Nansen Lin, Shuping Gai, Jingjing Zhang, Lu Zhang, Wentao Shi Renhuan Yu, and Xinxia Caii Compressive Sensing of Neural Action Potentials by Designing Overcomplete Dictionaries 1848 Shuai Zhou, Bowei Dai, Yin Xiang, Shengwei Xu, Bingchen Zhang, Yilin Song Mixia Wang, and Xinxia Cai CloudDVMM: Distributed Virtual Machine Monitor for Cloud Computing 1853 Li Ruan, Jinbin Peng, Limin Xiao, and Xiang Wang Metadata-Intensive I/O Performance Optimization by Merging Read/Write Requests 1859 Li Ruan, Qimeng Wu, Limin Xiao, Ke Xie, and Xiang Wang International Workshop on Machine-to-Machine Communication \(IWMMC 2013 Angle of Arrival Estimation for Passive UHF RFID Tag Backscatter Signal 1865 Meng-Chang Hua, Guo-Chen Peng, Yan-Jun Lai, and Hsin-Chin Liu Mobile IMS Integration of the Internet of Things in Ecosystem 1870 Han-Chuan Hsieh, Jiann-Liang Chen, Ing-Yi Chen, and Sy-Yen Kuo Design of Gateway for Monitoring System in IoT Networks 1876 Ji-De Huang and Han-Chuan Hsieh Dependable Architecture of RFID Middleware on Networked RFID Systems 1881 Yung-Li Hu, Wei-Bing Su, Yennun Huang, Ing-Yi Chen, and Sy-Yen Kuo 
xxviii 


The Design and Implementation of the Front-End Software for the Telemetry and Telecontrol System of Satellite 1885 Zhao Qi and Ma Li Internet of Things for Special Materials Transportation Vehicles 1891 Li Shengguang, Tan Lin, Zhu Yuanshuo, and Zhang Rucai Performance Analysis of COMPASS for the Asia-Pacific Region 1895 Hangyu Huo, Xiaolin Zhang, and Canhui Chen International Workshop on Localization Technology and Location-Based Services \(LTLS 2013 A KNN Indoor Positioning Algorithm That Is Weighted by the Membership of Fuzzy Set 1899 Jiankun Yu and Jianye Liu Building Location-Based Service Based on Social Network API: An Example of Check-In App 1904 Pin-Fan Lee and Shuchih Ernest Chang Prioritizing the Data in the Target-Tracking Wireless Sensor Networks 1910 Dan Xu, Xiaojiang Chen, Xiaoyan Yin, Lvju Wang, Hao Chen, Yuan Zhang, and Dingyi Fang DLF: Target Detection and Localization in Wireless Network 1916 Tianzhang Xing, Dingyi Fang, Xiaojiang Chen, Liqiong Chang, and Yuhui Ren Bandwidth Reservation for Target Tracking in Region-Base Wireless Sensor Networks 1922 Xiaoyan Yin, Dingyi Fang, Xiaojiang Chen, Hao Chen, and Wei Wei Fusion Estimation Based on UKF for Indoor RFID Tracking 1928 Xue-bo Jin International Workshop on New Media and Computer Vision for Smart City \(NMCV4SC 2013 Facile Analysis of Smartphone Comics 1932 Beili Qiu Research on Production of Regional Animation Style Based on Computer Graphic Rendering 1935 Jingjing Chen, Yi Lin, Kexuan Ma, and Yue Liu A Blind Demodulation Algorithm for MFSK Signals Using STFT-Radon-Wavelet Transform 1940 Zhang Guoyi, Qi Xinglong, Zhang Xuzhou, and Lin Caiyong A Novel Method to Remove Eye-Blink Artifacts Based on Correlation Using ICA 1946 Hengsong Sheng and Hongjun Tian Virtual Assembly, Maintenance and Training System Based on the Virtual - Real Fusion Technology 1949 Ning Wang and Yue Qi 
xxix 


International Workshop on Optical Characteristics and Applications \(OC&A 2013 A New Infrared Sensor Model Based on Imaging System Test Parameter 1953 Zheng Liu, Hong-xia Mao, Ying-hong Dai, and Jing-li Wu Mixed Norm-Based Image Restoration Using Neural Network 1957 Yuan-nan Xu, Jing Wang, and Yan-bing Dong Simulation and Analysis of Turbulent Optical Wavefront Based on Zernike Polynomials 1962 Yan Chen, Shu-hua Wang, Yuan-nan Xu, and Yan-bing Dong Study on the Interaction of Optical Field and Transverse Acoustic Mode in Silicon Optical Fibers 1967 Jing Wang, Yuan-nan Xu, and Yan-bing Dong Testing Technology of Infrared Point Source Target Optical Axis 1972 Yue Peng and Hao Lu Human Segmentation in Infrared Videos Using Markov Random Field 1976 Wenjia Yang, Xiaodan Xie, Zhi Chai, and Yapeng Li Third IEEE International Workshop on Sensing, Networking and Computing with Smartphones \(PhoneCom 2013 SmartProbe: A Bottleneck Capacity Estimation Tool for Smartphones 1980 Francesco Disperati, Dario Grassini, Enrico Gregori, Alessandro Improta Luciano Lenzini, Davide Pellegrino, and Nilo Redini CANDIS: Heterogenous Mobile Cloud Framework and Energy Cost-Aware Scheduling 1986 Sebastian Schildt, Felix B¸sching, Enrico Jˆrns, and Lars Wolf An Experimental Study on Wireless Magnetic Communication with Smart Phone Using a MEMS Magnetometer 1992 Jiabo Wang and Xi Chen PhoneJoule: An Energy Management System for Android-Based Smartphones 1996 Xiaojing Liu, Fangwei Ding, Jie Li, Haifeng Liu, Zhuo Yang, Juan Chen, and Feng Xia KeyGraph-Based Social Network Generation for Mobile Context Sharing 2002 Myeong-Chun Lee, Young-Seol Lee, and Sung-Bae Cho Cyber-physical Directory: A Dynamic Visualization of Social Media Data 2007 Jean-Loup Lamothe, James She, and Ming Cheung 
xxx 


International Workshop on Sensor Data Processing and Integration \(SDPI 2013 Capturing, Calculating, and Disseminating Real-Time CO2 Emissions and CO2 Flux Measurements via Twitter in a Smart City 2013 Laurie Butgereit and Alecia Nickless Freshness-Aware Sensor Mashups Based on Data Services 2018 Guiling Wang and Feng Zhang A Method of Sensor Data Services Query in Emergency Management 2024 Xin Chen, Yanbo Han, Yongshan Wei, Feng Zhang, and Yan Wen A Sensory-Data-Hosting Oriented Scheduling Strategy on Virtual Machine 2029 Xiang Li and Yong Jiang International Workshop on Software Engineering for Internet of Things-Based Applications \(SeIoTA 2013 From the Internet of Things to Trusted Apps for Things 2037 Christian Prehofer A Profile for Step Data Transmission Based on Bluetooth Low Energy 2043 Youcong Ni, Sun Cong, Zhao Ting, Peng Ye, Chunyan Wang, and Luo Zeng Exception Handling in Service-Oriented Software: A Survey 2048 Xue Tong, Ying Shi, and Wu Qing On the Application of the Internet of Things in the Field of Medical and Health Care 2053 Fang Hu, Dan Xie, and Shaowu Shen Hierarchical RBAC Model with Alpha Factor in the Water Supply Pipeline Network Information System 2059 Wu Ting, Yuan Tianliang, and Yu Long Modeling Concern of Online Auction System with SA-CDL 2063 Linlin Zhang, Kai Zhao, Zhenhong Jia, and Youcong Ni The Research on Interactive Exhibition Technology of Digital Museum Resources 2067 Ning Wang and Xukun Shen International Workshop on Sensor Networks and Data Communications Security \(SNDCS 2013 Integrity Protection and Attestation of Security Critical Executions on Virtualized Platform in Cloud Computing Environment 2071 Bingyu Zou and Huanguo Zhang A Fuzzing Framework Based on Symbolic Execution and Combinatorial Testing 2076 Jian Yang, Huanguo Zhang, and Jianming Fu Dynamic Knowledge Repository-Based Security Auxiliary System of User Behavior 2081 Fan Yang, Jinxia Wu, Shanyu Tang, and Huanguo Zhang 
xxxi 


Research on a New Mathematic Description for Fingerprint Identification 2085 Zhao Ma, Shanyu Tang, Liping Zhang, Linchen Yu, and Sifa Zhang Robust and Efficient Authentication Protocol Based on Elliptic Curve Cryptography for Smart Grids 2089 Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, Yijing Jiang, and Zhao Ma De Bruijn Graph-Based Whole-Genomic Sequence Assembly Algorithms and Applications 2094 Xiaojun Kang, Shanyu Tang, Yongge Ma, Ruixiang Liu, and Yaping Wang Review of Digital Watermarking for 2D-Vector Map 2098 Jinxia Wu, Fan Yang, and Chonglong Wu Real-Time Covert VoIP Communications over Smart Grids by Using AES-Based Audio Steganography 2102 Yijing Jiang, Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, and Zhangbing Zhou Improving Performance of E-Government System from the User Perspective 2108 Hang Zhang, Sifa Zhang, Muzhou Xiong, and Shanyu Tang ECC-Based Authenticated Key Agreement Protocol with Privacy Protection for VoIP Communications 2114 Shaohui Zhu, Fan Yang, Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, and J. Li Establishment of Security Levels in Trusted Cloud Computing Platforms 2119 Fan Yang, Li Pan, Muzhou Xiong, and Shanyu Tang Efficient Divisible E-Cash in the Standard Model 2123 Jiangxiao Zhang, Zhoujun Li, Hua Guo, and Chang Xu International Workshop on Secure Smart Objects \(SSO 2013 Towards a Modular and Lightweight Model for Android Development Platforms 2129 Mussab Zneika, Hasan Loulou, Fatiha Houacine, and Samia Bouzefrane Towards a Secure Identity Management in Smartphone Environments 2133 Maryline Laurent, Samia Bouzefrane, and Christophe Kiennert Third International Workshop on Trends and Future of Web Science \(TFWS 2013 Extracting Protein Terminologies in Literatures 2136 Jangwon Gim, Donald J. Kim, Myunggwon Hwang, Sa-kwang Song, Do-Heon Jeong and Hanmin Jung Author Name Disambiguation in Technology Trend Analysis Using SVM and Random Forests and Novel Topic Based Features 2141 Sebastian Kastner, Sung-Pil Choi, and Hanmin Jung Research on Quantum-Bit Error Correction Coding for Smart Grid Substation 2145 Xin Miao and Xi Chen 
xxxii 


Fourth International Workshop on Universal User Modeling and Applications \(UUMA 2013 The Research of MEICSP Model through a REST Web Service 2148 Zhilei Huang, Lingyu Xu, and Yang Liu A Text Association Rules Mining Method Based on Concept Algebra 2153 Feiyue Ye, Jiannan Xiong, and Lingyu Xu Research and Application of the Intelligent Flow 2159 Yang Liu, Lingyu Xu, Liang Chen, and Fei Zhong Application of Hybrid MPI+TBB Parallel Programming Model for Traveling Salesman Problem 2164 Jinke Zhu and Qing Li Data Deduplication Cluster Based on Similarity-Locality Approach 2168 Xingyu Zhang and Jian Zhang The Application of the Knowledge Representation Based on Concept Algebra in the Knowledge Management System of Petroleum Enterprise 2173 Hongjie Duan, Shanpeng Wu, and Feiyue Ye A New Reliable Hybrid Algorithm for Shortening the Expanding Range of Interval 2178 Cheng Chen and Yongmei Lei A Novel Data Encryption in HDFS 2183 Thanh Cuong Nguyen, Wenfeng Shen, Jiwei Jiang, and Weimin Xu The Dynamically Efficient Mechanism of HDFS Data Prefetching 2188 Shaochun Wu, Guobing Zou, Honghao Zhu, Xiang Shuai, Liang Chen, and Bofeng Zhang Multi-granularity Recommendation Based on Ontology User Model 2194 Jianxing Zheng, Bofeng Zhang, and Guobing Zou Friend Recommendation Based on the Similarity of Micro-blog User Model 2200 Fan Tang, Bofeng Zhang, Jianxing Zheng, and Yajun Gu The Research of Image Detail Enhancement Algorithm with Laplacian Pyramid 2205 Yanwen Teng, Fuyan Liu, and Ruoyu Wu Information Gain with Weight Based Decision Tree for the Employment Forecasting of Undergraduates 2210 Yue Liu, Lingjie Hu, Fei Yan, and Bofeng Zhang A User Model-Based Resource Scheduling Framework 2214 Guannan Hu, Wenhao Zhu, Kangkang Niu, and Wu Zhang A Novel Method of Adopting Graph Reduction for Resource Management in Parallel Computing Model 2218 Shen Chao and Tong Weiqin Sentiment Classification for Topical Chinese Microblog Based on Sentences' Relations 2221 Kang Wu, Bofeng Zhang, Jianxing Zheng, and Haidong Yao An Anomaly Intrusion Detection Method Based on PageRank Algorithm 2226 Quan Qian, Jianyu Li, Jing Cai, Rui Zhang, and Mingjun Xin 
xxxiii 


Distributed File System and Classification for Small Images 2231 Shaojian Zhuo, Xing Wu, Wu Zhang, Xing Wu, and Wanchun Dou The Possibility of Normal Gait Analysis Based on a Smart Phone for Healthcare 2235 Susu Jiang, Bofeng Zhang, Guobing Zou, and Daming Wei IoT/CPS Demo and Exhibition Mo-Fi: Discovering Human Presence Activity with Smartphones using Non-intrusive Wi-Fi Monitors 2241 Weijun Qin, Hongsong Zhu, Jiadi Zhang, and Bo Li Towards a Pervasive Cloud Computing Based Food Image Recognition 2243 Wenshan Wang, Pengcheng Duan, Weishan Zhang, Faming Gong, Peiying Zhang and Yuan Rao Wireless IoT Platform Based on SDR Technology 2245 Yong Hua Lin, Qing Wang, Jun Song Wang, Ling Shao, and Jianbin Tang Join the Workshop Better with Telepresence Capturer 2247 Pin Tao, Lixin Feng, and Minxi Yu InSciTe Adaptive: R&D Decision Support System for Strategic Foresight 2249 Jangwon Gim, Do-Heon Jeong, Myunggwon Hwang, Sung-Pil Choi, Donald J. Kim Seungwoo Lee, Sa-kwang Song, and Hanmin Jung Author Index 2251 
xxxiv 


FrA6 \226 Privacy and Big Data Visitor Center   Chair Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duchi, John University of California, Berkeley  Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates 1592  Duchi, John C University of California, Berkeley  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Wainwright, Martin J University of California, Berkeley  Differential Privacy, Equilibrium, and Efficient Allocation of Resources 1593  Roth, Aaron University of Pennsylvania  A Bayesian Method for Matching Tw o Similar Graphs without Seeds 1598  Pedarsani, Pedram 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Figueiredo, Daniel R Federal University of Rio de Janeiro  Grossglauser, Matthias 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Privacy as a Coordination Game 1608  Ghosh, Arpita Cornell University  Ligett, Katrina California Institute of Technology  De-Anonymizing Private Data by Matching Statistics 1616  Unnikrishnan, Jayakrishnan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Movahedi Naini, Farid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Robust Subspace Iteration and Privacy-Preserving Spectral Analysis 1624  Hardt, Moritz IBM Research Almaden  Privacy-Utility Tradeoff und er Statistical Uncertainty 1627  Makhdoumi, Ali Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Fawaz, Nadia Technicolor   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a ìkey, valueî list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of ìkey, valueî pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


