Characterization of IP Flows Eligible for Lambda-Connections in Optical Networks Tiago Fioreze Mattijs Oude Wolbers Remco van de Meent Aiko Pras University of Twente Faculty of Electrical Engineering Mathematics and Computer Science EEMCS Department of Design and Analysis of Communication Systems DACS Enschede The Netherlands Email  t.ìoreze m.oudewolbers r.vandemeent a.pras  utwente.nl Abstract The advance on data transmission in optical networks has allowed data forwarding decisions to be taken at multiple levels in the protocol stack e.g at network and optical 
levels With such capability big IP ows can be moved from the network level and switched completely at the optical level over lambda-connections where they get better Quality of Service QoS Meanwhile the regular IP routing level is ofîoaded and can serve smaller ows better With the continuous growing of trafìc on the Internet the selection of big IP ows can become difìcult to be done by using current management approaches conventional management and Generalized Multiprotocol Label Switching GMPLS signaling The University of Twente UT is researching the use of self-management as an alternative to overcome this issue In order to properly identify IP ows eligible 
to be moved to the optical level the characteristics of these ows must be known though In this context this paper analyses some of the characteristics of IP ows eligible to the optical level by observing their size duration throughput and recurrence In this analysis we observe those characteristics while using various deìnitions for an IP ow as well as using different time intervals The main contribution of this paper is to show the behavior of IP ows eligible for lambda-connections Not in the least we also show how this knowledge can be used in our self-management of optical networks approach I I 
NTRODUCTION Advanced optical networks are able to make data forwarding decisions at multiple levels e.g at network and optical levels via multi-service optical switches Such ability enables for instance data packets to be fully transported at optical level lambda switching which bypasses the routing infrastructure network level resulting in a faster delivery of those packets Moreover in conjunction with multiplexing technologies such as Wavelength Division Multiplexing WDM lambdaswitching enables a lambda-connection to act like a virtual circuit Currently a number of network operators are moving towards lambda-switching enabled networks Amongst others 
G  EANT Internet2 4 Clara 5 SURFnet 6 Canarie  and HEAnet 8 Collaboration among se v eral of these operators aims at providing optical interconnect capabilities resulting in an interconnection of their research and education networks By promoting this move towards lambda-switching network operators offer new perspectives for services in optical networks Nowadays IP trafìc from several specialized applications which require huge amounts of bandwidth already proìt from lambda-switched networks capabilities Examples are Grid applications High-Deìnition T ele vision HDTV  broadcasting and the LOF AR project 11 which aims at building an interferometric array of radio telescopes mostly 
distributed over The Netherlands and Germany to allow astronomers to observe objects in space The knowledge of the heavy-hitter 1 behavior 14 15  12 of o ws originated from these applications allo ws network managers to establish lambda-connections in advance for such ows However there may be also other big IP ows in current networks that could also beneìt from being moved to lambda-connections but for some reason e.g the network manager may not be aware of their existence they may not be selected As a consequence these IP ows may not proìt from less delay and jitter as well as plenty of bandwidth found 
at the optical level In order to overcome this issue the University of Twente is investigating the use of self-management in optical networks  18 By self-management we mean the ability of multiservice optical switches to automatically 1 identify which IP ows should be moved to underlying lambda-connections and 2 establish and release the required lambda-connections for these ows In order to automatically identify which ows should be moved to the optical level the optical switches must observe IP ows by considering a set of parameters such as ow volume and duration In this context this paper focuses on the analysis of the behavior of IP ows eligible to be ofîoaded to 
the optical level by characterizing them regarding their size duration throughput and recurrence In addition we observe those characteristics while using various deìnitions for an IP ow which is a subject to be discussed in Subsection V-C as well as using different time intervals 1 According to Mori et al  hea vy-hitter o ws are o ws with a v ery large number of packets which is the same deìnition used in this paper 978-1-4244-2066-7/08/$25.00 ©2008 IEEE 256 


Our analysis can be better divided in the following research questions 1 What are the most suitable deìnitions for ows eligible to be moved to the optical level 2 What are the characteristics of those ows regarding their size duration and throughput 3 Do those ows recur If so how often In order to answer these questions the approach outlined below will be used 1 Study of the literature in order to nd out various approaches to characterize ows 2 Collect measurements from SURFnet6 the Dutch research network In order to determine possible periodicity of eligible ows theses traces consider two weeks of collecting period 3 Deìne a criterion that existing ows must satisfy in order to make them eligible to be moved to the opticallevel We will derive this criterion by discussing the characteristics of lambda-switched enabled networks Subsection III 4 Analysis of the collected traces in order to answer the research questions The remainder of this paper is structured as follows Section II presents the study of the literature with respect to the characteristics of IP ows Section III shows a general review of the characteristics of lambda-switched enabled networks Following that our research work on self-management of optical networks is introduced in Section IV Subsequently Section V shows in more details about the collect and analysis of network traces from SURFnet6 Finally Section VI presents the results of our analysis which allows us to give the answers for our research questions in the concluding Section VII II R ELATED WORK The characterization of big IP ows in large scale optical networks has also been addressed in other research works  15 16 12 From this related w ork we highlight the following two investigations due to some similarities to this paper Papagiannaki et al  focus on the analysis of the v olume size of big IP ows as well as on their historical behavior The authors argue that the ow volume may be very volatile which results in different load values captured at different time intervals Similarly to our investigation presented in this paper the aforementioned authors performed a signiìcant variation in the time intervals 1 5 and 30 minutes and they concluded that the perceived load is the same independent of the time interval used We also proved that in a previous work In spite of the signiìcant variation in the time intervals Papagiannaki et al only used a single deìnition for a ow based on the network preìxes exported by Border Gateway Protocol BGP routers In another related work more similar to ours Lan et al  characterized big o ws by observing their size duration throughput rate and burstiness as well as by examining their correlation Although a considerable amount of ow characteristics were observed and correlated the authors did not use various deìnitions for an IP ow considering only the traditional 5-tuple ow deìnition 2  In a previous work of ours we concluded that there is no substantial variation in the deìnition of a ow in most of the investigated related works As a result of that we decided to perform our analysis by considering various deìnitions for a ow In that analysis we characterized IP o ws eligible to the optical level only with respect to their size while observing the inîuence of using different deìnitions for a ow In addition we collected only 1 day of network traces divided in 30 minutes intervals In a more recent work we e xtended our pre vious investigation by observing the percentage of IP traf c and the amount of IP ows moved to the optical level At the same time we used the same variation in the deìnition of a ow presented in our previous work b ut in contrast we collected 2 weeks of traces divided in different time intervals 5 and 30 minutes In the present paper we make use of the same collected data divided in the same time intervals 5 and 30 minutes as well as the same variation in the deìnition of a ow However we focus on the characteristics of ows eligible for lambdaconnections by observing their size duration throughput and recurrence III O VERVIEW OF LAMBDA SWITCHED ENABLED NETWORKS Lambda-switched enabled networks use lambda switching 3 technology to transfer huge amounts of data via lambdaconnections One example of a lambda-switched network is SURFnet6 which is a h ybrid optical and pack et switching research network developed within the GigaPort-RoN project 23 Although the ability to redirect speciìc wavelengths is a technological advance lambda switching similarly works as traditional routing and switching Optical switches take in a single wavelength of light from a speciìc ber optic strand and recombine it into another strand that is set on a different path Lambda switching relies in multiplexing techniques such as Wavelength Division Multiplexing WDM and T ime Division Multiplexing TDM The WDM technique consists of modulating each wavelength onto a different part of the light spectrum of a single ber The amount of multiplexed wavelengths onto a single ber can divide WDM into Coarse WDM CWDM for bers carrying less than 8 wavelengths and Dense WDM DWDM for those bers carrying from 9 up to 160 wavelengths On its turn the TDM technique 2 5-tuple ow deìnition group packets with same source and destination IP addresses same transport protocol and same transport protocol source and destination port numbers 3 Lambda switching gets its name from   the 11th letter of the Greek alphabet which has been adopted in networking to refer to an individual optical wavelength 257 


consists of dividing a wavelength in time slots in order to send data frames This approach is a basis for the todayês standards used in digital communication Synchronous Optical Networking SONET and Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH SONET which is standardized by the American National Standards Institute ANSI is a set of standards for synchronous data transmission over ber optic networks that are often used for framing and synchronization at the physical layer SONET is based on transmission at speeds of multiples of 51.840 Mbps SDH is the international version of the standard published by the International Telecommunications Union ITU Transmission rates of up to 10 Gbit/s can be achieved in todayês SONET systems and the 40 Gbit/s systems are possible Table I  Optical Payload Overhead Total carrier rate rate rate level Mbps Mbps Mbps OC-1 50.112 1.728 51.840 OC-3 148.608 6.912 155.520 OC-12 601.344 20.736 622.080 OC-24 1.202.208 41.472 1.243.680 OC-48 2.405.376 82.944 2.488.320 OC-192 9.621.504 331.776 9.953.280 OC-768 38.486.016 1.327.104 39.813.120 TABLE I SDH  SONET CLASSIFICATIONS  The highest rate that is commonly deployed is the OC192 or STM-64 circuit which operates at rate of just under 10 Gbit/s Speeds beyond 10 Gbit/s are technically viable and are under evaluation Where ber exhaust is a concern multiple SONET signals can be transported over multiple wavelengths over a single ber by means of Dense Wave Division Multiplexing DWDM Such circuits are the basis for all modern transatlantic cable systems and other long-haul circuits IV S ELF MANAGEMENT OF LAMBDA SWITCHED ENABLED NETWORKS Two approaches are currently used for the management of lambda-connections in lambda-switched enabled networks  con v entional management and GMPLS signaling The former is characterized by a centralized management entity e.g human manager or an automated management process that is in charge of establishing lambda-connections and deciding which IP ows should be moved to the optical level In contrast the latter is characterized by the fact that optical switches coordinate the creation of lambda-connections among themselves after being requested to do that The decision which IP ows should be moved to the optical level however is taken by a centralized entity or by the entities exchanging data ows Both approaches however have an important shortcoming they require human interaction to detect ows and manage lambda-connections This interaction may be slow and errorprone Currently when a lambda-connection is requested within one single domain intra-domain several steps are taken e.g phone calls and emails exchanges between requesters and network domain administrators in order to establish the lambda-connections Hence it may take hours before a desired lambda-connection can be used When requests for a connection span multiple domains inter-domain the lambda-connection provisioning may take even much longer In addition to that several big IP ows eligible for lambdaconnections may somehow be transiting undetected by the managerês eyes contributing therefore to the congestion of current IP networks Our solution to overcome these shortcomings consists of providing self-management capabilities to multi-service optical switches Our self-management solution allows optical switches to be in charge of automatically selecting IP ows to the optical-level as well as creating/releasing lambdaconnections for them Network managers would only be required to conìgure the optical switches in order to deìne parameters for 1 selecting IP ows to be ofîoaded onto lambda-connection and 2 establishing and releasing lambdaconnections for those ows Once conìgured the optical switches cooperatively work by themselves It is worth to mention that the knowledge about the behavior of IP ows eligible for the optical level is important in this conìguration process Figure 1 depicts how our self-management solution looks like IP domain A IP domain C   IP domain B Lambda domain A 1     2 3           Optical level Network level IP router Optical switch   Elephant  ow Lambda connections Signaling message Caption Fig 1 Self-management of lambda-connection in optical networks In Figure 1 IP and optical domains coordinate with one another in order to detect IP ows and manage lambdaconnections Both domains are assumed as already been conìgured by network managers IP routers located at IP domain B are exchanging information e.g ow throughput regarding the existence of a big IP ow transiting between IP domains A and C step 1 Based on this exchanged information and on the conìguration performed by network managers the IP and optical domains make decisions on whether a ow is eligible for a dedicated lambda-connection If the decision is in favor of creating a lambda-connection i.e the IP ow is eligible to be moved to the optical-level the IP routers signal the optical switches in lambda domain A step 2 Then the optical switches coordinate among themselves to create a dedicated lambda-connection to the detected IP ow step 3 From that point on the IP ow is completely switched via a lambda258 


connection in lambda domain A Further information about our self-management solution can be found in 18 V M EASUREMENT AND ANALYSIS SETUP This section presents how network data was collected from SURFnet6 as well as how our analysis was performed A Collecting network information For our analysis we measured the SURFnet6 network for two weeks The core routers  NetFlow-enabled  of SURFnet6 are located in Amsterdam These core routers export information about all network trafìc within SURFnet6 The NetFlow-enabled core routers export NetFlow records to various collectors including ours Since SURFnet6 network is a high-speed network 10Gbps links and up technological issues such as limited processing resources prohibit exporting NetFlow records for all packets To reduce the amount of packets that are represented in NetFlow records packet sampling is used This methodology is also known as Sampled NetFlow it entails selecting 1 packet out of n packets The sampling currently used in SURFnet6 is 1 per 100 packets hence providing NetFlow data representing 1 of the total trafìc in SURFnet6 To facilitate our measurements SURFnet routed a NetFlow stream from two of the core routers to a NetFlow collector located at the University of Twente UT domain This stream was sent via an encrypted tunnel using Zebedee The use of Zebedee was needed since NetFlow does not provide any kind of encryption At the UT domain a machine was setup to dump the incoming NetFlow stream into so-called pcap les using the tcpdump tool W e decided to use tcpdump instead of real NetFlow collector software this way we could store the NetFlow stream in its raw state This allowed us to adjust our analysis without the need for SURFnet to retransmit the data The collecting procedure is depicted in Figure 2  Encrypted NetFlow data Encryped NetFlow data   SURFnet6 core routers University of Twente domain NetFlow collector Filtering process MySQL database Fig 2 The collecting NetFlow data scenario The total amount of data that was received from SURFnet was about 81 GB This includes all UDP IP and pcap overhead e.g packet timestamps The total amount of NetFlow reported bytes was 4.0 TB However since SURFnet uses 1:100 sampling with NetFlow this accounts for some 0.40 PB of the actual network trafìc B Filtering and storing network information Some of the NetFlow elds exported by SURFnet e.g IP ToS were not needed in our analysis The decision was therefore to lter those elds also to decrease the size of the analyzed data Table II shows the NetFlow elds that were considered in our analysis For a complete description of the elds existing in NetFlow version 9 see Field name Description Start time The system uptime at which the rst packet of a ow was switched End time The system uptime at which the last packet of a ow was switched Bytes The number of bytes associated with an IP ow Packets The number of packets associated with an IP ow IPv4 source address The IPv4 source address of a ow IPv4 destination address The IPv4 destination address of a ow L4 source port TCP/UDP source port number L4 destination port TCP/UDP destination port number Source AS The source BGP autonomous system number Destination AS The destination BGP autonomous system number Source Mask The number of contiguous bits in the source address subnet mask Destination Mask The number of contiguous bits in the destination address subnet mask TABLE II T HE CONSIDERED N ET F LOW FIELDS  As a last step before starting our analysis all the considered data was stored into a MySQL database The reason to use MySQL was the familiarity of the authors with the tool and also because MySQL has several aggregate functions e.g AVG MAX MIN and so on that allowed us to perform fast queries C Analyzing the collected data The research analysis consisted of deìning IP ows by using different levels of granularity Figure 3 CAPTION Access Router Host Subnet Autonomous System NetFlow probe BGP router                   NetFlow collector NetFlow data IP  ow IP FLOW DEFINITIONS MySQL database Hst2Hst Sub2Sub 24 Sub2Sub 16 Sub2Sub 8 Sub2Sub NetFlow AS2AS     Filtering process   Filtered NetFlow data HIGH LOW LEVEL OF GRANULARITY App2App Fig 3 The different deìnitions for a ow 259 


The higher granular a ow deìnition is the more details a ow deìnition has regarding the IP packets grouped into ows In addition the higher the level of granularity is the more restrictive the ow deìnition will be when grouping IP packets Our ow deìnitions go from a high level of granularity to a low level of granularity Moreover ows were deìned in this work by using the NetFlow elds listed in Table II The ow deìnitions consider different end-points and have the following descending order of granularity 1 App2App  the 5-tuple ow deìnition 2 HstHst  group of packets with the same source and destination IP addresses 3 Sub2Sub 24  group of packets matching the 24 most signiìcant bits of the source and destination IP addresses 4 Sub2Sub 16  group of packets matching the 16 most signiìcant bits of the source and destination IP addresses 5 Sub2Sub NetFlow  group of packets matching the most signiìcant bits of the source and destination IP addresses reported by BGP-enabled routers 6 AS2AS  group of packets with the same source and destination autonomous systems 7 Sub2Sub 8  group of packets matching the 8 most signiìcant bits of the source and destination IP addresses Given the abovementioned deìnitions for a ow we deìne an evaluation criterion to check whether a certain IP ow is eligible to be moved to the optical level viz Criterion an IP ow is eligible to be moved to the optical level if its bandwidth is equal or bigger than the minimal unit of transmission in SONET networks in a certain time interval average throughput  50.112 Mbit/s Variants were also deìned for this criterion by varying the time interval 5 and 30 minutes The variation in the time interval was used to check if the accuracy of the ow characteristics changes when different time intervals are used With such time intervals the threshold values for a ow to be considered eligible for a lambda-connection are 1.8 and 11 GBytes for 5 and 30 minutes intervals respectively The following ow characteristics were observed  size  the amount of bytes of a ow during the collecting period  duration  the lifetime of a ow during the collecting period  throughput  the average bandwidth consumed by a ow during its duration and  recurrence  The periodicity of a ow during the collecting period Considered ow recurrence periods every 6hs 12hs 24hs 48hs and 168hs VI R ESULTS This section presents the results of our analysis The results shown in this section only consider ows that satisìed our evaluation criterion stated in subsection V-C In addition we also used a conìdence interval of 95 to calculate the conìdence limits of our mean values A Average ow size Figure 4 shows the average size of ows using the various ow deìnitions at different time intervals     Average size 18,39 127,03 209,93 320,04 356,75 476,79 747,97 145,06 822,44 1443,70 1396,14 1625,79 1585,57 1766,44 0,00 500,00 1000,00 1500,00 2000,00 2500,00 3000,00 App2App Hst2Hst Sub2Sub 24 Sub2Sub 16 Sub2Sub NetFlow AS2AS Sub2Sub /8 GBytes 5 minutes 30 minutes Fig 4 Average ow size with 5 and 30 minutes time interval The average ow size with 30 minutes interval is higher than the average ow size with 5 minutes interval as clearly our evaluation criterion with 30 minutes interval is more restrictive and selects only ows that are big in size Note that there is a rather large variability in the ows size when using 30 minutes interval For example we saw huge ows such as 24 TB but also smaller ows such as 12 GB in Sub2Sub 8 ows Five of our deìnitions for a ow present a big average ow size Three of them Sub2Sub 24  Sub2Sub 16  and Sub2Sub 8  can be considered relevant in theory but the other two Sub2Sub NetFlow and AS2AS  can be used in practice B Average ow duration When the total period of collected data 2 weeks is divided in 30 minutes intervals the estimated duration of ows tends to be longer than their real duration Figure 5 Average duration 0,55 3,57 4,89 7,70 8,66 11,42 16,13 3,20 24,48 35,19 34,86 40,89 38,76 38,15 0,00 10,00 20,00 30,00 40,00 50,00 60,00 70,00 App2App Hst2Hst Sub2Sub 24 Sub2Sub 16 Sub2Sub NetFlow AS2AS Sub2Sub /8 Hours 5 minutes 30 minutes Fig 5 Average ow duration with 5 and 30 minutes time interval 260 


In this case the use of smaller time intervals such as 5 minutes reports more precise estimation about the real duration of a ow This can be seen in Figure 5 where the estimation regarding the duration of a ow is much bigger when 30 minutes intervals are used There is also large variability in the ows duration when using 30 minutes interval Regarding the comparison between the duration versus different deìnitions for a ow ow deìnitions with lower level of granularity e.g Sub2Sub NetFlow and AS2AS  tend to aggregate more IP packets into longer continuous periods of time C Average ow throughput The average ow throughput appears reasonable constant independently of the ow deìnition used Figure 6 However when longer time intervals are used the average throughput tends to be bigger as well That happens because only big ows are selected In contrast when smaller time intervals are used not only the big ows are selected but also many small ones which decreases the average throughput     Average throughput 71,68 67,47 68,68 70,36 70,69 72,39 74,07 86,83 78,55 84,15 81,09 87,17 80,79 79,17 0,00 20,00 40,00 60,00 80,00 100,00 120,00 140,00 App2App Hst2Hst Sub2Sub 24 Sub2Sub 16 Sub2Sub NetFlow AS2AS Sub2Sub /8 Mbit/s 5 minutes 30 minutes Fig 6 Average ow throughput with 5 and 30 minutes time interval D Flow recurrence percentage The greatest recurrence percentage found in our analyses was a daily recurrence Figure 7   Percentage of IP flows with daily recurrence 1 8 6 6 3 16 7 0 15 14 13 10 24 16 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 App2App Hst2Hst Sub2Sub /24 Sub2Sub /16 Sub2Sub NetFlow AS2AS Sub2Sub /8 5 minutes 30 minutes Fig 7 Daily recurrence with 5 and 30 minutes time interval The other recurrence periods considered in our analyses showed results smaller than 2 and were purposely omitted in this section due to space constraints The use of 5 minutes interval selects several ows that have a burst behavior and are sporadic in time i.e they occur at irregular period of time On the other hand the 30 minutes interval selects ows that are longer in time and occur regularly e.g backup trafìc As a consequence of that the percentage of ows with a daily recurrence is bigger when long time intervals are used e.g 30 minutes interval In addition to that the use of different deìnitions for a ow has certain inîuence over the recurrence due to the time aggregation Flows that occur in different time intervals may overlap when less granular ow deìnitions are used As a result ows that may be sparse in time e.g App2App  can be grouped into regular occurrence intervals and therefore present a higher percentage of recurrence e.g AS2AS  VII C ONCLUSION This paper presented the characteristics of IP ows eligible to the optical level while using various different deìnitions for a ow The characteristics observed were size duration throughput and recurrence In addition different time intervals were used in order to study whether they have any impact on the eligibility i.e ow characteristics of moving ows to the optical level Based on the analysis performed and in the results obtained we can now answer our research questions 1 What are the most suitable deìnitions for ows eligible to be moved to the optical level In order to ofîoad IP ows that consume considerable amount of resources at the network level onto lambdaconnections and at the same time maximize the use of the high capacity transmission offered by the optical level we look for deìnitions of a ow that are big in size Subsection VI-A and long in duration Subsection VI-B Based on that Sub2Sub NetFlow and AS2AS are the best candidates for ow deìnition in practice On the other hand in theory the Sub2Sub 8 is the best option However in practice this ow deìnition is not feasible as it groups ows coming from non-adjacent networks 2 What are the characteristics of those ows regarding their size duration and throughput The characteristics of ows eligible to be moved to the optical level mostly depend on the ow deìnition used as well as on the restrictiveness of our criterion Subsection V-C The average size and duration of a ow increases when longer time intervals and lower granular ow deìnitions are used In the case of the ow throughput Subsection VI-C its average is constant independent of the ow deìnition used but it varies if different time intervals are used due to the size of the selected ows In average the size of ows eligible to be moved to the optical level varies from small sizes 18 GB to big sizes 1.7 TB The ow duration can be a couple of hours but also several 261 


days Regarding throughput it stays between 60 and 100 Mbit/s 3 Do those ows recur If so how often Flows eligible to the optical level present predominantly a daily basis recurrence as showed in our analyses Subsection VI-D We also found some other ow recurrences e.g weekly backups within SURFNet6 but they reoccurred less than 2 of the considered analysis period 2 weeks Within the daily basis recurrence the use of long time intervals inîuences in the selection of ows that last for long periods and have a regular behavior pattern On the other hand small time intervals select several ows with a burst behavior whose occur in non-regular periods of time This allows concluding that restrictive ow deìnitions e.g App2App  show lesser recurrence percentage than non-restrictive ones e.g AS2AS  The main contribution of this work was to show the characteristics of the ows eligible for lambda-connections The knowledge of such characteristics is particularly important to our research work regarding to the self-management of lambda-connections in optical networks By providing quantiìcation of the observed characteristics to the multi-service optical switches they can automatically take decisions about moving ows to the optical level For instance the optical switches can be conìgured to use a deìnition for a ow such as Sub2Sub NetFlow and AS2AS that groups more IP packets into long and big ows The use of such deìnitions can result in a better performance of both network and optical levels heavy-hitter ows could be ofîoaded from the network level to the optical level where they would get no jitter and plenty of bandwidth Meanwhile routing resources at the network level could be better used by the remaining smaller IP ows A CKNOWLEDGMENTS The research on self-management has been supported by SURFnet in the context of the GigaPort-RoN project and by the EC IST-EMANICS Network of Excellence 26854 The work presented in this paper has also beneìted from collaboration with INRIA Nancy Special thanks to Lisandro Zambenedetti Granville for his help in this paper R EFERENCES  A Leon-Garcia and I W idjaja Communication Networks fundamental concepts and key architectures  2nd ed New York McGraw-Hill Companies 2003  C S R Murthy and M Gurusamy  WDM Optical Networks Concepts Design and Algorithms  Englewood Cliffs Prentice Hall Publishers 2001  G  EANT G  EANT homepage http://www.geant.net accessed on 07/2007  Internet2 Internet2 homepage  http://www internet2.edu accessed on 07/2007  CLARA Latin American Cooperation of Adv anced Netw orks  http://www.redclara.net/en/index.htm accessed on 07/2007  SURFnet SURFnet Home  http://www surfnet.nl/info/en/home.jsp accessed on 07/2007  CAN ARIE CAN ARIE Home  http://www canarie.ca/about/inde x.html accessed on 07/2007  HEAnet HEAnet Home  http://www heanet.ie accessed on 07/2007  R Boutaba W  Golab Y  Iraqi T  Li and B S Arnaud Grid-controlled lightpaths for high performance grid applications The Journal of Grid Computing  vol 1 no 4 pp 387Ö394 2003  G Rouskas Optical layer multicast rationale b uilding blocks and challenges IEEE Network Magazine  vol 17 no 1 pp 60Ö65 2003  LOF AR LOF AR homepage  http://www lof ar or g accessed on 07/2007  T  Mori T  T akine J P an R Ka w ahara M Uchida and S Goto Identifying heavy-hitter ows from sampled ow statistics IEICE Transactions on Communications  vol E90-B no 11 pp 3061  3072 2007  A Soule K Salamatia N T aft R Emilion and K P apagiannaki Flow classiìcation by histograms or how to go on safari in the internet in SIGMETRICS 04/Performance 04 Proceedings of the joint international conference on Measurement and modeling of computer systems  New York NY USA ACM Press 2004 pp 49Ö60  K P apagiannaki N T aft and C Diot Impact of o w dynamics on trafìc engineering design principles in Proceedings of the Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies  2004 pp 2295  2306  J W allerich H Dre ger  A  Feldmann B Krishnamurthy  and W  W illinger A methodology for studying persistency aspects of internet ows ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review  vol 35 no 2 pp 23Ö36 2005  K.-C Lan and J Heidemann  A measurement study of correlations of internet ow characteristics Comput Networks  vol 50 no 1 pp 46Ö62 2006  T  Fioreze and A Pras Using self-management for establishing light paths in optical networks an overview in Poster session proceedings of the 12th EUNICE Open European Summer School 2006 EUNICE 2006  2006 pp 17  20  T  Fioreze R v a n d e Meent and A Pras  A n architecture for the selfmanagement of lambda-connections in hybrid networks in Proceedings of the 13th EUNICE Open European Summer School 2007 EUNICE 2007  2007 pp 141  148  SURFnet SURFnet6 lighpaths mark start of the new Internet area press release http://www.surfnet.nl/info/en/artikel  content.jsp?objectnumber=107197 accessed on 07/2007  T  Fioreze M W olbers R v a n d e Meent and A Pras Of oading IP ows onto lambda-connections in Proceedings of the 18th IFIP/IEEE International Workshop on Distributed Systems Operations and Management DSOM 2007  2007 pp 183  186  Y  Rekhter  T  Li and S Hares A Border Gate w a y Protocol 4 BGP4 Request for Comments 4271 Jan 2006 IETF  T  Fioreze M W olbers R v a n d e Meent and A Pras Finding elephant ows for optical networks in Application session proceedings of the 10th IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management IM 2007  2007 pp 627  640  GigaPort GigaPort homepage  http://www surfnet.nl/info/en accessed on 07/2007  E Hernandez-V alencia Hybrid T ransport Solutions for TDM/Data Networking Services IEEE Communications Magazine  vol 40 no 5 pp 104Ö112 May 2002  G Bernstein B Rajagopalan and D Saha Optical Network Control Architecture Protocols and Standards  Reading Addison Wesley Publishers 2003  Zebedee Zebedee Secure IP tunnel  http://www.winton.org.uk/zebedee accessed on 07/2007  Tcpdump TCPDUMP public repository   http://www tcpdump.or g accessed on 07/2007  B Claise Cisco Systems NetFlo w Services Export V ersion 9  Request for Comments 3954 Oct 2004 IETF 262 


  8 system in EOC software devel opment.  One screen is used to display the main page of the Monitor and Control System GUI, and the other screen shows the GUI query page and xterm consoles of other nodes in the EOC.  Figure 6 is an example shot of the main GUI page. In the page, either an existing experiment name or a new experiment name is selected for executing operati ons.  There are 11 tables on the page which display live messages respectively received from DINET nodes.  The message display is started by selecting the \223start/update\224 button and temporarily paused by  selecting the \223Pause\224 button.  Moreover, all messages received and stored in the database can be dumped into a text file as the \223save\224 button is selected and a file name is entered. The top and middle of the page shows the network topology which is updated dynamically as the network connectivity changes  Figure 6 \226 Monitor and Control System GUI main page Figure 7 shows an example of the GUI query page.  In order to query the messages stored in the database, an experiment name is specified along with \(optionally\essage type message source node, number of messages, message creation time, and then the \223query\224 button is clicked.  The messages stored in the data which meet the query criterion are shown on the table of the query page, and those resultant messages can also be dumped into a text file by clicking the \223save\224 button and entering a file name.  The table content and topology display on both web GUI page are locally and dynamically updated without interfering with the display of the main page by the use of Ajax and Java servlet techniques 


  9 Figure 7 \226 Monitor and Control System GUI query page 4  DINET  R ESULTS  The Experiment Operations Center allowed real-time visibility into and analysis of DTN behavior in a deep space system during the DINET experiment.  With the results gathered from the operations cen ter software, an analysis was performed on the experime nt outcome characterizing the overall performance of DTN From a broad perspective, the experiment was a success in that it proved the ION software capable of space mission operation and raised the technology readiness level to that of a tested and flown software package.  The DTN concept proved capable of automatically re-transmitting missing or corrupt data without flight team intervention, specifically demonstrated during several small unplanned communications outages at DSN stations.  DTN management actions were requi red to update the ION clock aboard EPOXI on a semiweekly basis to compensate for a drifting spacecraft clock, as well as insert new routes after an unplanned power outage across the EOC network Experiment analysis yielded DTN performance benchmarks in link utilization, prioritizati on, node storage and routing For all passes with sufficient data in the transmission queue DINET maintained a link utilization rate over 90%, even when introducing artificial link errors by dropping approximately every 32 nd LTP segment.  Received data analysis confirmed that higher priority information maintained an advantage over lower priority information and also that this advantag e increased as link capacity diminished \(due to the artificial data loss on the link\.  The node storage utilization benc hmark provided proof that node storage usage stabilized over the course of the experiment, approaching steadystate.  An analysis of network traversal showed that data was efficiently moved through different paths as dictated by the ION routing algorithm when the network topology changed. This demonstrated the advantages of the routing automation afforded by the ION routing protocol 5  C ONCLUSIONS  This paper has briefly described the JPL Deep Impact Network \(DINET\ay/Disruption Networking \(DTN technology experiment, intended to increase the technical readiness DTN for space missions and supporting ground and space-based relay infrastruct ure.  This represents the first deep space implementation of DTN in flight and ground software, and paves the way for future space networks.  DINET demonstrated the Interplanetary Overlay Network \(ION\mplementation of DTN, which incorporates the Bundle Protocol and LTP retransmission protocol.  We have described the DINET Experiment Operations Center \(EOC its functions in accomplishing this experiment.  The DINET EOC starts all ION processes experiment data sources, stat us message receiver processes and display processes.  The ION-based Monitor and Control System is an innovative, intranet-based software application which receives status messages and displays live results from the DINET network.  With this Monitor and Control application, the ION software and protocol diagnostic messages issued by network nodes are collected, analyzed stored into a database in real-time.  This application also provides a web interface for viewing the data in real-time and for interactive database queries 6  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology and the Nationa l Aeronautics and Space Administration 


  10 R EFERENCES   Selected Areas in Com m unications, IEEE Journal on Volume 26, Issue 5, June 2008. The eight papers in this special issue focus on delay and disruption tolerant wireless communication   Draft  C C S DS SIS-DTN Green B ook v0.2 \(5 Sept em ber 2008 DTN/Draft%20Documents/SISDTN%20Green%20Book_v0.2.docx   V Cerf. et al., Delay To lerant Network Architecture IETF RFC 4838, informational, April 2007   Del a y Tol e rant  Net worki ng R e search Group \(DTNR G wiki: http://www.dtnrg.org/wiki/Home  S. Burleigh, \223Delay-Toler ant Networking for Space Flight Operations: Design and Development,\224 paper AIAA2008-3221, SpaceOps, 12-16 May 2008, Heidelberg Germany  K. Scot t and S B u rl ei gh 223B undl e Prot ocol  Speci fi cat i on,\224 RFC5050, experimental, November 2007   M  R a m a das S. B u rl ei gh, and S. Farrel l 223Li c kl i d er Transmission Protocol \226 Specification,\224 RFC 5326 experimental, September 2008  223Asy nchronous M e ssage Servi ce,\224 C C SDS Draft  Recommended Standard \(Red Book\CSDS 735.1-R-2 July 2008 


  11 B IOGRAPHY  J. Leigh Torgerson  leads  development and operation of spacecraft systems, with emphasis on end-to-end communications system technology.  He has over 25 years of experience in team management, aerospace system design, digital & RF electronic system integration and flight test.  He has been with Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1992, and is currently a member of the Communications Networks Group.  He obtained an M.S. in Aeronautical System Engineering from the University of West Florida, and an B.S. in Engineering, EE/CS emphasis from UCLA    Loren Clare  is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He obtained the Ph.D. in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983. His research interests include wireless communications protocols, self-organizing systems, network systems design, modeling and analysis, and distributed control systems. Prior to joining JPL in May 2000, he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center, where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks, satellite networking, and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation  Shin-Ywan \(Cindy  is a senior member of the Communications Networks Group at JPL. She has over 20 years experience in technology development system analysis, and software engineering in the fields of document image processing mission scenario and operation analysis, and telecommunications. Cindy\222s recent work supports the development of Monitor and Control Systems for DTN experiments, link budget analysis for the Constellation program\222s DSIL SCaN simulation/emulation and TFPC Telecom Forecaster Predictor C, and Remote Asynchronous Message Service \(RAMS\ for the AMS protocol.  She has a B.S. in Electronics Engineering from National ChiaoTung University, Taiwan, and M.S and Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of California, Irvine      Joshua Schoolcraft  is an engineer in the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He currently runs the Protocol Technology Laboratory and coordinates software configuration and development on projects involving protocol characterization and DTN He obtained a B.S. in electrical engineering and computer engineering \(with a CS minor\ from the University of Maine in 2005 and is currently a part-time graduate student in Aeronautical & Astronautical engineering at Stanford University  


  12  


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


