Geographically Targeted Information Dissemination System GeoTIDeS Ranga Ramanujan Ben Burnett Clint Sanders and John Wu Architecture Technology Corporation 9971 Valley View Road Eden Prairie MN 55344 rangagatcorp.com Abstract This paper presents the architecture of a middleware platform called GeoTIDeS Geographically Targeted Information Dissemination System that enables the implementation of location based wireless applications The platform implements the following capabilities that can be accessed by applications through the GeoTIDeS application programming interface 
API 1 A geographically targeted information multicast service that enables an application to send data directed at mobile appliances situated within a specified geographic area 2 A range-restricted information dissemination service that delivers data to mobile appliances within a given range of the information disseminator 3 A banner-in-the-sky service that allows information to be posted within a specified geographic region The posted information is then delivered to mobile appliances entering the region GeoTIDeS is 
implemented as a network service that runs over IP Any Internet-connected wireless or wired device can use GeoTIDeS services to send or receive geographically targeted information No changes to the existing network infrastructure are required to deploy GeoTIDeS'2 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 2 GEoTIDES ARCHITECTURE  2 3 GEoTIDES PROTOTYPE  4 4 CONCLUSIONS 4 REFERENCES 8 BIOGRAPHY 8 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  9.........9 1 INTRODUCTION 
GeoTIDeS Geographically Targeted Information Dissemination System is a middleware platform implemented by Architecture Technology Corporation ATC as part of a DoD-sponsored R&D effort It is designed to enable location based services in areas ranging from telematics emergency services and situation awareness for the military By providing an API for 3rd party developers of location-aware wireless applications it 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1543 Version 6 
Updated January 10 2008 facilitates rapid and cost-effective development of such application software GeoTIDES exploits the widespread availability of low-cost location determination devices such as GPS cards that can be embedded within mobile wireless appliances e.g PDAs cell phones to pin-point their current position It uses such location information provided by a wireless information appliance to implement new application-level protocols that support the following capabilities that can be accessed 
by applications via the GeoTIDeS API 1 Geographically targeted information multicast service that enables an application to send data directed at mobile appliances situated within a specified geographic area 2 Range-restricted information dissemination service that delivers data to mobile appliances within a given range of the information disseminator 3 Banner-in-the-sky service that allows information to be posted within a specified geographic region The posted information is then delivered to mobile appliances entering the region GeoTIDeS is 
implemented as a network service that runs over IP It requires no changes to the Internet infrastructure Any Internet-connected wireless or wired device can use GeoTIDeS services to send or receive geographically targeted information No changes to the existing network infrastructure are required to deploy GeoTIDeS All geographically targeted information is transmitted as standard IP packets over the network There are no changes to the IP packet format Furthermore there is no 
information in the data packets that would reveal the geographic area to which the information is being delivered GeoTIDeS employs an implementation architecture that allows the middleware service to scale to millions of wireless clients Furthermore the service is designed to protect the anonymity of the receivers of geographically targeted information That is the actual location and the identity of the wireless receiver e.g IP address of the receiver is hidden from the sender of the information 1 


2 GEoTIDES ARCHITECTURE GeoTIDeS software is composed of two main elements i.e GeoHost Services GHost and the Geographic Name Service GNS that are described below GeoHost Services GHost This is software that runs on a host or information appliance that may be wired or wireless mobile or stationary It supports the API for applications running on the hosts to send or receive geographically targeted information It also interfaces with a position location device e.g a GPS card on the host to determine its position and provide this information to the GeoTIDes server the mobile clients of the registered surrogates The GNS can be queried by any sender in the network to obtain the full directory information down to the level of the IP address of a surrogate serving a mobile node in a geographic region of interest Messages sent to a surrogate by a sender are relayed by that surrogate to the mobile node that is associated with it A sender that wishes to send geographically addressed messages first sends a query to the GNS specifying the target polygon defining the destination of the message The GNS responds with the IP addresses of all the registered surrogates for mobile nodes within the destination polygonal area There are two major alternatives for how the sender could proceed from here Second Level GNS  First Level GNS  Figure 1 An Example GNS Tree Distributed Geographic Name Service GNS These network resident servers that may be collocated or geographically distributed implement the mechanisms that serve to route messages from the senders to receivers of geographically targeted messages Each mobile host is associated with a surrogate or proxy resident on the fixed network which intercepts and processes all messages to and from the mobile node Mobile nodes periodically report their GPS-derived location information to their surrogates in the fixed IP network Each surrogate in turn relays this information to the GNS server covering the region where its mobile client is currently located The surrogate also registers its IP address with the GNS The GNS therefore maintains a mapping between the IP addresses of surrogates and the GPS derived location of 1 It could send a set of unicast messages to all surrogates corresponding to the IP addresses returned by the GNS 2 It could request all the surrogates in the region of interest to join a temporary multicast group for the geographic area specified in the message This avoids sending the same message across the same link several times Thus after the set of relevant surrogates is determined by the GNS the temporary multicast group is established and all packets with that multicast address are sent on that multicast address The sender can determine which of these two mechanisms to use at run-time depending upon the number of nodes in the destination group and the number of packets to be transmitted 2 


The distributed GNS servers are organized as a logical tree Figure 1 shows an example of such a GNS tree Each GNS at the lowest level of the tree i.e first level GNS covers a defined local geographic region It maintains the mapping between the IP addresses and GPS-derived location data of all the registered surrogates that have mobile nodes located in that region It also maintains a pointer i.e IP address of its parent GNS in the GNS tree Each GNS at the second level is associated with a geographic region that covers the union of the regions associated with the level 1 GNSs that are its children Each GNS at the second level maintains the IP addresses of all level 1 GNSs whose regions fall within the boundaries of the larger region covered by the level 2 GNS It also maintains a pointer to its parent in the GNS tree Similarly each GNS at level 3 maintains pointers to all level 2 GNSs whose coverage falls within its region of interest as well as a pointer to the parent GNS in the tree Note that in this scheme only the level 1 GNSs actually maintain the mapping between the IP addresses of surrogates and the location of their associated mobile nodes GNSs at higher levels only maintain the IP addresses of GNSs that are either their parent or children in the GNS tree A sender that wishes to send a message to a certain geographic area first invokes the locate mobiles 0 routine implemented by the GHost at that machine The parameters of the routine define the geographic region of interest ROI The GHost then sends a message to the local level 1 GNS requesting the IP addresses of all the mobiles the are within the ROI The level 1 GNS determines whether the ROI intersects with its coverage region If so it looks up its database and returns the list of registered mobiles that fall within the ROI specified in the request If the ROI is not fully contained within the coverage region of the level 1 GNS it relays the request to its level 2 parent Now the level 2 GNS checks to determine whether any of its other children cover any part of the ROI If so it relays the request to all those children whose coverage region intersects at least partially with the ROI If not the request is relayed to its level 3 parent This process continues until the request reaches the all the level 1 GNSs whose coverage region intersects with the ROI at least partially Each of these GNSs then responds with the IP addresses of mobiles in its region that fall within the ROI Once the locate mobile call to the GHost returns with a list of the IP address of mobiles in the ROI the sender has a number of alternatives for disseminating data to these mobile nodes as described earlier  e.g via unicast or multicast Since delivery of messages is performed using IP addresses a surrogate for a mobile client may continue receiving the unicast or multicast messages sent by the sender even after its mobile client leaves the ROI if session times are long To overcome this problem each message from the sender identifies the destination ROI When a surrogate receives a message with an ROI that is inconsistent with the current location of its mobile client it simply discards the message If the message is multicast then the surrogate unregisters itself from the multicast address In the case of unicast messages the surrogate sends a message back to the sender notifying it that its mobile client no longer is located in the ROI The sender can then drop this surrogate from the receiver list maintained by it How does a surrogate for a mobile node or mobile client find the level 1 GNS to register itself The surrogate uses the directory service such as the IETF defined Service Location Protocol 1 to determine a GNS at any level within its network domain It then sends a find GNS query to this local GNS providing it with the location of its mobile client This message is then routed through the tree of GNSs in a similar fashion to that described above to the GNS covering the region of the mobile client's location This GNS responds to the find GNS with its IP address and its coverage region The surrogate uses this information to register its mobile client It also determines when its client moves out of the coverage region of the level 1 GNS When this happens it uses the process described above to find the new level 1 GNS that it must register with As noted earlier each surrogate periodically sends a registration message containing its IP address and the current GPS derived location of its mobile client to the appropriate level 1 GNS The level 1 GNS monitors the entries of registered surrogates in its database to determine the last time that each surrogate checked in Any surrogate that has not sent a registration message within a threshold interval is discarded from the database How does a mobile that enters a region after the start of a session join the ongoing session This is accomplished as follows The sender periodically checks the membership list of the ROI If a new mobile becomes eligible to receive the data transmitted by the sender then the sender adds it to its list of receivers using one of the two mechanisms described earlier i.e unicast or multicast We also developed the design of GeoTIDeS software that implements a location dependent information pull service i.e a location dependent URL service where the Web page that is delivered to the user for a specified URL is dependent on the location of the user Suppose situational awareness SA data needed in tactical environments is distributed across several geographically separated information dissemination servers IDSs where each IDS only contains SA data relevant to its region of the battlespace In this case GeoTIDeS allows a warfighter to use a single common URL to access the SA web servers say www.SA.mil irrespective of where the warfighter is located GeoTIDeS would resolve the URL to the nearest situational awareness server containing information needed by the warfighter 3 


This is accomplished as follows Every SA server registers with the GNS serving its region providing it with its URL i.e www.SA.mil and its IP address The GNS thus maintains a database of location dependent URLs within its region and the IP addresses of the associated web servers When a mobile requests a URL its surrogate sends a locate-web serverO request to the local GNS specifying the URL and the mobile's GPS-derived location When the GNS receives such a request it examines its URL database to determine whether the request can be satisfied If so it responds with the IP address of the web server associated with the URL Otherwise it relays the request to its level 2 parent The latter transmits the request to all its other children and waits for their response If one or more children respond with addresses of web servers it selects the addressthat is closest in terms of physical location to the requester and sends it to the requesting surrogate Otherwise if none of its children find an appropriate web server the request is relayed to the level 3 parent GNS of the level 2 GNS and so on 3 GEoTIDES PROTOTYPE We implemented a full-scale prototype of GeoTIDeS and demonstrated its capabilities through laboratory experiments The following paragraphs present the components of the GeoTIDeS prototype visible to the operators and users of the system i.e the GNS Manager graphical user interface GUI the Information Dissemination Manager and the Mobile Client GNS Manager The GNS Manager GUI provides an operator with a single-point interface to monitor the distributed servers that make up the GNS The GUI depicts the relationships between the executing GNS servers as a hierarchical tree By clicking on a node within the tree the operator can determine the children if any associated with this GNS node as well as the region of the geographical space managed by the selected node Figures 2 through 4 show several screen shots of the GNS manager GUI where each screenshot depicts a different selection of a node within the GNS tree The highlighted region within the map shown on each of these figures represents the region managed by the node selected on that figure The GUI enables the user to select areas within the map to which messages may be sent Figure 5 shows several rectangular regions selected by the user After selecting one or more regions of interest within a map the user can compose messages to be sent to the selected regions Figure 6 shows the GUI that enables such message composition In addition to text the user may associate prerecorded audio files to the message Mobile Client The mobile client used for the demonstrations was an iPAQ equipped with a dual-card sleeve One slot in the sleeve was used for a wireless WAN card and another slot was used for a GPS card shown in Figures 7 Figure 8 shows the GUI implemented on the iPAQ to display messages received by the mobile device As shown in the figure the message display screen is split into two windows The upper window displays currently active messages in the region where the client is located When the client leaves the region associated with a geographically targeted message the message in marked as inactive and moved to the lower window It remains there until it is deleted by the user 4 CONCLUSIONS GeoTIDeS exploits the widespread availability of low-cost GPS cards for mobile computers that make mobile user location information easily available It uses GPS-based location information provided by user equipment to implement new application-level protocols to support capabilities such as geographically targeted multicasts of information range-restricted information dissemination and location-dependent access to distributed information services Such a capability will enable future situational awareness systems where intelligence and tactical sensor data must be exploited to provide customized locationspecific information to mobile users In terms of related work in the area of location-based network services Imielinski and Navas 2 proposed three alternative schemes for implementing GPS-based routing However unlike GeoTIDeS all these schemes require changes to the network infrastructure e.g changes to IP's unicast and multicast routing protocols and changes to DNS Information Dissemination Manager IDM The Information Dissemination Manager IDM is a application that was built over GeoTIDeS to demonstrate the capabilities of the technology It provides a map-based GUI for a user to compose and send geographically targeted messages Figure 5 shows the GUI depicting a map of a region of interest in Washington DC where one of the technology demonstrations was performed 4 


243.197X002 andChld 5 Fiue3 N aae 1 h C Show reionmaagd y hid1 43:70 


Figuire 4 GNS Manager GUI Shows legion lmanaged by Child 2 243.158:7002 Figtre 5 Map-Based GUTI for Information Disseinnation Manager IDM 6 


Figu e 6 Message Composition lIterifce fbo IDM Fi;gutre 7 iAQ-based GeoTIDeS Mobile Client 7 


REFERENCES 1 E Guttman C Perkins J Veizades and M Day Service Location Protocol Version 2 Internet Engineering Task Force RFC 2608 June 1999 2 T Imielinski and J Navas GPS-Based Addressing and Routing IETF RFC 2009 Experimental Category Nov 1996 BIOGRAPHY Dr Ranga Ramanujan received his PhDEE from the University of Iowa in 1985 Between 1985 and 1989 he was employed at Honeywell Systems and Research Center where he led research efforts in distributed computing and fault tolerance for military applications He joined ATC in 1989 and currently serves as its Chief Technology Officer He has served as the PI of over 15 research efforts sponsored by agencies such as DARPA the US Army the U.S Navy U.S Air Force U.S Coast Guard NSF and NASA Dr Ramanujan led the research effort to develop the Satellite Data Exchange SDX secure messaging system for the US Coast Guard Following successful productization this system is currently operational on the USCG fleet of small and medium cutters He was one of the architects of ATC's TCP-Tactical solution for the DARPA Control Plane program that yielded dramatic performance improvements over TCP Dr Ramanujan has served as the PI for three different DARPA programs in the networking area that produced successful technology prototypes some of which have been leverages by other efforts at ATC He has served on the program committees of the 2002 ACM Workshop on Wireless Security the 1997 International Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems the 1996 and 1997 Heterogeneous Computing Workshops and the 1987 Real Time Systems Symposium Dr Ramanujan has published over 30 technical papers in the areas of computer networks and distributed computing E  Ben Burnett is an R&D engineer at Architecture Technology Corporation ATC He received his BSCS from Iowa State University in 1999 Since joining ATC in 2000 Mr Burnett has focused on developing distributed network monitoring visualization and test tools research and development in distributed agent systems advancing wireless data communications development of custom and COTS software into commercial products and software design and implementation Mr Burnett has two patents and another pending for his work in distributed network monitoring and recombination and his work with network traffic and flow mimicking using events and triggers Clint Sanders is an R&D engineer at Architecture Technology Corporation ATC He obtained the BS degree in Computer Engineering from Iowa State University in 1999 Since joining ATC in 2000 Mr Sanders has focused on application development for networking solutions which include TCP stack alterations creating application servers proxies and routers He implemented key components of the GeoTIDeS prototype system presented in this paper 8 


L f l Dr John Wu received his Ph.D from the University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne U K in 1990 He has a over 17years of experience in jjg~~~Jj the research and development of distributed system to provide anautomatedand applications intelligent systems databases and Intemnet technologies At ATC Dr Wu has led several R&D efforts including the development of an Agent-Based Active Network ABAN system to provide an automated and intelligent information dissemination service for more effective communications under rapidly changing warfighting environments ABAN aims to enhance the Army's Future Combat Systems with seamless flow of secure context-aware and personally adapted information wherever and whenever the warfighter needs it The success of the project was recognized with a nomination for the Army's 2005 SBIR Quality Award ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Kevin Millikin and Sanjukta Roy made key contributions to the implementation of the GeoTIDeS prototype Their contributions are gratefully acknowledged 9 


The second state describes the need to impose any operational restrictions which are mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Hence No means no operational restrictions while a Yes means that some operational restrictions are necessary Finally the third state describes whether some emergency or abnormal operation is applied which is mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Here Yes means that emergency or abnormal operation must be applied while No means that an emergency or abnormal procedure is not necessary Both criteria are related to the failure and function characteristics which are given as input to the ETA One presumption is that only failure effects with possible operational or economic consequences according to MSG-3 should be included in the analysis The failure characteristics also include the rate of occurrence which will affect the outcome of the analysis The characteristics of the failure will also advice whether the occurrence of failure will be recognized by the crew or not As standard design practice if the failure has any operational consequences it should be evident to the crew The combination of different events Yes or No within the states of the two criteria operational phase and operating capability will create different scenarios that in turn will determine the ultimate operational consequences Based on the possible combination of events 25 different scenarios were identified which will lead to the following classification of consequences no operational consequence airborne and/or ground delays and emergency or abnormal operation Out of the 25 different scenarios that were identified there are six scenarios with no operational consequences One of these scenarios is when the failure never occurs i.e scenario 25 The other five scenarios where no operational consequences occur are where the failure's associated maintenance is deferrable and there are no necessary operational or abnormal restrictions i.e scenarios 2 6 11 16 and 21 Hence the only difference between these five scenarios is the operational phase where the failure occurs There are 14 event scenarios where the consequences are some sort of delay i.e scenarios 1 3 4 5 8 9 10 13 14 15 18 19 20 and 24 Out of these there are five scenarios where the operational consequences are manifested as only airborne delay i.e scenarios 1 5 10 15 and 20 These scenarios are related to the occurrence of a failure that is related to deferrable items but that requires some operational restrictions Abnormal procedures contribute to operational consequences in scenarios 7 12 17 and 22 All these scenarios are related to failures with non-deferrable items that have some sort of operational restrictions and necessitates emergency and abnormal procedures by the flight crew The main difference between the scenarios is the phase of flight where the failure occurs In scenarios 7 and 12 the failure occurs prior to dispatch or during takeoff respectively The two scenarios 17 failure occurs during cruise and 22 failure occurs during approach and landing result in diversion Also there are situations such as scenario 23 in which the aircraft is in landing mode and the occurrence of a sudden failure in some systems may reduce the capability of the aircraft to complete the landing mission Hence the pilot may perform a touch and go 8 ILLUSTRATION OF THE PROPOSED ETA In order to illustrate the proposed ETA and to demonstrate the application of the constructed event tree an Avionic Ventilation System AVS of a hypothetical twin-engine single aisle aircraft has been selected The associated data were gathered from particular airlines and then altered for confidentiality reasons to represent typical scenarios Avionic Ventilation System A VS The AVS is used to cool different avionics equipment AVS comprises different components such as computer blower extract fan sensors filter and valves One of the most important functions of the AVS computer is to control the AVS system's valves to open and close and fans to turn on or off The skin air inlet valve is installed in the fuselage skin to provide an outdoor air supply gateway for AVS on the ground see Figure 5 Figure 5 on the ground the valve is 10 _10 Fan Skin air inlet valve schematic diagram This valve is electrically operated but i Filter Air flow Valve can be manually overridden When the aircraft is 


fully open and in flight the valve is fully closed One of the functional failures which might occur with an AVS system could be defined as Skin Air Inlet Valve fails to close at take-off power setting Taking off with the Skin Air Inlet valve open instead of closed damages the avionics ventilation ducts and may have potential effects on both cabin pressurization and degradation of avionics ventilation performance If the valve is not function properly at take-off power setting prior to take-off a warning message appears on the cockpit display unit so that cockpit crew will be aware of the fault prior to take-off Therefore the conditional probability of detection of failure prior to take-off is 100 see Figure 6 This failure has no catastrophic or safety effect on the aircraft and its occupants However in order to avoid associated effect on cabin pressurization issues and to protect damage to the system the MEL advises that the valve should be closed manually on the ground and the related electrical connection should be isolated This is an immediate action which is required to fly with an inoperative Skin Air Inlet Valve within a certain limited time without any operational restrictions see Figure 6 Therefore the aircraft has to be returned to the ramp/gate so that the maintenance crew can perform these actions before further dispatch Hence this failure is classified as an evident failure with operational effect Based on the proposed ETA the only possible scenario is number 4 which results in the operational consequence Ground delay at departure see Figure 6 In order to quantify the rate at which operational consequences occur the frequency of failure failure rate or intensity should be multiplied by both the conditional probability of occurrence of this failure in different operational phases states 1.1 to 1.5 and the conditional probability of adverse affect of the failure on the operation capability states 2.1 to 2.3 This may be expressed as in Equation 1 The failure rate of Skin air inlet valve fails to close at take-N 1 2 3 4 S inariret vaKefailstD dcs 1 2 1 iec.lity  eah phaseofflight 1.4 Cuse 15 lArcax h  Ii adrg 2 Efedof failueon opering apability 2.1 Ddab 22 23 1 p e U6rng aFerabcn abromni restricicrn prcecdre Ria ID Takedfl 0imb takeoff Yeslow_ 260\260\260 Oocunof failure during 0 ca 0 a 0 Oper.iornl Cancieia m Ar1xmeclde I Nbcperaicnnipat I A rbcrnecblay Grardcalja 4 daeLre I G I_dddajdt"I I Figure 6 Proposed ETA of the hypothetical AVS system K Annual cost of scenario per aircraft Aircraft/year Rate of occurrence of each operational consequence scenario K Rate of occurrencj of scenario per FH Failure rate X Unit cost of ground delay al departure per FH x Conditional probability of states in criteria 1 x Conditional probability of states in criteria 2 t Duration Average annua2 X of delay X utilization X J 0 J 0 FH/yearJ 2 Quantity Per Aircraft QPA 2 11 11 1.2 1.3 


off power setting is 1 12e-5 per Flight Hour FH based on historical data The conditional probability of states in criteria 1 prior to take-off is estimated to 100 as the failure will be evident to the crew prior to take-off The conditional probability of states in criteria 2 nondeferrable with no operational restriction is estimated to 100 as the failure is not deferrable and it does not impose any operational restrictions as the aircraft is not allowed to take-off with the failure present according to the MEL Hence the rate of occurrence of scenario number 4 for AVS is 1.12e 5 per FH X 100 X I100  1.12e 5 per FH The outcome of the ETA on the hypothetical AVS system and the applicable values for each probability which has been gathered from historical data and expert opinions is shown in Figure 6 In order to estimate the cost of associated consequences standard average cost can be used for different operational consequences which normally are provided by the manufacturer or airlines For this specific case i.e scenario number 4 the assumptions made are displayed in Table 1 as advised by experienced practitioners Table 1 Cost Figures of some Type of Operational Consequences Consequences Magnitude Cost Long more than 30 min 70 min Ground delay Short less than 30 min 30 min Long more than 30 min 58 min Airborne delay Short less than 30 min 28 min The annual total cost for each consequence scenario for whole aircraft could be estimated in accordance with Equation 2 Hence the annual cost of scenario number 4 considering 3,000 FH of utilization per year is estimated to 1.12e per FH x 60 min/60 lhr delay time x 70 min x 60 min  420 hr x 3,000 FH year x QPA 1 The proposed methodology could also be adapted as a support for cost-effectiveness analysis of candidate maintenance tasks during the development of aircraft maintenance programs However the analysis documentation also constitutes an important part of the knowledge base which is also useful for design operation and maintenance of the aircraft In order to implement the proposed methodology and achieve valuable results accurate and sufficient data and information are needed as input data for the analysis This information is related to the technical system and its reliability e.g failure modes and their frequency of occurrence and maintainability performances e.g Built-in Test Equipment modularization and Line Replaceable Units Other information that is needed is related to aircraft operation and associated procedures given in formal documents such as the MEL FM FCOM and QRH Also information about the maintenance support performance is necessary The operational consequences and the probabilities of different events included in the proposed event tree can be quantified by the aid of historical data or expert judgments However an exact quantification and assessment of the cost of operational consequences of failures is a challenge due to a long list of influencing factors and inadequacy of required information One example is the challenge to determine a good estimation of the failure rate which requires the collection of data from the world fleet This collection of data is difficult since removal data do not necessarily imply a failure or since subsequent test level has difficulties to duplicate test results achieved at preceding test levels i.e no fault found events Another reason is that even if there is a failure it is not always possible to link the reported failure to the functional failure or failure mode identified in the MSG-3 analysis When there is a lack of historical data expert judgments can be a good source of information To support an effective extraction of the field experts knowledge there are systematic methodologies available e.g pair wise comparison 14.14 aircraft/year 9 DISCUSSION The scenario descriptions using the event trees give a detailed picture of the possible operational consequences of different failures in aircraft system during operation Hence the proposed methodology is considered as a valuable support in the assessment of the operational consequences of failures 12 


REFERENCES 1 IEC Electropedia International Electrotechnical Vocabulary IEV Chapter 191 Dependability and Quality of Service Web site http://www.electropedia.org 2 Anthony M Smith and Glenn R Hinchcliffe Reliability Centered Maintenance Oxford Elsevier 2004 3 Albert H.C Tsang Condition-Based Maintenance tools and Decision-Making Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering 1\(3 3-17 1995 4 Balbir S Dhilion Maintainability Maintenance and Reliability for Engineers New York Taylor  Francis 2006 5 NAVAIR NAVAIR 00-25-403 Guidelines for the Naval Aviation Reliability-Centered Maintenance Process Patuxent River Naval Air Systems Command 2005 6 DoD MIL-STD-2173\(AS Reliability-Centered Maintenance Requirements for Naval Aircraft Weapons Systems and Support Equipment Washington DC Department of Defense 1986 7 Transport Canada TP 13850 Scheduled Maintenance Instruction Development Process Manual Ottawa Transport Canada 2003 8 John Moubray Reliability-Centered Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann 1997 Maintenance 9 F Stanly Nowlan and Howard F Heap ReliabilityCentered Maintenance Springfield National Technical Information Service 1978 10 William G Sulivan Elin M Wicks and James T Luxhoj Engineering Economy New Jersey Pearson Education 2006 11 Raimond R Hoch A Practical Application of Reliability Centered Maintenance 1990 Joint ASME/IEEE Power Generation Conference Proceedings October 21-25 1990 12 Marvin Rausand and Arnljot H0yland System Reliability Theory Model Statistical Method and Application New Jersey John Wiley 2004 13 IEC IEC 60300-3-11 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 11 Reliability Centred Maintenance Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1999 14 Marc Sachon and M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Delay and Safety in Airline Maintenance Reliability Engineering and System Safety 67\(3 301-309 March 2000 15 Ove Nja and Thor Erik N0kland Risk Analysis A Tool to Support Decision Making But Who Cares About the Decisions European Safety and Reliability Conference Proceedings June 27-30 2005 16 Per Anders Akersten Condition Monitoring and Risk and Reliability Analysis 2006 Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management Conference Proceedings June 12-15 2006 17 Marvin Rausand and J0m Vatn Reliability Centered Maintenance  Risk and Reliability in Marine Technology conference Rotterdam Balkeman 1998 18 M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Fault Trees vs Event Trees in Reliability Analysis Risk Analysis 4\(3 177-186 September 1984 19 CCPS Guidelines for Hazard Evaluation Procedures with Worked Examples New York Center for Chemical Process Safety 1992 20 Mohammad Modarres What Every Engineer Should Know about Reliability and Risk Analysis New York Marcel Dekker 1993 21 IEC IEC 60300-3-9 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 9 Risk Analysis of Technological Systems Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1995 BIOGRAPHIES Alireza Ahmadi has more than 10 years experience as an aircraft licenced engineer and manager of maintenance planning and control department He is currently a PhD candidate at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology Sweden His research topic is related to the cost-effectiveness of aircraft scheduled maintenance tasks Peter Soderholm is a senior lecturer at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology His research topics are risk dependability and eMaintenance mainly within aviation He received his MSc degree in Mechanical Engineering in 2001 and PhD in 13 


Operation and Maintenance Engineering in 2005 both from Lulea University of Technology Lulea Sweden ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank Mr Christian Delmas Director of Maintenance Program Engineering Airbus S.A.S who gave us the opportunity to start this collaboration and Mr Jeremie Neveux and Mr Raphael Laforgue who identified the need to investigate this subject and for their time and useful comments given on drafts of this paper The authors also would like to thank Professor Uday Kumar Lule'a University of Technology for his valuable discussion and guidance 14 


  15 R EFERENCES    http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema   eb Orchestration with BPEL\224 http://www.idealliance.org/pa pers/dx_xml03 papers/0406-01/04-06-01.html  Hi bernat e hom e page www.hibernate.org   Al l a rd, Dan and Hut c herson, Joe, \223C om m uni cat i ons Across Complex Space Networks\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 1-8, 2008  W e b Servi ce Defi ni t i on Language http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl   B a uer, C h ri st i a n and Ki ng Javi n Java Persi s t e nce for Hibernate, New York: Manning Publications, 2007 7] \223Software Agents An Overview\224 http://www.sce.carleton.ca/netm anage/docs/AgentsOverview ao.html  e thodology.org  http://www.riaspot.com artic les/entry/What-is-Ajax  http://www.json.org 11 h ttp to m cat.ap ach e.o r g   12] http://java.sun com/products/servlet  http://www.w3.org/Sty le/CSS    B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 17 years.   He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a message-based ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontologybased distributed communications     Dr. Charles D \(Chad\ards, Jr received his A.B degree in Physics from Princeton University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Physics from the Calif ornia Institute of Technology in 1984.  Since then he has worked at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he currently serves as Manager of the Mars Network Office and as Chief Telecommunications Engineer for the Mars Exploration Program, leading the development of a dedicated orbiting infrastructure at Mars providing essential telecommunications and navi gation capabilities in support of Mars exploration.  Prior to that he managed the Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Office, overseeing a broad program of research and technology development in support of NASA\222s unique capabilities in deep space communications and mission operations.  Earlier in his career, Dr. Edwards worked in the Tracking Systems and Applications section at JPL where he carried out research on novel new radio tracking techniques in support of deep space navigation, planetary science, and radio astronomy  


  16  


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


