Proceedings of IC-NIDC2010 CMFS: COMPRESSED METADATA FILE SYSTEM FOR HYBRID STORAGE Taizhong Quan, Dylan Yeo, Youjip Won coolquan| valkun| yjwon}@ece.hanyang.ac.kr  Abstract Storage CLASS Memory \(SCM\xt generation of solid-state, nonvolatile memory. It combines the benefits of a DRAM, such as high performance and robustness, with the low cost of conventional harddisk. The biggest difference between SCM and NAND FLASH is that SCM can be accessed in bytegranularity and access speed is much faster. PRAM Ferro-electric RAM MRAM \(Magnetic RAM\RAM \(Resistive RAM and Solid Electrolyte Freitas et al are all SCM. The advent of SCM may possibly to make big improvement in storage landscape. In this work, we develop a file system - CMFS \(compress metadata file system\ used on SCM and NAND flash hierarchical storage environment. We make two contributions in this work. First, we store in-memory data in the SCM to ov ercome the drawback of the current log-structured file system that the mount time dramatically increases as the scale of NAND flash increases. Compared to YAFFS, we show that this file system requires only minimal time for mounting. Second, co nsidering the physical characteristics of SCM, its scale is an order of magnitude smaller and the cost is much higher than the current storage device, we just store some part of the in-memory data to reduce the requirement size of the SCM. The capacity of SCM which is required by CMFS is much smaller than the current file system for hybrid storage. Compare with the MiNVFS the capacity requirement by CMFS is reduced to 14 Keywords Non-Volatile RAM, Flash memory File system, Metadata 1 Introduction The SCM technologies such as FRAM \(Ferroelectric Magnetic RAM\PRAM \(Phase change RAM\re now concerned as the next generation memory technology. These SCM technologies provide better characteristics that are low power consumption, byte-addressability, nonvolatility, and in-place upd ate. These characteristic of SCM will bring various changes to operating systems. In particular, it is expected that SCM will substitute NAND flash memory in area of embedded systems. Although NAND flash memory can be read or written in page size, a unit of erase operation is a block that consists of many pages. This inconsistency of operation unit makes it hard to implement effective storage system. SCM technologies promise effective storage system that has high performance and reliability. Nevertheless SCM is not used because of low CPM \(Cost per MB\Instead of substituting NAND flash memory combination of NAND flash and SCM promises cost-effectiveness and higher performance In this paper, we propose an efficient file system CMFS \(compress metadata file system\ using on SCM-NAND flash hybrid structure storage. We store metadata in SCM for higher performance. In order to make our approach cost-effective, we reduce the required SCM space for metadata extremely by excluding unnecessary part in the metadata and compressing the necessary part. The CMFS realized efficient real-time update and it also can reduce the mount time sharply when an unclean shutdown happened 2 Related work  Many researches to improve performance by using SCM have focused on disk-based file systems However late researches are exploiting file system for SCM and NAND flash memory  is a disk persistent-RAM hy bri d file system. It improves a performance by storing metadata and frequently accessed small file in persistent RAM. HeRMES m o re than 50% of the file systems accesses are metadata accesses. They use SCM as metadata storage and  SCM  as  s t ora ge of metadata in flash file system. FRASH [101 develops a  opy-On-Mount 1 technique to speed up the mount procedure. It stores in-memory data and ondisk data in SCM and copy the in-memory data into main memory during mount phase. It regularly synchronizes in-memory data to SCM. But when system crash, FRASH has to read the on-disk structure region of SCM scans NAND Flash storage and reconstructs the in-memory data structure region in the SCM. MiNVFS a intains all the metadata in SCM, while storing all file data in Flash memory The paper presents experimental results that show 1030 ____________________ _______________ 978-1-4244-6 853 9 10/$26.00 2010 IEEE    


how much performance gains can be possible by exploiting SCM. Compared to YAFFS, a typical Flash file system, MiNVFS requires only minimal time for mounting. MiNVFS outperforms YAFFS by an average of around 40 0% in terms of the total execution time for the realistic workloads. PFFS stores metadata of file systems in PRAM and construct double indirect index similar to ext2. They improve file system performance and consider wearout of PRAM. MRAMFS o m p ressed version to SCM due to the low capacity and relatively high cost of SCM. It compared several compress algorithms. And it shows that LZO is suitable for large size of files  These file systems store all the metadata in the SCM to improve performance. However they have the same problem - a huge size of SCM is requested and the SCM is very expensive. We cant add enough SCM for a big size NAND flash. For a 1G NAND flash, the spare area is 32MB. A 1000G NAND flash needs 32G SCM. It is too huge to use. And in order to enhance the performance some file systems need much more than that. For exam shows that MiNVFS needs 315KB of SCM when a single 32MB file fills up the 32MB Flash memory In the worst case, however, the SCM requirement is around 18MB when MiNVFS fills Flash memory with 65,536 files that are 512B in size. In the worse case, an 8G NAND flash needs more than 4G SCM It is too expensive to add a 4G SCM to an 8G NAND flash 3 Motivation SCM technologies provide better characteristics that are low power consumption, byte-addressability non-volatility, and in-place upd ate. The advent of SCM may possibly bring about drastic changes to the system software landscape. When SCM is efficiently exploited in the system software layer, we expect that the system performance can be significantly improved. NAND flash is erased and programmed in large blocks. The random access time is long but compare to SCM, the cost per bit is low. NAND flash is used as ma in storage in many places In this research, we want to use SCM-NAND flash hybrid structure to improve the performance of the total file system. According to the character of SCM We stored some run time states and object information which are stored in the page spare areas of NAND flash and used in the remounting procedure. It can accelerate the remounting speed  Some hybrid file systems store in-memory data in the SCM, but they need huge size of SCM and they dont supply an efficient crash recovery method when the system shut down unexpectedly. Some of them should scan all the area of NAND flash to remount the file system when the system crash unexpectedly. It seems not very efficient  Table1: Characters of file systems  Table 1 shows the different characters between CMFS with other 3 file systems. MiNVFS, FRASH  memory data in the SCM to speed up the mount time. But compare to MiNVFS and CMFS only stores som e part of the in-memory metadata. MRAMFS stores on-disk metadata and small size Files in the SCM Although it uses compress algorithm to reduce the requirement capacity of SCM, it still requires huge size of SCM. And compare with the 3 file systems the size of SCM required by CMFS is the smallest And in CMFS, we develop an efficient synchronization algorithm 4 Data in SCM  In CMFS, 3 different data structures are used to store the runtime states and object information which are needed when we mount CMFS on the NAND flash We call them SCM metadata in this paper. They are CMFS_validity, CMFS_device, and CMFS_object In order to reduce the size of SCM, we minimize the data structures. We only select some part of inmemory data which is used on the remounting and stored in the data pages spare area. CMFS_validity stores the mark information which shows whether the SCM is valid. CMFS_device: stores statistical information used in mount time such as the number of erased blocks, the number of files awaiting deletion, the block number which is being allocating and so on. The block number which is being allocating will be used when the SCM metadata is invalid to use. We describe it in section 5. It also stores the block Information about the NAND flash Such as the number of pages is used in the block block states etc. We compressed the CMFS_device  to reduce t h e requirem ent size of the SCM. CMFS_object: contains the information about files and directories in the NAND flash. Such as the relationship between others files or directories, file type and the states of the file. If it is a file type object, it also contains the information about chunk offset We partition the SCM metadata into two parts fixed-size metadata an d variable-size metadata CMFS_validity, CMFS_device have the fixed size 103 1 


We store them in a continuous area and they are compressed algorit hm  There is  variable number of CMFS_object. And the size of CMFS_object is not fixed. We store them separately and connected them with pointer. The structures of SCM metadata are showed in Figure 1. Figure 2\(a shows a logical hierarchy of directories and files. In Figure 2\(b\hows how this would be represented in CMFS. As depicted in Figure 2\(a\here are the root directory, 2 subdirectories, and a file-a.txt and the dotted line link the file \(b.txt\added to the directory named usr. Each directory or file is represented by a CMFS_object. Every file or subdirectory belongs to a directory will be linked after the directorys CMFS_object and the one which is most recently added in will be just after the directorys CMFS_object. In Figure 2\(a\var, usr and a.txt all belongs to the root directory. So they are all linked after the root directory. And the a.txt file is belongs to the usr so it is linked by the usr directorys CMFS_object. If the b.txt file is added to the usr directory, the position is showed with the dotted line. All the in memory objects have a pointer to their SCM CMFS_object, so we can find them easily This kind of data structure has some advantages First they are very similar with the on-memory data structure. So it is easy to translate the SCM metadata to in-memory data structure to make mounting efficiently. Second using link list is flexible to update the metadata. Adding and deleting an object is easy. When we add a new object we just find the SCM position of its directory and linked it just after the parent directory 5 SCM metadata update In CMFS, we want to use the SCM metadata to speed up the remounting procedure. But there is a problem. The SSD are written or updated frequently When a new chuck is written to the SSD, the SCM metadata will become invalid In order to keep the SCM metadata valid to use, the SCM metadata needs to be updated regularly. Considering the update overhead, the SCM metadata cant be updated every time when every chunk is written in the SSD. In our system, we flush the cache buffer in to the SSD every 5 seconds, the metad ata in the SCM also be refresh at that time. Figure 3 shows the procedure of update When a SSD device is mounted, we will check whether there is any SCM metadata in the SCM. If there is none, we will build it after the device is mounted. After that it will be regularly updated. In Figure 3\(a\re 3 main parts. Part \(a\he outdate SCM metadata. Part b shows the object information need to be updated. Part c is the new SCM metadata. In CMFS, in order to reduce the updating overhead, only the changed part of SCM metadata will be refreshed. Part b shows a link list data structure. It is an in-memory data structure When an objects information is refreshed in the SSD, the objectId, object type and the SCM metadata position will be stored in the modify_object data structure.  According to the modify object list we rewrite the CMFS_object information into th e SCM. Part \(c refreshed SCM metadata. The CMFS_device are refreshed every time. Sometimes there are different SCM metadata in the SCM we use the CMFS_validity to verify which one is valid to use In Figure 3\(a\object 262,300 are written to the SSD. So in part c we can see the new SCM metadata are written in to the SCM. And then as the Figure 3\(b\SCM metadata will replace the old one and the old metadata space will be released In order to prevent the SCM metadata being destroyed when an unexpected system crash we should keep all the data in part \(a\nd part \(c\n the SCM until the update is finished. It will be described in section 5  6 Experiment In our paper, we suggest CMFS \(compress metadata file system\We implemented CMFS on embedded system with Marvell PXA320 core, 128 SDRAM and 128MB large block NAND flash memory. We divided NAND flash into 2 MTD partition and we use one partition of them for experiment Figure 3:Real time update 1032 


6.1 SCM Space requirement for CMFS CMFS uses SCM as an extension of storage to maintain certain metadata to speed up the mount procedure. In this section we analyze the amount of SCM needed by CMFS in the real world. In CMFS the data structure for the metadata in SCM consists of the CMFS_validity, CMFS_device and CMFS_object Figure 5 shows the variety of SCM space requirement by different file sizes. We assume that there is only one file with different file size in the NAND flash. We can find that the demanded capacity of SCM increased as the file size increasing The capacity of SCM increases 36byte when the file increases 32KB. For a 32MB file it needs 44KB SCM. The capacity of SCM needed by CMFS is nearly 14% of MiNVFS 6.2 Mount time In this subsection, we compare the mount time for YAFFS and CMFS. In YAFFS, the metadata is scattered in Flash memory spare area. On mount time, all the spare area is scanned to build inmemory data structure. With the capacity of NAND flash grows, mount time will proportionally increase In CMFS, however, we store the metadata in the SCM as described before; hence, it greatly reduces the mount time. There are two different mount procedures. When the metad ata stored in the SCM is valid, we use the metadata to rebuild the in-memory data structure on mount time. On the other hand, we should recovery the SCM metadata first, and then remount the device  Figure 6 shows the mount time for YAFFS and CMFS with different percentage of Flash memory utilization. Compare with YAFFS, CMFS significantly reduces the mount time. And with the utilization of the NAND flash increases, it increases slowly. For YAFFS, mount time increases linearly In our device YAFFS mount time increase nearly 1 second when the u tilization increase 10MB  Figure 7: Update time Figure 7 shows the time which is consumed by the update procedure. It is not related with the utilization  of NAND flash. In figure 7, we shows the update time with different NAND flash size need to be updated. We show the update size from 1MB to 12MB. In our device we find that 12MB is almost the biggest update size in 5 second. So the maximum update time in our system is about 13ms. It means that in CMFS we should sacrifice 2.6 performance to update the SCM metadata 7 Conclusion Due to SCM has the non-volatility of storage and fast access speed of DRAM, SCM is likely to be used in various purpose. However, relatively low capacity and expensive cost is an obstacle for use of SCM. In this work, we handled these disadvantages of SCM with compaction and compression. We efficiently solve the slow speed of mount operation in log structured file system. Compare to MINFS the SCM space requirement is reduced to 14   Acknowledgement This work was supported by the Korea Science and Engineering Foundation \(KOSEF\nt funded by R0A-20090083128 Reference  Aleph One C o m p any he Yet Anot her Flash Filing System \(YAFFS\http://www.yaffs.net  D Woodhous e FFS The Journaling Fl ash Figure 5: Capacity of SCM Figure 6: mount time 1033 


File System5, Proceeding of the Ottawa Linux Symposium, RedHat inc. 2001  R. Card T. Ts'o, and S. Tweedie esign and Implementation of the Second Extended Filesystem,5 The HyperNews Linux KHG  Discussion,http:/www.linux doc.org, 1999  A.-I.A Wang et al  onquest: Better Performance through a Disk/Persistent-RAM Hybrid File System 5 Proceedings 2002 USENIX Ann. Technical Conf June 2002  Natha n K. E d el Dee pa Tuteja  Etha n L   Miller , Scott A. Brandt,  RAMFS: A Compressing File System for Non-Volatile RAM5, Proceedings of the The IEEE Computer Society's 12th Annual International Symposium on Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation of Computer and Telecommunications Systems MASCOTS'04 2004  Ethan L. Mille r Scott A. B r andt, Darrell D. E Long eRMES: High-Performance Reliable MRAM-Enabled Storage5, Proceedings of the Eighth Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems, p.95, May 20-22, 2001  Eun-ki Kim Hyungjong Shin, Byung-gil Jeon Seohhee Han, Jaemin Jung, Youjip Won  RASH: Hierarchical File System for FRAM and Flash5, ICCSA 2007, Malaysia, pp. 238251, 2007  In Hwa n Doh, J o ngm oo C h oi Donghee  Lee Sam H. Noh xploiting non-volatile RAM to enhance flash file system performance 5  Proceedings of the 7th ACM & IEEE international conference on Embedded software 2007  Youngwoo Park Seung-Ho Lim Chul  Lee Kyu Ho Park FFS: a scalable flash memory file system for the hybrid architecture of phasechange RAM and NAND flash5, Proceedings of the 2008 ACM symposium on Applied computing, 2008  Jung, J. and W o n Y   and Kim, E. and Shin, H and Jeon, B, 5 FRASH: Exploiting Storage Class Memory in Hybrid File System for Hierarchical Storage  RAMTRON Datasheet  Markus F  X.J Obe rhum er. L Z O data compression library http ://www.oberhumer.com/opensource 1034 


Table 7. Respondents wireless computer network knowledge  Response Not knowledgeable Slightly knowledgeable Knowledgeable Very knowledgeable An expert No response Number 11 79 41 29 7 0 Percent 6.6 47.3 24.6 17.4 4.2% 0.0  Table 8 displays the results of the responses to question 10 \(age of wireless network\lightly over 80% of survey respondents indicated that their home wireless computer networks had been running for over one year.  Less than 15% indicated that their wireless networks had been running for less than one year  Table 8. Age of wireless network  Response Less than 6 months Between 6 months and 1 year Between 1 year and 3 years More than 3 years I do not know No response Number 10 14 77 60 3 3 Percent 6.0 8.4 46.1 35.9 1.8 1.8  Table 9 displays the results of the responses to question 11 \(importance of Internet access compared to other household technology expenses such as landline phone, cellular phone, cable/satellite TV Internet access is apparently very important to the set of survey respondents, as 97.6% indicated that compared to other household technology expenses landline phone, cellular phone, cable/satellite TV etc.\ey considered it to be Important or Very important Perhaps even more telling about household technology expenses is that absolutely no survey respondents indicated that Internet access was Not important or Slightly important   Table 9. Importance of Internet access relative to other technology expenses  Response Not important Slightly important Average Important Very important No response Number 0 0 4 29 134 0 Percent 0.0 0.0 2.4% 17.4% 80.2 0.0  Table 10 displays the results of the responses to question 12 \(is the respondent willing to leave their home wireless computer network unsecured Slightly less than half of the survey respondents indicated that they would be willing to leave their home wireless computer network unsecured in return for some type of compensation if doing so would not violate any law.  The responses to this question get at the heart of creating a wireless city by using the wireless networks in the homes of city residents  Table 10. Respondents willing to leave wireless network unsecured in return for compensation  Response Yes No No response Number 78 89 0 Percent 46.7% 53.3 0.0  Table 11 displays the results of the responses to question 13 \(what respondents would require in return for leaving their wireless network unsecured Note that respondents were allowed to choose multiple responses for this question; therefore no percentages were calculated for this question.  Also table 11 does not show that a total of 72 respondents gave some type of response to this question.  It is apparent that respondents would be willing to leave their home wireless computer networks open for a variety of different types of compensation.  Note that 38 of the 168 \(22.6%\ondents would be willing to accept free Internet access elsewhere in return for giving others Internet access at their own home which is the essence of the franchising business model discussed above  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Table 11. Respondent s requirement in return for leaving wireless network unsecured  Response reduction in one of my city services bills tax write-off cash free Internet access at wireless hotspots elsewhere I would not need anything in return Other please specify Number 44 31 48 38 17 13  Table 12 displays the results of the responses to question 15 \(amount of cash/month that respondents would require in return for leaving their wireless network unsecured\or those respondents who would accept cash compensation in return for leaving their home wireless computer network unsecured, 2/3 would accept $25 or less while 3/4 would accept $30 or less  Table 12. Amount of cash/month required by respondent in return for leaving network unsecured  Response 5$ 10$ 15$ 20$ 25$ 30$ 35$ 40$ 45$ 50$ or more Number 2 11 2 9 9 4 1 2 1 8 Percent 4.1% 22.4% 4.1% 18.4% 18.4% 8.2 2.0 4.1 2.0 16.3 Cumulative Percent 4.1% 26.5% 30.6% 49.0% 67.3% 75.5% 77.6% 81.6% 83.7 100.0  5.2. Qualitative analysis results  Responses to questions 5, 8, 14, and 16 were openended and so were not amenable to direct quantitative analysis.  Summaries of these open-ended responses are presented in this section.  Those responses given by more than one respondent are indicated as such Question 5 \(what type of other wireless Internet access do you have\ulted in two or more responses each of   public airports: NOT the Apple-branded wireless router   AT&T Uverse   Blackberry   Caf   Cellphone   Freeloading on neighbor \(5 responses out of 62   iPhone   Starbucks   Public transit: free WiFi on city buses   Work \(14 responses out of 62 Question 8 \(specific reason why network is not secured\ulted in two or more responses each of   Didn t seem necessary/important/didn t care/not worth the trouble   I use a Mac and am not worried about viruses And the following singular responses   Don't b-cast the net name and restrict by MAC addr   Had to reboot system and haven't secured again   Haven't taken time to secure. Have secured HW   I don't care if others use it   I have both secured and unsecured. Wanna share   It was secured; a network card had a problem   Signal is too weak to access from outside  Question 14 \(what other inducement would the respondent require in return for leaving their home wireless computer network unsecured\ resulted in the following responses   ability to limit bandwidth on free-net; security   access to a community network that would work   BART tickets   Basically any cooperative venture would be fine   Depending on the cause the use is for   faster connection   guarantee that traffic wouldn't be burdensome   I support free speech.  'net is designed 2 share   It depends greatly on the reason for the request   no loss of speed or service reliability   no reduction in security   security of all data and communication   security preventing others getting to my computers Question 16 \(other comments about the survey responses ranged from BORING and useless and Nobody in their right mind would leave their wireless network open to strangers to Good luck with your research and I'm intrigued about the thesis Interested in learning what you discover Many respondents voiced their concern about security indicating that they would consider leaving their home Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


wireless networks unsecured, but only if they had a guarantee that it would not jeopardize their own personal data Some respondents left more detailed responses such as As it turns out, I work at a small wireless networking company.  I have long wanted to set up a series of neighborhood wide access points sharing the costs network among our neighbors and reducing our overall bills to access the internet.  This could be done with security and minimal expense and time, but I haven't had even that much time to set it up  and from another respondent whose neighbor apparently did what the previous respondent was considering My home internet service is wireless, too.  We have an internet entrepreneur in the 'hood who started by syndicating a T1 line to half a dozen neighbors.  He has expanded beyond the neighbors and now has a $3MM/year business.  I pay $49/mo for a very fast connection that arrives at my house wirelessly   6. Conclusion  Results of the survey show numerous surprising outcomes.  With regard to those hoping to implement some type of community wireless network or similarly based business model, there appears to be some hope that residents are or can be persuaded to let others use their home wireless computer networks Perhaps most surprising relevant to the community wireless network model is that, of the 40 respondents who did not secure their home networks, 6 directly stated that they wanted to share their Internet access with outsiders.  An additional 3 respondents stated this in their free-form response to the question.  This implies that many residents would not require any compensation at all for leaving their network open to support a community wireless network.  Also, almost 50% of all respondents indicated that they would be willing to leave their network open for some type of compensation if it were legal to do so.  Of those who would require cash compensation for leaving their network open, 75% would require $30 or less/month to do so.  This also bodes well for communities who are searching for inexpensive ways to become wireless cities   7. Limitations and future research Certainly the results of this research project are limited by the number of respondents and the geographic location in which the survey was implemented.  Researchers in other locations may well obtain different results due to the economic technological, or geographic vagaries of their respondents.  The research is also limited due to the process by which respondents completed the survey While all known mailing addresses in the survey area were canvassed in soliciting respondents to complete the on-line survey, no control was implemented over those who actually chose to complete the on-line survey.  There is therefore an unknown effect on the research results of the actual population of survey responders There are also several possible useful avenues for future research in this area.  One obvious direction to pursue is to do a more detailed statistical analysis to determine if there are patterns within the data.  That is there may be hidden or underlying relationships that would yield more valuable in sights into correlations in the dataset.  For example, there may be indications about the type of resident who is more or less likely to leave their wireless network unsecured, based on the age, sex, knowledge, etc., of the resident.  Another useful future research direction would be to gather survey data from other cities in other states or countries to see if the attitudes found in this research project are common over a larger audience of users In any case, the results of the survey show that there is definitely promise for the future of community wireless networks.  Also, it may well be possible to solicit the help of city residents in creating the underlying wireless infrastructure to build the elusive wireless city   8. References  1 E  Vo s Muniwireless.com July 2005 report found at http://www.baller.com/pdfs/Muniwireless_7-05.pdf, accessed on June 8, 2008   S  V e rm a an d P  Beck m a n   A Framework for Comparing Wireless Internet Service Providers with Neighborhood Area Networks Proceedings of the 2002 Americas Conference on Information Systems, Dallas, Texas, August 8-11, 2002   S   V e rm a P  Beck m a n  an d  R Ni ckerso n   Identification and Classification of Business Models for Wireless Internet Service Providers and Neighborhood Area Networks  Proceedings of the 2002 Information Strategy & Tec hnology Forum, Berkeley, CA, October 15-16, 2002  4 F Bar, an d G  Hern an  Building the Wireless Internet Infrastructure: From Cordless Ethernet Archipelagos to Wireless Grids Communication & Strategies, 54\(2\2004 pp. 45-54   R U m al i   A Comparative Study of Commercial Wireless Networks and Community Wireless Networks  Master s degree thesis, San Francisco State University, 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


found at: http://is.sfsu.edu/files/rumali_thesis_complete.pdf accessed on June 10, 2008  6 W  L e hr, M Sirb u, a nd S G ille tt Municipal Wireless Broadband: Policy and Business Implications of Emerging Access Technologies  Networking: Wireless and Wireline  2004  7 J. Ellig A D y na m i c P e rspe c tiv e on G o v e rn m e nt  Broadband Initiatives, Reason Foundation, Policy Study 349, 2006  8 F Bar an d N  P a rk  Municipal Wi-Fi Networks: The Goals, Practices, and Policy Implications of the US Case  Communications & Strategies, 61\(1\2006, pp. 107-124  9 A   T a pia  C. Ma itla nd, a n d M. Sto n e   Making IT work for municipalities: Building municipal wireless networks  Government Information Quarterly, 23 \(3-4\ 2006, pp. 359380  10 C  M i d d le to n A Framework for Investigating the Value of Public Wireless Networks Telecommunication Policy Research Conference, Arlington, VA, 2007  11 A  A bde la a l a nd H  A li Typology for Community Wireless Network Business Models Proceedings of the Thirteenth Americas Conference on Information Systems Keystone, Colorado, USA, August 9-12th, 2007  12 Zo om e r a n g   f ound a t http w w w z oom e r a n g  c o m   accessed on June 8, 2008  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


desired information provider, the needed Web services with descriptions stored in a WS repository are bound to the process. Besides abstract WS transitions, WS invocation transitions are also utilized to buy transport ticket, reserve hotel, make registration, and check received ticket and confirmations. The dashed outgoing arcs of the place ?WS repository? are read-only connections with selective Filter Schema. The way of how to bind Web services whose descriptions are stored in the repository will be explained in Section 5.3  5.2. Data and data flow modeling  XML nets provide inherent ways for data and data flow modeling. Data objects that move through XSN can be modeled as XML documents whose structure is typified by XML Schemas. Filter Schemas can be used Figure 2. XML net-based abstract service composition process for travel arrangement Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 to select, create, modify or \(partially uments and thus realize data manipulation and flow of the documents. Supported by software tools like INCOME2010 [12], non-flowing process objects, e.g roles, resources, process metrics, key factors etc., can also be modeled in XML and assigned or bound to process or process elements for validation or monitoring purposes In WSC, the flowing data objects are usually messages that serve as input and output of Web services Messages are encoded in XML format and exchanged over standard XML-based messaging protocols like SOAP. Using XML nets, messages as XML documents can be easily modeled as tokens of places and typified by XML Schemas like SOAP Schema2 In the context of WSC, message passing usually refers to asynchronous communication among Web services by sending structured data packages over transport protocols. One problem in message passing is that an output message of a Web service could be incompatible with the required input message of another WS For instance, an output message containing 3 strings as service invocation results cannot be used by a Web service which requires only 2 strings as input parameters. This message incompatibility problem can be solved with XML nets by adding a WS chaining transition as mediator between two WS invocation transitions to adjust their input and output messages. The function of the mediating transition is realized straightforward by Filter Schemas assigned to its incoming and outgoing arcs Figure 3 shows an example to illustrate how XML nets are used to solve this problem. A mediating transition ?adjust message? is added between two WS invocation transitions for reserving hotel and checking hotel reservation, respectively. The SOAP response of the hotel reservation service contains detailed information about reservation id, hotel, customer, room, price, date  2 http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope and payment status etc. The SOAP request for the reservation checking service provided by the hotel requires only reservation ID. To preclude this incompatibility, Filter Schema FS1 is used to deliver the SOAP response to the mediating transition, and FS2 to create SOAP request using reservation ID filtered from the response The mediating transition can also be used to aggregate or disassemble messages. In the first case, it acts as an AND-join transition, which means it has several 


incoming arcs and only one outgoing arc. Filter Schema of the outgoing arc contains variables used in Filter Schemas of the incoming arcs. In the latter case, the mediating transition is an AND-split transition that has only one incoming arc and several outgoing arcs. Variables of the Filter Schema assigned to the incoming arc are used to construct Filter Schemas of the outgoing arcs  5.3. Web Service Discovery and Selection  In this paper we distinguish between Web service discovery and Web service selection. While Web service discovery refers to the process of finding functionally suitable Web services in a set of service descriptions that are unknown a priori, Web service selection deals with comparing and choosing appropriate Web services from a known set of descriptions according to customized preferences, including non-functional constrains or requirements, e.g. quality of services \(QoS WS selection is often used after WS discovery to render more accurate and desirable results, especially when several Web services with the same functionalities are discovered. In WSC, WS discovery and selection are applied to achieve process dynamics by finding and integrating Web services to a predefined abstract service process at run-time Taking advantage of Filter Schemas and transition inscriptions that contribute to process rules of XML net models, we can combine WS discovery and selection Figure 3. Using XML nets to solve message incompatibility problem reserve hotel check hotel reservation reservation confirmation adjust message Information for checking reservation FS2 Envelope BodyHeader ReserveHotelResponse room address customer namename hotel dateprice payment emaildeparturearrival  0..1  FS1 reservationId Header  Envelope Body checkHotelReservationRequest  0..1 reservationId Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 with the definition and \(re process rules. At development-time, Filter Schemas for service filtering can be created according to an XML schema of Web service description, e.g., WSDL Schema3, UDDI Schema4 etc. Transition inscriptions can also be used to define constraints for service selection 


also be used to define constraints for service selection At run-time, the workflow engine for XML nets interprets and evaluates Filter Schemas and transition inscriptions to filter and create Web service descriptions as XML documents. With process monitoring and administration tools which are usual components of workflow management systems, new criterions and constraints for WS discovery and selection can be incorporated at run-time by reconfiguring transition inscription statements and variable instantiations in Filter Schemas  Instantiating abstract WS transition Figure 4 shows a fragment of the abstract WSC process in Section 5.1 to demonstrate the ability of XML nets in WS discovery. To obtain transport information, Web services whose descriptions are stored in an unknown WSDL repository should be discovered The token count of the place representing the repository is supposed to be unlimited. The abstract transitions find transport info service? and ?get transport information? are used to bind and call Web services at runtime. The incoming arc of the transition ?find transport info service? is a reading connection \(represented by a dashed arc nipulative Filter Schema FS2 used to create Web service descriptions is assigned to the outgoing arc of this transition. FS1 and FS2 are both generated according to WSDL Schema  Adapting abstract WS transition at run-time Suppose that the transition ?get transport information? is used to acquire flight information. Variables in FS1 should be \(partly  3 http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl#A4.1 4 http://uddi.org/schema/uddi_v3.xsd es supplying flight information. As shown in Figure 5a the variable of the attribute filter ?name? of the element filter ?service? is instantiated with a regular expression for filtering Web services whose name contains the string ?flight?. This regular expression, together with the Filter Schema, is parsed to XQuery/XPath statements in process simulation or execution. If we use a reconfiguration tool to modify the regular expression at run-time as shown for example in Figure 5b, the transition ?get transport information? can then be adapted to acquire other transport information, e.g., train information. After a suitable WSDL document has been found, FS2 is used to create a new WSDL document for the place ?WS description by cloning the discovered document. Figure 5c shows the diagram of FS2 containing the WSDL root element definitions? and an element placeholder, which is used because the internal structure and details of the document to be created are not of interest in the case of document duplication  QoS-aware WS selection XML nets can also be used to select desired Web services if service constraints like QoS or customized preferences are taken into consideration. As WSDL and OWL-S provide no or limited ways for describing Web service?s QoS, we use in this paper OWL-QoS 43], which complements OWL-S with an ontology to specify QoS metrics for Web services, to demonstrate the ability of XML nets for \(QoS-aware Naturally, other Web service ontologies \(e.g., MOQ 11 e.g., WSLA [18 can also be used for this purpose Figure 6 shows another XML net fragment for the acquisition of transport information by selecting OWL 


acquisition of transport information by selecting OWLQoS documents which describe quality of Web services from a repository that contains 3 OWL-QoS documents discovered previously. Similar to the example in Figure 2, the Filter Schema FS1 is used to read and select appropriate OWL-QoS documents, and the Filter Schema FS2 to create new OWL-QoS documents for the place ?OWL-QoS document?. As Filter Schema provides no means for formulating inequality operators like ?&gt;? and ?&lt;=?, which are usually used to express constraints with parameters whose quantitative values are limited to a certain interval, transition inscriptions Figure 4. XML net for Web service discovery Figure 5. Filter Schemas for Web service discovery definitions 1 service name: \\s*flight\\s*/i c definitions service name: \\s*train\\s*/i b a definitions 1 1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 can be used in combination with Filter Schemas to formulate QoS constrains Suppose that the traveler wants to use only the Web services that cost no more than 100 US Cent. The Filter Schema FS1 should then be created as shown in Figure 7. The variable of the attribute filter ?rdf: resource? of the element filter ?owl: onProperty? is instantiated with a regular expression to filter OWL-QoS documents specifying the property ?costUSCent?. To ensure that the maximal cost of the Web service doesn?t exceed 100 US cent, the inscription of the transition ?select transport info service? should be formulated as owl:maxCardinality &lt;= 100?. In process simulation or execution, the inscription is parsed and integrated into XQuery statements using XPath inequality operators  6. Conclusions  In this paper we presented a WSC method based on XML nets, which inherit advantages of Petri nets such as formal semantics and graphical expression. XML nets have additional strengths in the description of process and data objects, and the exchange of XMLbased structured data. The advantage of using XML nets for WSC is that control flow modeling, data and data flow modeling, and WS discovery and selection can be realized using a uniform powerful modeling language. Some uncomplicated tasks, as illustrated before, can be fulfilled without developing or using additional software components or agents. Naturally XML nets can also be combined with other Web service techniques to fulfill more complicated and demanding tasks  7. Acknowledgement  The authors would like to thank the anonymous referees for many valuable comments on an earlier version of this paper  8. References  1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching 


1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching Web Service Coordination and Composition by Means of Petri Nets: the Case of the Nets-within-Nets Paradigm?, ICSOC 2005, LNCS 3826, pp.185-197, 2005 2] M. ter Beek, A. Bucchiarone, and S. Gnesi, ?Web Service Composition Approaches: From Industrial Standards to Formal Methods?, Second International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services \(ICIW?07 Computer Society, 2007 3] X.N. Feng, Q. Liu, and Z. Wang, ?A Web Service Composition Modeling and Evaluation Method Used Petri Net?, LNCS Volume 3842/2006, pp. 905-911, SpringerVerlag, 2006 4] H. Foster, S. Uchitel, J. Magee, and J. Kramer, ?Modelbased verification of Web Service Compositions?, 18th IEEE International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp. 152- 161, 2003 5] X. Fu, T. Bultan, and J.W. Su, ?Analysis of Interacting BPEL Web Services?, WWW2004, pp. 17-22, New York USA, May 2004 6] J.D. Ge, H.Y. Hu, P. Lu, H. Hu, and J. L  Translation of Nets Within Nets in Cross-Organizational Software Process Modeling?, SPW 2005, LNCS 3840, pp. 60-375 Springer-Verlag, 2005 7] Group for program system, faculty of Information Technique University Dortmund, ?PDDL?, http://ls5www.cs.uni-dortmund.de/~edelkamp/ipc-4/pddl.html 8] R. Hamadi and B. Benatallah, ?A Petri Net-based Model for Web Service Composition?, Fourteenth Australasian Database Conference \(ADC2003 CRPIT, Vol. 17, pp. 191-200, 2003 9] S. Hinz, K. Schmidt, and C. Stahl, ?Transforming BPEL to Petri Nets?, BPM 2005, LNCS 3649, pp. 220?235, Springer-Verlag, 2005 10] H. Kang, X.L. Yang, and S.M. Yuan, ?Modeling and verification of Web Services Composition based on CPN 2007 IFIP International Conference on Network and Parallel Computing-Workshops, pp. 613-617, 2007 11] H.M. Kim, A. Sengupta, and J. Evermann, "MOQ: Web Services Ontologies for QOS and General Quality EvaluaFigure 6. XML net for Web service selection Figure 7. Filter Schema for QoS-aware WS selection owl:Ontology owl:Class rdfs:subClassOf owl:Restriction rdf :resource : "\\s+#costUSCent owl:onProperty owl:maxCardinality   rdf:RDF Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 tions", European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS 2005 12] S. Klink, Y. Li, and A. Oberweis, "INCOME2010 - a Toolset for Developing Process-Oriented Information Systems Based on Petri Nets", International Workshop on Petri Nets Tools and APplications \(PNTAP 2008, associated to SIMUTools 2008 March 2008 13] O. Kluge, ?Petri nets as a Semantic Model for message Sequence Chart Specifications?, proceedings of INT 2002 pp. 138-147, 2002 14] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, ?Inter-Organizational Business Process Management with XML Nets?, H. Ehrig, W Reisig, G. Rozenberg, H. Weber \(Eds gy for Communication Based Systems, LNCS 2472, pp. 243263, Springer-Verlag, 2003 15] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, "Workflow Services: A Petri Net-Based Approach to Web Services", Int. Symposium on Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Pa 


Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Paphos/Cyprus, November 2004 16] L. Lin and I.B. Arpinar, ?Discovery of Semantic Relations between Web Services?, IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS?06 17] Q. Lin, J.D. Ge, H. Hu, and J. Lu, ?An Approach to Model Cross-Organizational Processes using Object Petri net?, 2007 IEEE Congress on Services \(SERVICES 2007 pp. 146-152, July 2007 18] H. Ludwig, A. Keller, A. Dan, R. P. King, and R Franck, ?Web Service level Agreement \(WSLA Specification version 1.0?, IBM, 2003 19] N. Lohmann, P. Massuthe, C. Stahl, and D. Weinberg Analyzing Interacting BPEL Process?, S. Dustdar, J.L. Fiadeiro, and A. Sheth \(Eds 32, Springer-Verlag, 2006 20] S.A. Mcllraith and T.C. Son, ?Adapting Golog for Composition of Semantic Web Services?, 8th International Conference on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning KR2002 21] S.A. Mcllraith, T.C. Son, and H.L. Zeng, ?Semantic Web Services?, IEEE Intelligent Systems, March/April 2001 16\(2 22] N. Milanovic and M. Malek, ?Current Solution for Web Service Composition?, IEEE Internet Computing, NovemberDecember 2004 23] S. Narayanan and S.A. Mcllraith, ?Simulation, Verification and Automated Composition of Web Service?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 24] The Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards \(OASIS Process Execution Language Version 2.0?, 11 April, 2007 http://docs.oasis-open.org/wsbpel/2.0/wsbpel-v2.0.pdf 25] S.R. Ponnekanti and A. Fox, ?SWORD: a Developer Toolkit for Web Services Composition?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 26] Z.Z. Qian, S.L. Lu, and L. Xie, ?Colored Petri Nets Based Automatic Service Composition?, 2007 IEEE AsiaPacific Services Computing Conference, pp. 431-438, 2007 27] C. Ouyang, E. Verbeek, W.M.P. van der Aalst, S. Breutel1, M. Dumas1, and A.H.M. ter Hofstede1, ?Formal semantics and analysis of Control flow in WS-BPEL?, BPM center Technical Report, BPM-05-15, 2005 28] J.H. Rao and X.M. Su, ?A Survey of Automated Web Service Composition Methods?, SWSWPC 2004, LNCS 3387, pp. 43-54, Springer-Verlag, 2005 29] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Application of Linear Logic to Web Service Composition?, 1st International Conference on Web Services, Las Vegas, USA, June 2003 30] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Logic-based Web Services Composition: From Service Description to Process Model?, 2004 International Conference on Web Services, pp.446-453, San Diego, USA, July 2004 31] M. Sgroi, A. Kondratyev, Y. Watanabe, L. Lavagno and A. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli, ?Synthesis of Petri Nets from Message Sequence Charts Specifications for Protocol Design?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp. 193-199, 2004 32] W.M.P. Van der Aalst, "The Application of Petri Nets to Workflow Management", The Journal of Circuits, Systems and Computers, 8\(1 33] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C Semantic Markup for Web Services?, 22 November, 2004 http://www.w3.org/Submission/OWL-S 34] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vices Choreography Description Language Version 1.0?, 17 December, 2004, http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/WD-ws-cdl10-20041217 35] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Choreography Interface \(WSCI 


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





