Computerisation, Data Privacy and Scientific Excellence Where are e Going Damir Kalpi Department of Applied Computing Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing Unska 3, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia damir.kalpic@fer.hr Abstract  Computerisation of most human activities that handle data is widely in function nowadays. General fears of Big Brother syndrome are ubiquitous. The paper attempts to challenge this common wisdom by demonstrating on some examples how computerisation in connection with proclaimed data privacy politics actually hinders the useful information, some of which was even formerly available, without computerisation or in older information system versions before the current rigid data privacy legislation. Examples are taken primarily from some personal author’s experience and from information systems aimed for academic community in Croatia, developed at the author’s Department. Data privacy prevents ordinary members of the academic community or society from proper investigation that could challenge the adequacy of existing policies. At the same time, the persons who institutionally have granted access to the collected information and who are the most influential to conduct policies have hardly time to do so Keywords Personal identification number Identity fraud, Risk, Student administration Subsidised nourishment, Academic achievement 1. Introduction This invited paper offers the author a possibility to share with the audience some his first-hand experience in order to challenge some seemingly generally accepted threats, like disclosure of private data through computerisation. The famous personification of the ubiquitous presence of data collectors and abusers is named Big Brother after the Orwell’s character in his well known futuristic novel 1984 However, these widely expressed fears are in contradiction to the popularity of the equally named TV reality show where some irrelevant individuals perform some irrelevant activities while being thoroughly watched by wide enthusiastic audience who find inexplicable joy in watching someone’s alleged privacy. The press is overwhelmed with gossip and stories from private life of so called celebrities. This information is of no use to anyone, except that it can ruin someone’s life. This duality of human character is appropriately exploited by so called data privacy activists. How much the transparency and tax payers’ rights are endangered by hiding information which is of our common concern, is hardly ever asked On the other hand, overwhelming computerisation allows for providing to worldwide audience the measures of scientific activity for any scientifically active individual whether s/he likes it or not. Under circumstances of scientific overproduction and overflow of publications, some measures have been introduced to help reduce the noise. However these indices aimed for readers, have turned into major factors for evaluation of individual scientific excellence. This attitude shall be under scrutiny in this paper The topics are considered thanks to the author’s experience regarding the abolition of the Personal Identification Number in Croatia development at his Department of two nationwide information systems to support higher education and through his recurring duty of evaluation of his peers’ proposals and performance for their re-election or promotion 2. Personal Identification Number In early 1970-ties the introduction of Unique Citizen’s Identification Number started as an answer to requirements of early computerisation efforts. At that time, no computer networks were available, so that rules regarding the construction of that number had to enable its creation locally The number was determined to be 13 digits long It started with the date of birth, where the year 89 Proceedings of the ITI 2008 30 th Int. Conf. on Information Technology Interfaces June 23-26, 2008, Cavtat, Croatia 


was presented by 3 digits, so it was not affected by the Y2K problem. Locality of birth code and sex code followed, ending with a serial number of the individual in the local birth registry. The last digit was a control one, calculated modulo 11. In the years to come, this number has become the commonly accepted unique key to identify the citizens. In 2002 the Croatian Parliament in a poor and misunderstood imitation of foreign practice, pretending to protect data privacy brought a legal act practically abolishing the use of that allegedly “all-revealing” number. There were reasonable voices in the Parliament to object this Act but they were overridden by the computer-illiterate majority. An exchange of existing personal documents followed, having the number removed The legislators did not bother to consult profession. Afterwards, the author was engaged by the Government in a group of about 40 professionals from different fields to solve the problem how to proceed further without the Unique Personal Identification Number. After having achieved the e-mail addresses of all the Group members, the author sent them a longer email message explaining that this number was used as a substitute primary key instead of the imperfect combination of family and personal names, extended by the date and place of birth and father’s name; as it had been usual beforehand. The author pleaded for withdrawal of the Act instead of trying to find solutions to an unnecessarily provoked problem. He also offered a modest financial reward to any information that anyone could obtain from his Personal Id, except his date of birth, place of birth and sex. After these mailings, the Group was never convened again. The author had an opportunity to criticise the Act at an open public discussion, in a radio talk and in form of an interview in the major daily newspaper [1  In this interview h e  admitted that the Personal Id does unnecessarily reveal a personal information – date of birth which was inevitable due to the technology available when it had been introduced. He proposed, if necessary, but hardly as a priority, a one time substitution with non-revealing numbers. The efforts of some other individuals and organisations, like the Banking union also were in wane. The existing documents were substituted with useless ones. The citizens had to provide other documents as statehood certificate or birth certificate and/or to carry with them the old voided documents in order to prove their identity The Act has made it easier to steal identity or to hide own wrongdoing. Data privacy activists were happy to deprive the banks of a unique person’s identification. This made possible to a person deeply in debt and unable to repay it, to get another loan in another bank and double the damage. The banks’ normal reaction would be to increase the interest rates for loans as result of increased risk.  Honest citizens can be punished due to villains. Eventually, the banks reintroduced the use of Personal Id. At first, it occurred “voluntarily”. A person, who would not submit it, would not be considered for a loan Afterwards, the banks did not have to fear because the very Ministry of finance required the Personal Id for taxation purposes. Some other institutions were damaged. The author had the opportunity to witness it at a Croatian state agency which had problems to collect some fees from land owners who were not uniquely identifiable. There were identity frauds where a person was selling someone else’s real estates due to increased mess in cadastre and even more so in land registry To be fair, one must admit that even some honest people could take advantage of the Act, as illustrated in the following story The author’s colleague in rush to a business meeting had parked his car in the city centre at a prohibited place. After the meeting, his car was not there, obviously towed away by the communal service, just as he expected. He went to the tow lot to pay the fine and take his car back. The car was not there. There was no information about having towed away his car The author’s colleague went back to the position he had parked the car in order to call the police and report his car stolen. But his car was back there! How come? The author’s colleague bears the same personal and family name as the newly appointed minister of transportation at that time While checking the car owner without the Personal Identification Number, one confounded the author’s colleague with his boss, the new minister. The reaction was quite expected In the end of the day, this year, the so called Personal Taxation Number is to be introduced. It will not reveal any personal information but it will completely assume and extend the role of the former Personal Id. Nobody officially admits that it could have been done immediately, as the author proposed in [1  Nobody in author s knowledge, at least until now, has come to the idea to complain about the endangered personal data privacy introduced through this new 90 


number. The author wonders if some data privacy activists could miss such a splendid opportunity to let themselves heard. Ignorant technophobes may again raise their voices against the “all revealing number”, while if somebody bears a rare, uncommon name, which also uniquely identifies a person, nobody objects The unhappy ones among honest citizens are actually those who have very common names and are often confounded with someone else 3 Subsidized nourishment of students Ministry of Science and Technology at the end of the last century faced an annoying problem. In major student feeding facilities or students’ restaurants, food stamps were issued to students after a payment. The students were using these stamps to pay for their meals and the Ministry had subsidized this activity. It can be easily devised that the Ministry was paying also when nobody did actually eat and the subsidising money was split between student and the restaurant In order to avoid the misuse in this activity with the budget larger than the University’s, the Ministry financed the project of a computerised system for management of students’ nourishment based on a sort of credit cards issued to students 3 stem h a s been successfully put into function and it is still running. One of the aims of the system was to detect inappropriate use of subsidise. Statistics showed some abnormality in the distribution of consumption. Some students did not use the system for what it was designed to enable them regular convenient and appropriate food. Instead they were buying resalable packed products like juices, packages of e.g. 27 puddings or yoghurts etc. The developers of the system organised web sites where such abuses were made public. On the other hand, the system could reveal the cashiers who were selling such packages with no questions asked. Very soon, revealing of this information was banned by the Ministry because it would offend the abusers’ rights”. So, the abuses persist, probably lower than before the system introduction, but they still represent a misuse of the taxpayers’ money and encourage socially unacceptable behaviour among the student population. Taxation money is used partially to support fraud.  Honest students appear to be fools for not enjoying fully the beauty” of the system 4. Student Administration Software The tradition of developing software to support student administration is rather long 4    u t each versi on was beco ming ever  more restrictive following the legal regulations The last version [8  aim e d for the higher education in the whole country is strictly obeying the data privacy rules in order to satisfy the most restrictive user. How restrictive a user can be illustrates the recorded case of legal suite of a professor against his colleague because he had examined the accuser’s student in a course they commonly taught. Beforehand, some analyses, if even in their initial stage, had been preformed in order to try to find some behavioural patterns of students and educators [9  Now, thanks to an unfortunate appeasement to pusillanimous behaviour of some faculty members already at the time of the former software version and due to fear from being accused for breaching the data privacy, excessive limitations have been introduced. The data privacy enforcement is omnipresent. The mentor of a student can only observe the grades his student has achieved in the mentor’s courses and the overall average grade. Whether his or her student is more inclined towards mathematically oriented courses or hardware or software or social sciences whether the student is a regular one or a notorious repeater, remains for the mentor a mystery. The mentor is also supposed to advise his mentored students regarding the enrolment in elective courses. Publicly visible, there exist the contents of each course. The professors are obliged to enter also the time plan for weeks of educational activities, but as they do not see it immediately, it is understandable that they are reluctant to do it, or they use alternative means to expose it. Even if the very precise educational schedule and contents of an elective course were available, it is not enough. The course quality and attractiveness heavily depend upon the execution. There are regular anonymous students’ evaluations of educators, three times per course, for each course separately [2  Th e deviation from data secrecy is in the fact that all the educators in the same course can see each other’s scores. The written students’ comments are hidden, except to the educator in question what is appropriate because the comments can sometimes be singular no justified attacks, while the scores are of statistical nature and represent fairly the audience’s opinion. Still the 91 


information among all the teachers is not revealed This is a giant leap forward in comparison to recent times when the educators were untouchable”. The author remembers how the first attempts of these enquires were abolished as it turned out that a certain professor’s lectures ranked as “hardly understandable”. For the author and his team who provided software, that outcome had been the best proof that the software performs correctly! Now, this secrecy appears to be very humane towards the educators. It certainly is. However, what about the students? A mentor can advise them only according to some gossip to avoid certain educators. Is it correct, or it might be protracting prejudice The students who prolong their study excessively are required to pay tuition. Their parents are eager to know what they are paying for. Is their descendant in the first or in the last year of study, or somewhere in between? The same can be said for the taxpayers and for all the students because even if tuition paid, it is only a fraction of the real costs. The majority of the costs are still covered by the taxpayers’ money The spending per student differs heavily among faculties and their source is far from transparent At once, the results of examinations have become a secret, although there has been in the university regulations since ancient times that the examinations are public. The author’s Faculty is an institution that boasts with its acknowledged quality, it is the only Croatian faculty to be internationally accredited and it is notoriously free of bribery, as different enquiries among the University students had demonstrated. One of its prides is the long tradition of entrance examination process consisting of performance in the secondary school and achievements at the entrance examination Am ong other things  it is made public how many credits a candidate has brought from the secondary school and what were his or her achievements at the examination Recently the Croatian Personal Data Protection Agency tried to convince the author’s institution to hide all the data regarding the entrance examination and to reveal only the personal result to each candidate. Of course, this could open unlimited opportunity to fraud and arbitrary behaviour. Decades of building confidence and eliminating of any possibility for bribery or corruption were invested in order to acquire the status of a fair and trustworthy institution for students, since the very beginning, since their entrance examination. A civil servant tried to endanger it, wishing desperately to find some argument for the Agency’s existence. In accordance to the Bologna process, the examinations are being performed simultaneously, in large groups and homework has been introduced. All this is applicable under presumption that the students would not be cheating, what is absolutely understandable at any renowned university in the world. Our students had to sign statement obliging them not to breach these regulations. However, recently a few students were caught to be cheating without any doubt. The Faculty decided to announce their misdeeds in public as a warning that an expulsion may follow. This act has caused incredibly fierce reaction from the media and from the data privacy protectionists. They regarded it as an intolerable abuse of data privacy. It has remained unclear what would they suggest instead – expulse the students silently, so that no one knows and can experience it only if caught in the same criminal activity; or should these students have obtained a special reward for cheating? The Student Administration Software collects interesting and useful data. Only a fraction of it is ever used or reviewed thanks to data privacy enforcement. The very few who are entitled to examine the data, can hardly find time, motivation or competence to do it Therefore, the whole system, developed and deployed after substantial efforts and invested competence, is reduced to a few very ordinary administrative functions, performed just because they are a duty. If there is no feedback to the data one enters, there is not much enthusiasm left among the educators for filling in, less than while filling in a taxation claim Who benefits from the data privacy in stateowned public universities? Before the Bologna process analyses regarding examiners’ attitudes could have been interesting. Nowadays, the examiners have little to say. The grades are derived from the credits achieved in continuous mostly written examinations and are interpreted after the ECTS rules, according to the Gaussian distribution. What remains to be seen are the individual students’ grades. Who are the best who fair, mediocre or poor? Wouldn’t it be interesting for the industry to have access to these data in order to offer scholarships not only to the best and the brightest, but also to those who may fit best their needs? Data privacy protects these students from such offers Actually, hardly anybody knows who the really 92 


good students are. The overall average mark does not reveal everything. Some who have very high marks in all courses are not apt for every job. It is also interesting to know whether the grades have been achieved in first trial or after multiple repetitions. Employers cannot offer adequate salaries to newly graduated ones taking into account also their academic performance, in comparison with the others. The employers or professionals from industry and business act sometimes as guest lecturers in some practically oriented courses in order to reveal their professional experience. In this way they risk to be accused for revealing some of their business secrets for the sake of spreading knowledge However, if they ask their host at the Faculty for information about students they could recruit they are turned down due to data secrecy. Who benefits? Benefit the students who protract their study endlessly, or pretend to be excellent while being mediocre. They are supported by taxpayers and by their parents, presenting them false or no data at all. Good students are punished while the worst are rewarded Finally, there is a very recent example of a received e-mail, the author could not answer without trespassing the ruling official secrecy. It shows what is regarded quite normal elsewhere and what we hinder through data privacy Dear Professor Damir Kalpic  X Y has submitted an application to the Faculty of Graduate Studies at the University of British Columbia in the following area Program: Master of Science in Computer Science Application Start Date: September 2008 X Y has indicated that you will be providing a reference report on his/her academic ability and qualifications. References may be submitted via paper or using the online eReference form  For further assistance, please contact our office at UBC Graduate Studies Online Application Regards Faculty of Graduate Studies University of British Columbia  5. Scientific excellence In very contradiction to the above mentioned proceedings in the Croatian higher education and public life, so called measures of scientific excellence are sometimes, but not consequently widely accessible The Rugjer Bošovi scientific institute in Zagreb has developed and maintains the Croatian Scientific Bibliography \(CROSBI\abase. It is a very useful application which should have, but it has not, avoided the need to re-declare the same data in different occasions, like promotion application for scientific projects, applications for scientific novices etc. Everybody can observe someone’s achievements and conclude about competences thereafter. Any change of data requires authentication and authorisation, exactly as it should be On the other hand, the Croatian Ministry of Science, Education and Sports maintains the Registry of Scientists in Croatia. The data privacy is very strongly enforced so that the only information one can obtain is the Personal Scientist’s Id if the user submits the person’s personal and family name and the date of birth This information is generally useless except for administration purposes where in some reports and applications this number is required. It serves to nothing because not even the scientific status of the person gets revealed. However, for some administrative purposes a certificate that one is in some scientific status can be required According to regulations, as published on the Ministry’s Web, such a certificate can be issued to a scientist after a written request. The author has recently submitted such a request, and as he received it a month and a half later, it was no more useful for him. The author often acted as referee for someone’s election or promotion, for evaluation of scientific projects and programs for evaluation of proposals of study, for evaluation of proposals for establishment of new institutions etc. The main factor in all these considerations is the people who should perform No information about them was available from the Register, initially envisaged as the main and trustworthy source of information. Data privacy hindered practical use of it. The referee can rely only on the data that the proponents have submitted about themselves. Some guilt for the criticised Register may be with the author of this paper who was engaged in the computerisation project for this Register. He should have maybe influenced its more appropriate fate 93 


Worldwide, information about scientists is widely accessible in scientific indices. The most famous one, the Current Contents, was envisaged to help the readers find relevant stuff under conditions of overproduction of scientific articles. In the meantime, much of the world academic community, have become addicts of scientomerics. The scientometric indices were not intended for the purpose of personal evaluations and the proof of someone’s identity does not exist. The author can find in famous Ovid under “Kalpic, D” only his references There is another Kalpic, “Kalpic B”, unrelated and personally not known to the author, but who publishes in a close field as the author of this paper If his name had started also with “D”, the author \(and his counterpart\y enjoy a higher reputation in some scientific circles! The information which is public is misused for the purpose it was not foreseen for A wider discussion about the criteria for academic promotion deserves another paper. In brief, the author strongly believes that exclusive insistence on scientometric quantifiers is contra productive, driving some of the best & brightest towards irrelevant, but easy to publish niches of science 6. Possible further developments If the data secrecy is rigidly enforced further on, there will be someone to fill the gap, mostly with disinformation, of course. Nowadays, junk mail arrives in hundreds messages per day to those of us who have our e-mail addresses openly exposed. These are well known non customised messages related to easy money, sex medications or replica watches. The sources of these fraudulent messages seem to be uncontrollable. It is conceivable that someone can on order  ”customise” such messages and send abusive contents regarding some person to many addresses. This could become a blackmailing instrument under circumstances that there were no publicly available sources of correct personal information. Recently, at the author’s institution some alleged student posted on the Web the story about a professor being permanently drunk. The professor in question is an extremely sober and morally straight person but he was still injured by such accusations. How come that he was so wrongly accused? His family name can be reduced to a nickname meaning “cork” in Croatian. Someone who had only heard that nickname invented and posted the rest Junk mail and viruses have deteriorated our life on-line. The same can be expected to happen with disinformation. When it comes to absurdity the legislators will have to admit their error and revoke the unnecessary information ban. It would be better if this can occur before too much damage has been done 7. Conclusion Data privacy policies should be seriously reconsidered, not only in Croatia. Outcomes of public education, paid by taxpayers’ money should be equally transparent to citizens like the results of scientific production which is often financed in the same way Internationally recognised scientific indices widely open to public, should be used primarily as a valuable tool for information retrieval rather than measure of someone’s scientific excellence Lack of reliable information can lead to disinformation and harm principally the correct citizens The author might have been too provocative self-centred and abusive for an invited speaker Nevertheless, the author strongly believes that at least some of his hypotheses do have foundation and he would be more than happy if this article could make any contribution to future improvements, or if a discussion could convince him that he was wrong. If proven to be wrong there will be still time enough to prevent broadcasting the Peking 2008 Olympic Games results in public. The competitors’ data privacy rights would be best protected if they were the only ones to know their own results 8. References 1 Kalp i D., Širanovi V.: I vladina grupa za mati ni broj Even a Government group for Personal Identification Number  ernji list, Zagreb, 22.01.2003. \(interview 2 Hoi Boži Nataša; Mornar, Vedran Authoring of Adaptive Hypermedia Courseware Using AHyCo System Advances in Web-Based Education Personalized Learning Environments Magoulas, George ; Chen, Sherry \(ur Hershey, PA : IDEA Group Publishing 2005. pp. 253-276 94 


3 Mornar, V Fertalj, K., Kalpi D., Krajcar S: Credit Card System for Subsidized Nourishment of University Students \(2002 In Khosrow-Pour, M., ed.: Annals of Cases on Information Technology 2002/4, Idea Group Publishing, Hershey, PA, USA, ISBN 1-930708-40-8, pp. 468-486 4 Kalpi J. Anzil, V. Dumani H Zokovi Student Administration System Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on Information Technology Interfaces, Pula, June 15-18, 1993, pp 123128 5 Kalpi H. Zokovi J. Anzil, D. Pukljak Graphical Interface for the Student Administration System, Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Information Technology Interfaces, Pula June 14-17, 1994, pp 325-330 6 Kalpi V. Mornar: Student Administration System, European review conference proceedings "UniversityEnterprise Information Systems" Graz September 15-16, 1994, pp 124-131 7  e p i D. Kalpi Student Service Information System, Univac Users Association/ Europe, Spring conference München, 1983 8 K a l p i Damir ; Baranovi Mirta ; Mornar Vedran ; Krajcar, Slavko. Development of an Integral University Management System International Conference on System Engineering, Communications and Information Technologies, ICSECIT 2001 Proceedings / Magaš, Bedrich \(ur.\Punta Arenas, Chile : Universidad de Magallanes 2001 9 Javor, Davor ; Statisti ka analiza baze podataka studentske službe Statistical analysis of the students administration database  Electrical Engineering and Computing Zagreb, 1996 10 A ep i P. Ma ašovi M urek, D Kalpi Primjena elektroni kog ra unala na klasifikacijskom ispitu Computer application for classification exam  Informatica, Bled, 1974 95 


96 


   Table 7. F-Measure \(%\f clusterings on test data with noise  W 1 W 2  W 3 W 5 W 6   1:0 10:1 1:5:1 15:1 1:5:1 20:1 1:5:1 15:1 1:10:1 Corpus ID 1 98 100 100 100 100 2 87.4 90 92.5 95 92.5 3 39.4 76 76 77.3 76 4 81.7 86.8 88 88 86.8 5 69.8 69.8 88.2 89.3 87.1 6 82.4 82.5 84.3 84.2 85.1 7 69.5 78.4 77.8 78.9 79.2 8 74.5 76.9 75.2 75.2 76.4 9 78.3 84.7 86.3 85.2 83.6 10 58.3 63.8 62.3 55.7 59.2 Average 73.9 80.9 83.1 82.9 82.6 Standard deviation 16.3 10.3 10.6 12.3 11.0  5. Conclusion and future work  We have presented a new approach to document clustering in this paper that utilizes citation semantics as a similarity measure. Using experimental analysis we have demonstrated that the accuracy of clustering on incorporation of citation semantics is improved by 5-10  compared to using only the vector space measure An important consideration in machine learning applications is the cost benef it ratio. Ideally, the gain in performance should be worth the complexity of the approach. The non-optimized Citonomy pipeline used in this paper took about twice the time that the use of VSM alone takes. Though the use of Citonomy entails the use of several additional steps, these operate on a small subset of the data space, can be fully automated and several of the steps can be executed in parallel Therefore, running time can be potentially improved especially with removal of the combinatorial steps that were included for comparative validation. Further since this is an independent modular addition to the process of clustering, and essentially a pre-processing step for generating a pair-wise distance measure for documents with citations, it can be combined with essentially any clustering approach. Given that the resulting improvement is substantial and the extra cost is a linear addition that can potentially be minimized we feel the cost benefit ratio is high enough for this approach to be useful in practice While the degree of improvement may depend on the choice of documents to be clustered,  we speculate that the present report represents a lower bound and the contribution of Citonomy is likely to be higher in differentiating between subsets of closely related documents, in contrast to the coarse problem of journal-wise classification evaluated here. This is because Citonomy may be seen as an attempt to include semantics that stem from a consideration of spatial locality of terms, and from explicit links specificied by the authors of documents. Both these factors should lend themselves to a higher degree of discernment, as they go beyond considering only the independent occurrence of terms in a pure VSM approach. Further, the approach may be used as a distance measure not just for research papers, but essentially any documents that embed citations to other documents Future work may include the use of this approach on diverse types of document sets to establish its robustness. It may also be refined by using underlying domain ontologies for systematic recognition of matching terms, rather than performing only string matching as in the present work. Running time can also be improved by automating connections between the various steps and by judicious use of the values for the parameters that yield the best performance for the training sets   6. References  1. Berkhin, P Survey of clustering data mining techniques 2002 2 G. Salton, A.W., C.S. Yang A vector space model for automatic indexing Communications of the ACM, 1975 3 C.J. van Rijsbergen, S.E.R.a.M.F.P New models in probabilistic information retrieval in British Library Research and Development Report 1980 British Library: London 4 A. McCallum, K.N., L. H. Ungar Efficient clustering of high-dimensional data sets with application to reference matching in the sixth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining 2000 5 F. Beil, M.E., X. Xu Frequent term-based text clustering in SIGKDD 02 2002. Edmonton Alberta, Canada 6. I. Yoo, X.H Biomedical ontology MeSH improves document clustering qualify on MEDLINE articles A comparison study in 19th IEEE Symposium on computer-based medical systems 2006 7 A. Hotho, A.M., and A. Staab Text clustering based on good aggregations Kunstliche Intelligenz KI\02 16 4\: p. 48-54 8 C. Lee Giles, K.D.B., S. Lawrence CiteSeer: An automatic citation indexing System in the third ACM conference on digital libraries 1998 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 9. Geyer, C.J Practical Markov chain Monte Carlo  Statistical Science, 1992 7 4\: p. 473-511 10. Hansmann, U Parallel tempering algorithm for conformational studies of biological molecules  ArXiv:physics, 1997 1 29 11. S. Chib, E.G Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation methods in econometrics  Econometrics Theory, 1996 12 3\409-431 12 MeSH cited; Available from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez?db=mesh  13 J. Bakus, M.F.H., and M. Kamel A SOM-based document clustering using phrases in the 9th international conference on neural information proceeding 2006 14. Garfield, E Where was this paper cited Current Contents, 1994 15. Cameron, R.D A universal citation database as a catalyst for reform in scholarly communication  First Monday, 1997 2 4 16. Garfield, E The concept of citation indexing: A unique and innovative tool for navigating the research literature Current Contents, 1994 17 M. Day, T.T., C. Sung, C. Lee, S. Wu, C. Ong, W Hsu A knowledge based approach to citation extraction in International conference on information reuse and integration, IEEE 2005 18. Takasu, A Bibliographic attribute extraction from erroneous references based on statistical model in the 2003 joint ACM/IEEE conference on Digital Libraries 2003 19 H. Han, L.G., H. Zha Two supervised  learning approaches for  name disambiguation in author citations in the 2004 joint ACM/IEEE conference on Digital Libraries 2004 20 H. Han, H.Z., L. Giles Name disambiguation in author citations using a K-way spectral clustering method in The 2005 joint ACM/IEEE conference on Digital Libraries 2005 21 S. Teufel, A.S., D. Tidhar Automatic classification of citation function in the 2006 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing 2006 22 P. Nakov, A.S., M. Hearst Citances: Citation sentences for semantic analysis of  bioscience text  in the SIGIR 04 workshop on Search and Discovery in Bioinformatics 2004 23 Kaufman, L. and P.J. Rousseeuw Finding Groups in Data in An Introduction to Cluster Analysis  1990, John Wiley & Sons: Brussels, Belgium 24 van Rijsbergen, C.J., S.E. Robertson, and M.F Porter New models in probabilistic information retrieval 1980, London: British Library 25 Markov Clustering Algoritm cited; Available from: http://micans.org/mcl 26. Levenshtein, V.I Binary codes capable of correcting deletions, insertions, and reversals  Soviet Physics Doklady 1966 10 p. 707 710 27 PubMed Central cited; Available from http://www.pubmedcentral.nih gov/about/ftp.html 28. Rijsbergen, C.J.v Information retrieval 2 ed 1979, London: University of Glasgow   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Dr Mohammad Mojarradi is an expert in developing mixedsignallmixed-voltage electronic circuits for drive and control of actuators power supplies sensors and micro-machined electromechanical interface applications He manages the development of the electronic circuits for the thermal cycle resistant electronics task for Mars Science Laboratory at JPL and leads a research consortium of universities developing electronics for extreme environments He received his Ph.D from UCLA in 1986 has twenty-five patents eighty publications and is a senior member of IEEE Prior to joining JPL he was an Associate Professor at Washington State University and the Manager of the mixed-voltagelspecialty integrated circuit group at the Xerox Microelectronics Center El Segundo CA Patrick McCluskey is an Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Maryland College Park where he is associated with the CALCE Electronic Products and Systems Center He has published extensively in the area of packaging and reliability Of electronics and microsystems for high power and extreme temperature environments including two books and numerous book chapters He has also served as general or technical chairman for numerous conferences in these research areas Dr McCluskey is an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies He received his Ph.D in Materials Science and Engineeringfrom Lehigh University Benjamin J Blalock received his B.S degree in electrical engineering from The University of Tennessee Knoxville in 1991 and the M.S and Ph.D degrees also in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta in 1993 and 1996 respectively He is currently an Associate Professor in the Department Of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at The University of Tennessee where he directs the Integrated Circuits and Systems Laboratory ICASL His research focus there includes analog integrated circuit design for extreme environments both wide temperature and radiation on CMOS and SiGe BiCMOS multi-gate transistors and circuits on SOI analog circuit techniques for sub 100-nm CMOS mixed-signallmixed-voltage circuit design for systems-on-a-chip and biomicroelectronics Dr Blalock has co-authored over 80 refereed papers He has also worked as an analog IC design consultant Dr Blalock is a senior member of the IEEE Raymond J Garbos is VP and Chief Engineer of Aura Instrumentation Inc He is responsible for the development of advanced avionics concepts architectures and technologies for aerospace applications He has over thirty five years of circuit logic and system architecture design experience He was an Engineering Fellow for Sanders Associates 1984-8 5 Lockheed Martin 1986 2000 and BAE Systems 2001-06 He was the RL V Avionic IPT lead for Lockheed Martin and has participated in many Advanced Space Avionics Studies supporting MSFC He received BSEEIMSEM degrees from Northeastern University in 196811971 and a MAT degree from Rivier College in 2001 Leora Peltz is a scientist at Boeing Phantom Works responsible for the development and application of sensors and advanced avionics and insertion   into flight applications She has experience in evaluation and modeling of circuits and materials in extreme environments and the real-time operation of distributed architectures Leora received a PhD degree from Case Western Reserve University in 2003 Dr Michael Alles is a Research Associate Professor in the Electrical Engineering Department and the Program Manager for Commercial Systems with Vanderbilt University's Institute for Space and Defense Electronics ISDE where he works in the area of radiation effects in microelectronics He spent 2 years as a Business Unit Director for Silvaco International 10 years with Ibis Technology Corporation in product development and program management and 1 year with Harris Semiconductor as a design engineer Dr Alles has a strong background in semiconductor technology including manufacturing and metrology computer-aided design tools for semiconductor fabrication processes devices and integrated circuit design and expertise in modeling and simulation of radiation effects in semiconductor devices and circuits Dr Alles has served on the SIA ITRS starting materials working group since 1999 serving as chairman of the SOI materials group for the 2001 revision of ITRS and has been a reviewer for Transactions on Nuclear Science several times He has over 40 technicalltrade publications and 2 patents Dr Alles received his Ph.D in Electrical Engineering 12192 MS in Electrical Engineering 8190 11 


and his B.E in Electrical Engineering with a Double Major in Physics 5187 allfrom Vanderbilt University Dr Alles present research focus is in the application of advanced and emerging semiconductor technologies in radiation environments R Wayne Johnson is a Samuel Ginn Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering at Auburn University and Director of the Laboratory for Electronics Assembly and Packaging LEAP At Auburn he has established teaching and research laboratories for advanced packaging and electronics manufacturing His research efforts are focused on the materials processing and reliability aspects of electronics manufacturing Current projects include lead free electronics assembly mixed leadfree and Sn/Pb electronics assembly wafer level packaging flip chip assembly assembly of ultra thin Si die 30,um and electronics packagingfor extreme environments 2300C to 4850C Wayne was the 1991 President of the International Society for Hybrid Microelectronics ISHM He received the 1993 John A Wagnon Jr Technical Achievement Award from ISHM was named a Fellow of the Society in 1994 and received the Daniel C Hughes Memorial Award in 1997 He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and a member of the Surface Mount Technology Association SMTA and IPC Association Connecting Electronics Industries He is currently a member of the IEEE Components Packaging and Manufacturing Technology CPMT Society Board of Governors and Vice President of Publications He is also Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Electronics Packaging Manufacturing He has published 58 journal papers 140 conference papers 6 book chapters and co-edited one book on electronics packaging and electronics manufacturing He has also presented a number of invited talks Wayne holds one U.S patent Wayne received the B.E and MSc degrees in 1979 and 1982 from Vanderbilt University Nashville TN and the Ph.D degree in 1987 from Auburn University Auburn AL all in electrical engineering 12 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


