Strengthening Fuzzy Gradual Rules Through all the more Clauses Bernadette Bouchon-Meunier Senior Member IEEE  Anne Laurent Marie-Jeanne Lesot and Maria Rifqi Abstract  Fuzzy gradual rules of the form the more X is A the more Y is B linguistically express information about the correlation between attributes and their co-variation They thus provide valuable information summarizing the trends observed in a given data set In this paper we consider strengthened fuzzy gradual rules i.e gradual rules enriched with a clause introduced by the expression all the more such rules of the form the more X is A the more Y is B all the more Z is C offer additional precisions on the relation between the attributes We study the denition of such strengthened rules discussing their possible semantics considering several interpretations of fuzzy gradual rules We then propose quality criteria as well as a mining algorithm I I NTRODUCTION The extraction of information describing digital data their inner trends and exceptional behaviors can take many different forms leading to various pieces of knowledge delivered to experts In this paper we focus on fuzzy gradual rules that convey information in the form of attribute co-variations such as the closer the wall the harder the brakes are applied  or more generally the more X 1 is A 1  and  and the more X n is A n  then the more Y 1 is B 1  and  and the more Y p is B p  such rules consider attributes  e.g wall distance braking or more generally X i and Y i  associated to fuzzy modalities  e.g close hard or more generally A i or B i  and data described by their membership degrees to these fuzzy modalities They then establish links between the values of these membership degrees Such rules were rst proposed and interpreted as a special case of inference rules  2 3  4  modeled b y a fuzzy r implication a pplied t o each data point individually A different approach of fuzzy gradual rules interprets them as global tendencies across the whole data set imposing correlations on the variations of the membership degrees 5 6  7  8 9  In this paper we consider for both interpretations enriched gradual rules that add strengthening information linguistically expressed by clauses introduced by the expression all the more Such rules are of the form the closer the wall the harder the brakes are applied all the more the higher the speed  in this example the information about the speed enriches by an additional preci sion the relation established between wall distance and braking B Bouchon-Meunier M.-J Lesot and M Rifqi are with the University Pierre et Marie Curie-Paris6 CNRS UMR 7606 LIP6 104 avenue du Pr esident Kennedy Paris F-75016 Paris phone 33\(0 278 886 email  bernadette.bouchon-meunier,marie-jeanne.lesot,maria.rifqi@lip6.fr   A Laurent is with the University Montpellier 2 CNRS UMR 5506 161 rue Ada 34095 Montpellier phone 33\(0 418 631  email anne.laurent@lirmm.fr We discuss the question of the semantics of this strengthening clause considering the frameworks corresponding to various interpretations of fuzzy gradual rules and the strengthening effect in each case We then propose several quality criteria adapted to these different semantics We also present a mining algorithm to automatically extract such rules from data sets The paper is organized as follows Section 2 recalls the principles of fuzzy gradual rules  discussing their interpretations and recalling their extraction methods In Section 3 we discuss the strengthening semantics and we detail in Section 4 the notions of support conﬁdence and other quality criteria that can be considered in each case Lastly in Section 5 we describe an algorithm to automatically extract such strengthened gradual rules II F UZZY G RADUAL R ULES Several deﬁnitions and approaches exist for the notion of fuzzy gradual rules whose aim is to establish correlation between attributes to summarize relevant trends observed in the data In this section we rst recall the classic notations and deﬁnitions of fuzzy gradual item itemset and rules as given e.g by 6 8  W e then compar e t he main tw o approaches that respectivel y apply rules individually to each data point in a fuzzy implication interpretation or consider the rules as co-variation constraints applied across the whole data set recalling the associated quality criteria A Formalizations of Fuzzy Gradual Item Itemset and Rule A fuzzy data set D describes data through attributes corresponding to fuzzy linguistic variables associated to fuzzy modalities one can for instance have an attribute X  speed with the modality set  low normal high   The data are then described by membership degrees that indicate the extent to which their characteristics belong to the considered modalities Table I illustrates such a data base containing 8 data points described by 3 attributes For instance the speed of the rst object belongs with degree 0.2 to the modality low 0.3to normal and 0.5 to high  Deﬁnition 1 Given an attribute X deﬁned on a universe U  a fuzzy subset A deﬁned on U describing one of X modalities and     a fuzzy gradual item is deﬁned as the triplet  X A    Atriplet  X A   is then to be understood as the more X is A  or more precisely the higher the membership degree of X to A  likewise  X A   is to be understood as the less X is A or the lower the membership degree of X to A  978-1-4244-8126-2/10/$26.00 ©2010 IEEE 


TABLE I E XAMPLE OF A FUZZY DATA SET Id Speed Wall distance Braking low normal high close far light avg hard o 1 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.4 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.2 o 2 0.2 0.2 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.7 0.1 o 3 0 0.1 0.9 0.7 0.3 0 0.6 0.4 o 4 0 0.2 0.8 0.8 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.6 o 5 0.1 0.7 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.3 0.3 0.4 o 6 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.9 0.1 0.5 0.3 0.2 o 7 0 0.6 0.4 0.8 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.8 o 8 0.1 0.2 0 7 0.9 0.1 0 0.3 0.7 For instance wallDistance close   represents the fuzzy gradual item the closer the wall  Deﬁnition 2 A fuzzy gradual itemset is deﬁned as a combination of several gradual items semantically interpreted as their conjunction For instance M    X 1 A 1     X 2 A 2    is interpreted as the more X 1 is A 1 and the less X 2 is A 2  Deﬁnition 3 A fuzzy gradual rule  denoted by M 1  M 2 is deﬁned as a pair of fuzzy gradual itemsets M 1 and M 2  on which a causality relationship is imposed M 1 is called the anteceden t M 2 the consequent  It can for instance take the form wallDistance close    braking hard   meaning the closer the wall the harder the brakes are applied  Different semantics can be associated to these rules We recall them below distinguishin g between the interpretations as fuzzy implication and as co-variation constraints detailing the various approaches implementing the latter In the following we do not distinguish between fuzzy sets and their membership functions for any fuzzy subset A and for any data point x in the data set D  we denote A  x  the membership degree of x to A  For an itemset containing k items M    X j A j   j  j 1 k   we consider the membership degree to the itemset as M  x   j 1 k  A j  x  where  denotes a a t-norm e.g the minimum B Fuzzy Implication Interpretation Fuzzy gradual rules were rst deﬁned as logical inference rules in a fuzzy logic framework 1 2   a f uzzy gr adual rule M 1  M 2 is considered to hold if the membership degrees to the fuzzy modalities involved in the rule satisfy a fuzzy implication for each data point Such a rule can be interpreted as a fuzzy generalization of association rules 3 stating that the fuzzy presence of M 1 implies in a logical implication sense the fuzzy presence of M 2  For instance the rule the closer the wall the harder the brakes are applied  can be seen as the fuzzy extension of an association rule relating the presence of binary attributes close wall and hard braking  In this interpretation the support of the rule is then computed as the sum of the contribution of each data point to the implication Deﬁnition 4 fuzzy implication interpretation The support of a fuzzy gradual rule R  M 1  M 2 is computed as supp  M 1  M 2   x D i  M 1  x  M 2  x  1 denoting i a residuated implication operator e.g the Goguen implication i  a b min\(1 b/a  if a  0  1 otherwise It can be noticed that this support deﬁnition does not apply to an itemset as deﬁned in the classic association rules framework it applies to the rule in an asymmetrical way that distinguishes between M 1  M 2 and M 2  M 1 and does not only consider the itemset M  M 1  M 2  As an example consider the data given in Table I and R the rule the closer the wall the harder the brakes are applied that we will use throughout the paper R support is then 0.5+0.2+0.57+0.75+1+0.22+1+0.77  5.01 It can be noticed that other implication operators lead to different types of rules than fuzzy gradual rules in particular s-implications lead to so-called certainty rules They indeed model certainty variations in the conclusion leading to rules such as the later the waking the more certain the lateness 2 3  C Co-variation Constraint Interpretation A second approach on fuzzy gradual rules interprets them as co-variation constraints applied to the whole data set instead of considering each point individually the rule is understood as expressing a global tendency across the data as correlation on the variations of the membership degrees outside a logical implication framework In the case of two items  X A   and  Y B   therule the more X is A the more Y is B  written  X A     Y B    is considered to hold if an increase in the membership degrees to A comes along with an increase in the membership degrees to B  Three categories of methods can be distinguished in this context depending on whether they rely on regression analysis induced ranking correlations or order compliant data subsets as detailed below 1 Regression Analysis In order to identify fuzzy gradual rules interpreted as co-variation relationships it was rst proposed to perform a regression analysis between membership degrees s o as t o hi ghl i ght gr adual d ependenci e s  More precisely when considering a rule M 1  M 2 a regression method is rst applied to the membership degree couples  M 1  x  M 2  x  forall x D  i.e considering all data points simultaneously The validity of the rule M 1  M 2 is then evaluated from the quality of the regression for linear regression 5 i t i s t hus meas ur ed by t h e nor malised mean squared error R 2  together with the slope of the regression line Thus the attribute pairs for which the membership degrees are insufﬁciently correlated are rejected as well as pairs for which the membership to M 1 remains almost constant while that to M 2 varies or reciprocally 2 Induced Rankings Correlation Whereas the regression analysis method relies on the numerical values of the membership degrees other works consider the co-variation constraint only in terms of the induced order they state that the ordering induced by the membership degrees to M 1 must 


be identical to that derived from M 2  In the case of itemsets of size 1 the gradual rule the more X is A the more Y is B is considered to hold if  x x  D  A  x  A  x   implies B  x  B  x    In the case of dependencies such as the more XisA,thelessYisB  the constraint imposes that the induced orders must be reversed In 6 t h e s uppor t o f a n i t e ms et i s t hus meas ur ed as t h e proportion of so-called concordant data couples i.e couples that satisfy the constraints expressed by all gradual itemsets involved in the rule Deﬁnition 5 induced rankings corr elation interpretation The support of an itemset M    X j A j   j  j 1 k  is computed as supp  M    x x     j  1 k  A j  x   j A j  x    D  D  1 2 The support of a rule M 1  M 2 is then deﬁned as the support of the itemset M  M 1  M 2  as in the classic association rule framework Considering the data in Table I and the rule the closer the wall the harder the brakes are applied  the support is then 0.57 all couples to simplify the notation we only give the object indexes 1  2  1  5  1  6  2  5  3  5  3  6  4  6  4  7  5  6  6  7  6  8  7  8  together with for each of them the exchanged couples  2  1  5  1    are discordant 1  Thus there are 24 discordant couples and 32 concordant ones for a total number of 56 leading to the support value 32/56  0.57 In i t i s t hen p r opos ed t o for m ul at e t he e x t r act i o n o f such rules as the discovery of association rules in a set of transactions derived from the data set transactions t are built for all data couples  x x    items are deﬁned as A        for all modalities in D  A transaction t then possesses an item A  if the couple  x x   it corresponds to satisﬁes the constraint imposed by A   i.e A  x   A  x    Fuzzy gradual rules in D then correspond to association rules in this modiﬁed data set In order to reduce the computational complexity efﬁcient approximation schemes are proposed 6 In 9 t he s a me s uppor t d eﬁnition i s c ons ider ed a nd interpreted in terms of ranking correlation it is computed as a generalised Kendall coefﬁcient using an efﬁcient binary representation of the data pairs as proposed in 8 3 Ranking-compliant Data Subsets In 7 8  a dif f er ent interpretation of the co-variation constraint semantics of fuzzy gradual rules is considered it proposes to identify subsets D  of the initial data set D that satisfy the ordering constraint expressed by a given itemset i.e subsets of data that can be ordered so that all couples from D  satisfy the constraints expressed by the gradual itemsets Deﬁnition 6 ranking-compliant data subset interpretation The support of an itemset M    X j A j   j  j 1 k  is 1 When only two items are considered it is sufﬁcient to consider the object pairs because both couples  i j  and  j i  have the same status i.e if both are concordant or both are disc ordant For longer itemsets they must be handled separately it can e.g be that both  i j  and  j i  are discordant because of different gradual item constraints computed as supp  M  1 D max D  L D   3 where L denotes the set of all maximal data subsets D    x 1   x m D for which there exists a permutation  such that  j  1 k    l  1 m  1  A j  x  l   j A j  x  l 1   The maximality constraint imposes that for any D   no object can be added to D  without loosing the ranking compliance property Considering the data in Table I and R the rule the closer the wall the harder the brakes are applied  L   1  3  4  7    2  3  4  7    1  3  4  8    2  3  4  8   all subsets contain 4 elements and R support equals 4/8  0.5 It can be underlined that this deﬁnition of support is independent of the amplitude of the constraint violation if an object does not satisfy the itemset i.e if it does not t with the considered order it is simply removed from D  Onthe contrary its penalisation is variable both for the regression and the ranking correlation approaches in the regression approach a point with a high deviation amplitude is likely to distort the regression coefﬁcient to a large extent in the ranking correlation approach such a point is likely to give rise to a high number of discordant couples  x x    In 7 a heur i s t i c i s pr opos ed t o comput e t hi s s uppor t  i n a level-wise process that considers itemsets of increasing sizes It consists in discarding at each level the objects whose socalled conﬂict set is maximal i.e thedatathatpreventthe maximal number of other objects to be sorted In 8 an e x act and v er y e f  ci ent m et hod i s pr opos ed based on precedence graphs the data are represented through a graph whose nodes are deﬁned as the objects and the edges express the precedence relationships The graph is represented by its adjacency matrix in a bitmap form for an itemset M    X j A j   j  j 1 k   the coefﬁcient corresponding to  x x   is 1 if  j  1 k  A j  x   j A j  x    0 otherwise The support of the considered itemset can then be obtained as the length of the maximal path in the graph The support deﬁned in Equation 2 can be obtained as the sum of the elements in this matrix as proposed in 9 The relevance of this approach comes from its very high efﬁciency to generate gradual itemsets of size k 1 from itemsets of size k  indeed it holds that if M is an itemset generated using M  and M   its adjacency matrix Adj M  Adj M   Adj M  where  is the bitwise AND operation III S TRENGTHENING E FFECT THROUGH  ALL THE MORE C LAUSES The semantics of fuzzy gradual rules have been widely studied and several interpretations have been proposed as recalled in the previous section In this section we consider strengthened fuzzy gradual rules i.e fuzzy gradual rules enriched by an additional reinforcement clause introduced by the linguistic expression all the more Such strengthened fuzzy gradual rules can be illustrated by the example the closer the wall the harder the brakes are applied all the more the higher the speed and formalized as follows 


Deﬁnition 7 A strengthened gradual rule is a triplet of fuzzy gradual itemsets  M 1 M 2 M 3  and is denoted by M 1  M 2  M 3  M 1 is the antecedent M 2 the conclusion and M 3 the strengthening clause linguistically introduced by the expression all the more  In the following we discuss the semantics that can be attached to this strengthening effect comparing various interpretations in particular with respect to the different semantics of fuzzy gradual rules We focus on the interpretation as co-variation constraints across the whole data recalled in Section II-C and in particular on the ranking compliant data subset approach see Section II-C.3 and Deﬁnition 6 that identiﬁes data subsets on which the ranking constraint holds In Section III-D we discuss the strengthening effect for the fuzzy implication interpretation of fuzzy gradual rules A Difference with Conjunctive Gradual Rules It is rst important to underline the difference between strengthened rules and conjunctive rules of the form  M 1 012 M 3   M 2  With the considered illustrative example this rule would be the closer the wall and the higher the speed the harder the brakes are applied  Both rules can hold for a given data set still their semantics differ Indeed for such conjunctive gradual rules M 3 plays a causal role on M 2 and in the co-variation interpretation of fuzzy gradual rules it imposes a strong constraint it requires that the rankings induced by the three itemsets M 1  M 2 and M 3 are identical or highly consistent In the strengthening case the ranking constraint only concerns the two itemsets M 1 and M 2  This restricts to a lesser extent the number of objects on which the rule applies the reinforcement effect rather applies on the rule M 1  M 2 than on M 2  even if it does not exclude a causal effect of M 3 on M 2  B Constraint on Variation Strength One interpretation of the strengthening effect considers it as a constraint on the variation intensity of M 2  when the rankings according to M 1 and M 2 agree the relation all the more is understood as a intensiﬁcation of the variations of the attributes involved in M 2 according to M 3 values Considering the illustrative example the closer the wall the harder the brakes are applied all the more the higher the speed  this interpretation means that rst an increase in the wall closeness implies an increase in the braking strength and second that the increase i s correlated to high speed Formally this interpretation of strengthening can be expressed as the conjunction of fuzzy gradual rules a rule M 1  M 2  and a rule of the form M 3   M 2 where  M 2 denotes M 2 variations C Reinforced Presence Another interpretation evaluates the strengthening inﬂuence of M 3 on the rule M 1  M 2 as the fact that the rule is better satisﬁed when the candidate objects are the ones possessing M 3 rather than when the whole d ata set is considered it should be easier to apply the rule when one focuses on data possessing M 3  Equivalently the strengthening inﬂuence of M 3 on the rule M 1  M 2 is interpreted through the extent to which M 3 is possessed by objects satisfying the rule The reinforcement is thus used to partition the data considering a fuzzy partition and to compare the rule validity on a data subset and the whole data set this interpretation combines the fuzzy gradual rule with a fuzzy presence condition For this interpretation the fuzzy gradual rule approach through ranking compliant data subsets is in particular relevant it is indeed easy to measure a reinforced presence of M 3 when the rule M 1  M 2 applies as the method explicitly extracts data subsets for which the rule holds Therefore we will use this method in the following in particular to deﬁne the quality criteria Still the other ranking-based approaches of fuzzy gradual rules also make it possible to take into account a weighted inﬂuence of M 3 presence in the regression case it is possible to modify the R coefﬁcient e.g to give less weights to regression errors that coincide with low presence of M 3 In the ranking correlation approach the penalisation associated to a discordant pair can also depend on the membership degrees to M 3  D Case of Fuzzy Implication Interpretation In the framework of fuzzy gradual rules understood as fuzzy implications satisﬁed individually for each data point a strengthened rule M 1  M 2  M 3 can be interpreted following different lines Indeed in a such framework it makes sense to consider an additional attribute in the data base whose values are the truth values of the implication M 1  M 2  i.e i  M 1  x  M 2  x  for all x D  The strengthened rule can then be understood as gradual relation between the membership degree to M 3 and the new additional attribute meaning that the reinforcement holds if the implication is all the truer as M 3 is true The strengthened rule is then identical to the cascaded fuzzy gradual rule M 3   M 1  M 2  in the fuzzy implication interpretation of gradual rules The support of such a rule can then be computed by transposing Equation 1 as  x D i  M 3  x  i  M 1  x  M 2  x   It can be underlined that for s-implications the cascaded rule is equivalent to  M 1 012 M 3   M 2 as the previous quantity equals i    M 3  x  M 1  x  M 2  x  Nowthe ukasiewicz implication i  a b min\(1  a  b 1 is both an rand an s-implication combining the gradual rule interpretation with the previous property It thus bridges the gap between reinforced and conjunctive rules Besides this interpretation sheds new light on the interpretation presented in the previous subsection III-C although the latter does not belong to the logical framework it also considers a fuzzy presence semantics Still the presence of M 3 is not taken into account indi vidually for each data point but it is evaluated globally on the ranking compliant data subset 


IV S TRENGTHENING Q UALITY C RITERIA In this section we describe the quality measures and in particular support and conﬁdence proposed to assess strengthened fuzzy gradual rules according to the semantics described in Section III-C As mentioned previously the ranking compliant data subset recalled in Section II-C.3 appears to be particularly relevant for this interpretation Therefore we exploit its properties in the proposed quality criteria especially the identiﬁcation of subsets of data on which the ranking constraint holds A strengthened rule M 1  M 2  M 3 contains two components namely the fuzzy gradual rule M 1  M 2 and its reinforcement thus it mu st be assessed according to these two elements Therefore we propose to characterize a reinforcement rule both by the support and conﬁdence of the rule M 1  M 2  and by the strengthened support and conﬁdence in reinforcement that measure the quality of the latter In the following we propose deﬁnitions for these criteria A Strengthened Support As in the classic case we propose to deﬁne the support of a strengthened rule by an evaluation of its frequency To that aim we use a sigma-count approach to deﬁne the degree to which M 3 is present among the objects that satisfy the rule M 1  M 2  the higher it is the better the reinforcement holds 1 Deﬁnition More formally we propose the following deﬁnition Deﬁnition 8 The strengthened support of a fuzzy gradual rule R  M 1  M 2  M 3 is deﬁned as s supp  R  max i 1 k  x D  i M 3  x  4 denoting L  D  i i 1 p  the set of all maximal data subsets that can be permuted to satisfy the ranking constraints on M 1 and M 2  Introducing the notation M 3  D    x D  M 3  x   i.e the fuzzy cardinal of D  according to M 3  the support equals s supp  R ax i 1 p M 3  D  i   2 Example Considering the data given in Table I and the R rule the closer the wall the harder the brakes are applied all the more the higher the speed  one has L   1  3  4  7    2  3  4  7    1  3  4  8    2  3  4  8  and M 3  D  1  M 3   1  3  4  7  0  5+0  9+0  8+0  4=2  6  M 3  D  2  M 3   2  3  4  7  0  6+0  9+0  8+0  4=2  7  M 3  D  3  M 3   1  3  4  8  0  5+0  9+0  8+0  7=2  9  and M 3  D  4  M 3   2  3  4  8  0  6+0  9+0  8+0  7=3  Thus the strengthened support is 3 3 Properties It must be underlined that the proposed deﬁnition is not symmetric due to the speciﬁc role of M 3  Besides as discussed in previous section this deﬁnition does not take into account a co-variation of the membership degrees to the strengthening clause M 3 with those of the antecedent and consequent of the rule it uses a sigma-count on M 3 presence This approach is in particular relevant to handle reinforcement by binary attributes as for instance the greater the meat purchase the averager the vegetable purchase all the more if the city is Paris  Such rules can easily be dealt with in this context the membership degrees equal 1 for all objects possessing the attribute One can replace in the previous deﬁnition the sigma-count by a thresholded sigma-count using a user-deﬁned threshold this makes it possible to avoid taking into account objects that are not representative enough of M 3  Lastly as the support deﬁned for classic association rules the following property holds Property 1 The strengthened support is anti-monotone with respect to the size of the M 3 itemset Proof if one considers two rules R 1  M 1  M 2  M 3 and R 2  M 1  M 2  M 4 with M 3  M 4  it holds that s supp  R 1   s supp  R 2   Indeed the two rules R 1 and R 2 have the same basic form and thus the same set L of maximal ranking compliant data subsets Moreover for any x D  M 3  x   M 4  x   Indeed itemsets are interpreted as conjunction of the items they contain Thus noting M the itemset such that M  M 4  M 3  M 4  M 3  M and  x M 4  x    M 3  x  M  x  015 M 3  x   Thus it holds that D  i D M 4  D  i  015 M 3  D  i   which leads to the desired result This property will in particular be used for the mining algorithm described in Section V B Strengthened Conﬁdence The conﬁdence in the strengthened fuzzy gradual rule then measures the relevance of the strengthening effect as compared to the non strengthened rule M 1  M 2  1 Deﬁnition Following the classic scheme of conﬁdence deﬁned as the quotient between the rule support by the antecedent support a rst deﬁnition could consist in comparing the strengthened support as deﬁned in Equation 4 to the support of the non strengthened rule this would lead to deﬁne s conf  R  s supp  M 1  M 2  M 3  supp  M 1  M 2 max i 1 p M 3  D  i   max i 1 p D  i   Now this deﬁnition is not satisfactory because it compares values that may be obtained from different data subsets the numerator is obtained from the ranking compliant subset with maximal M 3 fuzzy cardinality whereas the denominator comes from the ranking compliant subset with maximal cardinality Now these subsets need not be the same and the quotient of two values corresponding to different objects does not have an intuitive meaning Therefore we propose to compute the quotient between M 3 fuzzy cardinality and cardinality for each candidate data subset individually and to then take the maximal value Deﬁnition 9 The strengthened conﬁdence of a fuzzy gradual rule R  M 1  M 2  M 3 is deﬁned as s conf  R  max i 1 p M 3  D  i  D  i  5 denoting L  D  i i 1 p  the set of all maximal data subsets that can be permuted to satisfy the ranking constraints on M 1 and M 2  


This strengthened conﬁdence implements the semantics proposed in Section III-C evaluating the average membership degree to M 3 among data satisfying the ranking constraint Several data subsets satisfying the condition we consider the maximal obtained value This choice implies that we consider that the conﬁdence can be established from any data subset on which the strengthened rule can rely and that it is sufﬁcient that there exists one such subset In the previous example that considers the rule the closer the wall the harder the brakes are applied all the more the higher the speed  all maximal subsets D  i have the same cardinality 4 the strengthened conﬁdence equals 3/4  0.75 2 Properties It can be noted that as the strengthened support and contrary to the classic conﬁdence measure the following property holds Property 2 The strengthened conﬁdence is anti-monotone with respect to the size of the M 3 itemset Proof denoting as previously R 1  M 1  M 2  M 3 et R 2  M 1  M 2  M 4 with M 3  M 4  it holds that M 4  D  i  015 M 3  D  i  as previously Dividing both sides by D  i   and taking the maximum over i  this leads to the antimonotony property This allows to directly extract strengthened fuzzy gradual rules with high conﬁdence that satisfy a user deﬁned threshold instead of having to lter out the rules with low conﬁdence after they have been extracted it makes it possible to efﬁciently mine strengthened rules of interest C Other Quality Criteria Other classic quality criteria for association rule evaluation see e.g 10  can als o be e x tended and i n p ar ticular the lift measure 11 t h e s t r engt hened s uppor t a nd con dence measures are sensitive to the frequency of the M 3 itemset in the same manner as classic support and conﬁdence are sensitive to the frequency of the conclusion itemset whereas the lift criterion is not In particular the lift criterion makes it possible to reject candidate association rules that conclude to modalities present in all data Likewise the aim of the strengthened lift is to reject reinforcement clauses based on modalities such that  x  M 3  x 1  Deﬁnition 10 The strengthened lift of a fuzzy gradual rule R  M 1  M 2  M 3 is deﬁned as s lift max i 1 p M 3  D  i  D  i   D M 3  D  6 denoting L  D  i i 1 p  the set of all maximal data subsets that can be permuted to satisfy the ranking constraints on M 1 and M 2  It compares the average membership degree to M 3 among data satisfying the ranking constraint to the global average membership degree to M 3 across the whole data set V A LGORITHM TO M INE S TRENGTHENED F UZZY R ULES The problem is then to extract all strengthened fuzzy gradual rules whose support conﬁdence strengthened support and strengthened conﬁdence are larger than user-deﬁned thresholds The rules looked for are maximal rules i.e those that contain the highest possible number of fuzzy gradual items while satisfying the thresholds This maximality constraint applies to all three itemsets constituting antecedent consequent and strengthening clause A strengthened fuzzy gradual rule M 1  M 2  M 3 contains two components the fuzzy gradual rule M 1  M 2 and the strengthened clause M 3 that must satisfy the support and conﬁdence constraints independently Thus the mining algorithm is made of two steps the rst one consists in identifying the fuzzy gradual rules that satisfy the support and conﬁdence constraints the second aims at establishing the strengthened itemsets that can reinforce these rules The rst step can be performed using the GRITE algorithm 8 t hat e xt r act s a l l fr equent fuzzy gr adual i t e ms et s w i t h t h ei r support Moreover it identiﬁes data subsets that can be sorted so as to satisfy the ranking constraints expressed by these itemsets It can be noted that the deﬁnition of strengthened support and conﬁdence Equations 4 and 5 actually depend on the frequent itemsets M 1  M 2 and not on the rules M 1  M 2  Thus they do not require the identiﬁcation of the causality relations between the items constituting the extracted itemsets The second step that aims at establishing the strengthening itemsets for the previous itemsets follows the principles of the APRIORI algorithm using the strengthened support and conﬁdence as quality measure strengthened itemsets are extracted in a level-wise approach progressively building the itemsets of increasing size exploiting the anti-monotony properties of these criteria To that aim given a fuzzy gradual rule R to strengthen or a frequent fuzzy gradual itemset the candidate strengthening itemsets of size k 1 are generated from the candidates of size k  using the classic APRIORIgen process They are then assessed using strengthened support and conﬁdence deﬁned in Equations 4 and 5 The candidates for which one of these values is below the user-deﬁned thresholds are discarded These two steps are iterated until no more candidate can be generated During the initialisation phase the candidate strengthening itemsets containing single items are deﬁned as modalities of attributes that do not appear in the itemsets to strengthen Indeed rules involving several modalities of a given attributes with different status anteceden t conclusion reinforcement could only contain trivial information regarding mutual exclusion of modalities for instance and would not be of interest VI C ONCLUSION In this paper we proposed a new approach to strengthen fuzzy gradual rules reinforced using all the more clauses to extract more information summarizing data sets We studied the semantics of such rules proposed criteria to measure the relevance of such rules and described a candidate level-wise extraction algorithm Beside the application of this algorithm to several data sets in order to empirically evaluate the identiﬁed knowledge 


future works aim at extending the strengthening semantics to other types of fuzzy graduality in particular expressed by certainty rules More generally extensions to other types of rules such as association rules or non fuzzy gradual rules are to be examined They would provide a way to extract contextual information i.e rules that do not aply to the whole data but only to data subsets R EFERENCES  B  B ouchon-M e unier and S  D espr  es Acquisition num erique  symbolique de connaissances graduelles in 3 emes Journ ees Nationales du PRC Intelligence Artiﬁcielle Herm es 1990 pp 127–138  D  D ubois a nd H  P r ade Gr a dual i nfer ence r u les in appr o x im ate reasoning Information Sciences  vol 61 no 1-2 pp 103–122 1992  E  H  ullermeier Implication-based fuzzy association rules in Proc of PKDD’01  2001 pp 241–252  S  G alichet D  D ubois  and H  P r a de  I m pr ecis e s peci cation o f illknown functions using gradual rules Int Journal of Approximate Reasoning  vol 35 no 3 pp 205–222 2004  E  H  ullermeier Association rules for expressing gradual dependencies in Proc of PKDD’02  2002 pp 200–211  F  B er zal J  C C uber o  D  S anchez M  A  V ila and J  M  S er r a no An alternative approach to discover gradual dependencies Int Journal of Uncertainty Fuzziness and Knowledge-Based Systems  vol 15 no 5 pp 559–570 2007  L  D i J or io A  L aur e nt a nd M  T eis s eir e F as t e xtr acti on of gr adual association rules A heuristic based method in Proc of CSTST’08  2008   M ining f r e quent gr adual item s ets fr om lar ge databa s es   in Proc of IDA’09  2009  A  L aur e nt M  J L e sot and M  R ifqi  Gr aank E xploiting r a nk correlations for extracting gradual dependencies in Proc of FQAS’09  2009  P  L e nca B  V aillant P  M e yer  and S  L allich  A s s o ci ation r ule interestingness measures Experimental and theoretical studies in Quality Measures in Data Mining  F Guillet and H J Hamilton Eds Springer 2007 vol 43 pp 51–76  S  Br in R  M otw a ni a nd C S ilv er s tein  Be yond m a r k et bas k ets  Generalizing association rules to correlations in Proc of the ACM SIGMOD/PODS 97 Joint Conference  1997 pp 265–276 


Jajodia, Sushil \(Eds Proc. of the ACMSIGMOD Int. Conf. on Management of Data, Washington D.C., 1993, pp. 207ñ216  e m ettinen, and A. Verka m o, ìApplying data mining technique for descriptive phrase extraction in digital document collections,î in Proc. of IEEE Forum on Research and technology Advances in Digital Libraries Santa Barbra CA, 1998  m adzadeh, M. Rahgozar and A. Zarnani, ìA new model for discoveri ng XML association rules from XML documents,î in Proc. 3 rd Int. Conf. on Knowledge Mining, ICKM Prague, Czech Republic, 2006 Aug. 25-27, pp. 365-369  i r, Y. Aum a nn, R Feldman, and M. Fresko Maximal association rules: A tool for mining associations in text Journal of Intelligent Information Systems 25:3, pp. 333-345, 2005  A  Ca m p i   M. Kl e m ettinen, and P  L   Lanzi M i n ing association rules fro m XML data,î in Proc. of the 4 th Int. Conf.  on Data Warehousing and Knowledge Discovery Aixen-Provence, France September 4-6, 2002  a m p i, S. Ceri, M. Kl emettinen, and P. L. Lanzi, ìA tool for extracting XML as sociation rules,î in Proc. of the 14 th IEEE Int. Conf. on Tools  with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAIí02 2002, pp. 57ñ64  and E. Meglio A Text M ining Strategy based on local contexts of words JADT 2004: 7 th JournÈes internationales díAnalyse statistique des DonnÈes Textuelles, 2004  r own Della Piet ra V J deSouza, and P V. Lai, ìClass-based ngram models of natural language Computational Linguistics vol. 18 pp. 467ñ479, 1992  A. Napoli  and Y. T oussaint, ìTowards a text mining methodology using association rule extraction,î Published online: 31 May 2005 © Springer-Verlag 2005  i cords and J. Lumpkin, ìDer iving general association rules from XML data in Proc. of Fourth ACIS Int. Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking, and Parallel Distributed Computing SNPD'03\L¸beck, Germany, October 16-18 2003  m a n and I. Dagan, ìKnowledge discover y in textual databases KDT\ in Proc. 1 st Int. Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 1995  R. Feld m a n, and H. Hir s h, ìMini ng associations in text in the presence of backgr ound knowledge,î in Proc. 2 nd Int. Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Portland, USA, 1996  m a n and I. Dagan and H Hirs h, ìMining text using keyword distributions Journal of Intelligent Systems 10, pp. 281-300, 1998  H. Zhang Q Qiu, and Z. Wang, ìPCAR an ef ficient approach for mining association rules 5 th Int. Conf. on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery, IEEE 2008  F¸rnkranz, ìA study using n-gram features for text categorization Austrian Research Institute for Artificial Intelligence Technical Report  OEFAI-TR-98-30 Schottengasse 3 A-1010 Wien, Austria, 1998  Bauer, J Mostafa M. Palakal, and S. Mukhopadhyay C oncept extraction and association from cancer literature WIDMí02  Mclean, Virginia, USA, November 8, 2002  J. Han, J. Pei, and Y Yin, ìMining frequent patt erns without candidate generation,î In W. Chen, J. Naughton, and P. A. Bernstein, editors, 2000 ACM SIGMOD Intl. Conf. on Management of Data ACM Press, 05 2000, pp. 1-12  W  Jin, R. K. Sr ihar i, and X Wu, ìMining concept associations for knowledge discov ery through concept chain queries,î Z.-H. Zhou, H. Li and Q. Yang \(Eds.\2007 LNAI 4426, pp. 555ñ562 2007.Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2007 20  R. Joshi, X. Li , S. Ramachandaran and T. Leong \(2004\. ìAutomatic Model Structuring from Text using BioMedical Ontology Available http://www.aaai.org/Papers/Workshops/2004/WS-0401/WS04-01-013.pdf   Agrawal, and R. Sr ikant, ìDiscovering Trends in Text Databases,î in Proc of KDD, Int. Conf. on Knowledge Discovery  NewPort Beach, CA, , August 14-17, 1997, pp. 227-230  A. Dasigi, R. Dingledine, and B Ciliax, ìT ext analysis of Medline for discovering functional relationships among genes: evaluation of keyword extraction weighting schemes Int J. Data Mining and Bioinformatics Vol. 1, No 1, 2006  i ve s, and J. Oliveira Concept-based knowledge discovery in texts extracted from the web ACM SIGKDD pp.29-39, July 2000  u b and D. R s n er, ìMining as sociation rules fro m  unstructured documents,î in Proc. 3 rd Int. Conf. on Knowledge Mining ICKM Prague, Czech Republic, Aug. 25-27, 2006, pp. 167-172  D. Rˆsner, N Is m a il, and F. Torkey  A text m i ning  technique using a ssociation rules extraction Int. J. of Computational Intelligence WASET, Vol. 4, Nr.1, 2007  a ju m d er, M  M i tra, and B. Chaudhuri, ìN-gram: a language independent appr oach to IR and NLP Int. Conf. on Universal Knowledge and Language  ICUKL India November 2002  K. Ober m a y e r \(2 009\of concept based keyw ord extraction for tag recomm Available http://www.kde.cs.unikassel.de/ws/dc09/papers/paper_17.pdf   2009 a l library of Medi cine website [Online Available http://www.nlm.nih.gov   a k, ìDiscovering know le dge from XML documents,î In Wong John, Eds. Encyclopedia of Data Warehousing and Mining. Idea Group Publications 2005  onstrained association rules to predict heart disease,î in Pr oc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Data Mining, ICDM 2001, San Jose, CA, USA , 2001, pp. 433ñ440  Yong Youn, and U Kim, ìA new method for mining association rules from a collection of XML documents ICCSA 2005 LNCS 3481, pp. 936ñ945, 2005 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2005  I W itten, S  Cunningha m  and G. Buchanan S calable browsing f or large collections: a case study 5 th Conf. digital Libraries  Texas, pp.215-218, 2000   M. Roche J¥erom e Az¥e, O. Matte-Tailliez, and Y. Kodratoff  Mining texts by association rules discovery in a technical corpus  Intelligent Information Processing and Web Mining Proc. of the Int. IIS: IIPWM'04  Conf held in Zakopane, Poland, May 17-20, 2004      M ining association rules fro m a collection of XML documents using cross filtering algorithm Int. Conf. on Hybrid Information Technology \(ICHIT'06 IEEE, 2006    W   W a n, and G. Dobbie Extr acting association rules from XML documents using XQuery,î in Proc. of the 5th ACM Int. Workshop on Web Information and Data Management \(WIDMí03 2003, pp.94ñ97  e iss, N Indurkhya, T. Zhang and F. Damerau TEXT MIN ING Predictive Methods for Analyzing Unstructured Information Springer Science-business Media, Inc. 2005  Li a nd T. Leong, ìAutomated kno wledge extraction for decision model construction: A data mining approach AMIA  Annual  Symposium Proc pp. 758-762, 2003  2009 bMed website [Online]. Available http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed  


To resolve this problem, we proposed a new KDD model. It consists of two steps: the first organizes the database records in homogeneous clusters having common properties which permit to deduce the dataís semantic. This step consists of TAHís and MTAH generation of relieving attributes. The second permits to Discovering Knowledge. It consists to deduce the Fuzzy  Cluster Lattice corresponding to MTAH lattice generated in the first step, then traverse this lattice to extract the Meta Knowledge \( Set of fuzzy associations meta-rules on the clusters \, and in end deduce the rules modeling the Knowledge \(Set of fuzzy associations rules on the attributes\While basing on the hierarchical structure offered by the lattices, we proceed to discover the Knowledge in a hierarchical way. Thus, according to the degree of detail required by the user, this approach proposes a level of knowledge and different views of this knowledge Moreover, this solution is extensible; the user is able to choose the fuzzy method of classification according to the domain of his data and his needs This solution reduced considerably the number of generated rules, offered a better interpretation of the data and optimized both the space memory and the execution time As futures perspectives of this work, we mention 1\o test our approach on several the large data set, and 2\ to define a new intelligent method of evaluation of requests which takes into account the Meta knowledge and/or the knowledge base generated by our KDD model XI  R EFERENCES  1  P. Berkhin, ìSurvey of clustering data mining techniquesì, Technical report, Accrue Software, 2002 2  M. Zaki, ìMining Non-Redundant Association Rulesî, Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, No 9, 2004, p. 223ñ248 3  G. Stumme, R.Taouil, Y. Bastide, N. Pasquier, and     L. Lakhal Intelligent structuring and reducing of association rules with formal concept analysisî, Proceedings of KIí2001 Conference, Vienna Austria, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 2174, SpringerVerlag, September 2001, p. 335ñ350 4  N. Pasquier ìData Mining : Algorithmes d'Extraction et de RÈduction des RËgles d'Association dans les Bases de DonnÈesî, ThËse DÈpartement díInformatique et Statistique, FacultÈ des Sciences Economiques et de Gestion, Lyon, 2000 5  R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and Swami A., ìMining Association Rules between sets of items in large Databasesî, Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD Intl. Conference on Management of Data, Washington USA, June 1993, p. 207-216 6  R. Agrawal, and R. Skirant. ìFast algoritms for mining association rulesî. In Proceedings of the 20th Int'l Conference on Very Large Databases, pages 478-499, June 1994 7  N. Pasquier, Y. Bastide, R.Taouil, and L. Lakhal,          ì Efficient Mining of Association Rules Using Closed Itemset Lattices Information Systems Journal, vol. 24, no 1, 1999, p. 25-46 8  M. J. Zaki, and C. J. Hsiao, ì CHARM : An Efficient Algorithm for Closed Itemset Mining î, Proceedings of the 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, Arlington, April 2002, p. 34-43 9  G. Stumme, R. Taouil, Bastide Y., Pasquier N., and L. Lakhal, ìFast Computation of Concept Lattices Using Data Mining Techniques BOUZEGHOUB M., KLUSCH M., NUTT W., SATTLER U., Eds Proceedings of 7th Intl. Workshop on Knowledge Representation Meets Databases \(KRDBí00\Berlin, Germany, 2000, p. 129-139 10  G. Stumme, R.Taouil, Y. Bastide, N. Pasquier, and     L. Lakhal Computing Iceberg Concept Lattices with TITANICî, J. on Knowledge and Data Engineering \(KDE\ vol. 2, no 42, 2002, p. 189222 11  S. Ben Tekaya, S. Ben Yahia, and Y. Slimani. ìAlgorithme de construction d`un treillis des concepts formels et de dÈtermination des gÈnÈrateurs minimauxî, ARIMA journal, Novembre 2005, NumÈro spÈcial CARI'04, pages: 171-193, 2005 12  T. Hamrouni, S. Ben Yahia, and Y. Slimani. ìPrince : Extraction optimisÈe des bases gÈnÈriques  de rËgles sans calcul de fermetures In Proceedings of the Intl. INFORSID Conference, Editions Inforsid Grenoble, France, pages : 353--368, 24-27 May 2005 13  B. Ganter, and R. Wille, Formal Concept Analysis: mathematical foundations. \(translated from the German by Cornelia Franzke Springer-Verlag, Berlin-Hei delberg 1999 14  T.Thanh, H.Siu Cheung, and C. Tru Hoang, ìA Fuzzy FCA-based Approach to Conceptual Clustering for Automatic Generation of Concept Hierarchy on Uncertainty Data.î ,CLA 2004, pp. 1ñ12 ISBN 80-248-0597-9 15  L. Zadeh. Fuzzy sets. Inform ation and Control, \(69\338-353, June 1965 16  M. Sassi, M., A. Grissa Touzi, and H. Ounelli, ì ìInterpretting Fuzzy Clustering Results based on Fuzzy Formal Concept Analyisî, IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems. Imperial College London, UK, 2007 17  A. Grissa Touzi, M. Sassi, and H. Ounelli,  ìUsing Formal Concept Analysis for Flexible Querying Optimizationî, 23nd International Conference on Computers and Their  Applications, \(CATAí08 Mexico, Avril 2008 18  A. Grissa Touzi, M. Sassi, and H. Ounelli, ìAn innovative contribution to flexible query through the fusion of conceptual clustering, fuzzy logic, and formal concept analysisî, International Journal of Computers and Their Applications. Volume. 16, N∞. 4, pp 220-233, December, 2009 19  M. Sassi, A. Grissa Touzi, and H. Ounelli, ìA Fuzzy Linguistic Database Summarization Approachî, Fuzzy Systems Conference IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems.   Hong Kong, Juin 2008 20  J.C,  Bezdeck,  R.Ehrlich,  and  W.Full,  "FCM: The Fuzzy  C-Means Clustering Algorithm", Computers and Geoscience, vol. 10, no. 2-3 pp. 191ñ203, 1984 21  N. Pasquier, Y. Bastide, R.Tou il, and L.Lakhal, ìPruning closed itemset lattices for association rulesî, Proceedings of 14th International Conference Bases de DonnÈes AvancÈes, Hammamet Tunisia, 26ñ30 October 1998, p. 177ñ196 22  M. J. Zaki, ìGenerating Non-Redundant Association Rules Proceedings of the 6th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining,Boston, MA, August 2000, p 34-43 23  Y. Bastide, R.Taouil, N. Pasquier, G. Stumme, and L.Lakhal Mining frequent patterns with counting inferenceî, SIGKDD Explorations, vol. 2, no 2, 2000, p. 66-75 24  B. Ganter, ìTwo basics algorithms in concept analysisî, Technical report, Darmstadt, 1984 
134 


   


                        





