Goodput and Delay in Netw orks with Contr olled Mobility  Ameesh P andya Booz Allen Hamilton Los Angeles CA 90025 pandya ameesh@bah.com Aman Kansal Microsoft Research Redmond W A 98052 kansal@microsoft.com Gre g Pottie Uni v ersity of California Los Angeles Los Angeles CA 90024 pottie@ee.ucla.edu Abstr act  The use of mobility has been sho wn to be benecial in wireless ad hoc and sensor netw orks for impro ving communication performance and other functionality  This paper discusses the communication throughput goodput and delay considerations when a set of mobile nodes is used as relays to transfer data among multiple static nodes 
While pre vious w ork has considered randomly mobile nodes we consider controlled mobile agents Randomly mobile agents are not a v ailable in man y netw ork scenarios such as embedded sensor netw ork deplo yments and the use of controllably mobile agents has been considered for such netw orks W e deri v e results for the w orst case delay  throughput and goodput with controllably mobile relays Our analysis indicates that this scenario dif fers fundamentally from the random mobility case This scenario could ho we v er  be used in defense applications for better communications yield Further  our results are guaranteed to be achie v ed in a particular topology  as opposed to pre 
vious results which are probabilistic for a particular deplo yment W e also discuss practical algorithms that can be used to control the routes of mobile agents T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S 1 I N T R O D U C T I O N                                    1 2 C A P A C I T Y O F T H E M O B I L E C H A N N E L W I T H C O N T R O L L E D M O 
B I L E A G E N T S                   2 3 M O B I L E R O U T I N G P R O T O C O L S                   5 4 C O N C L U S I O N S                                     6 R E F E R E N C E S          
                            6 B I O G R A P H Y                                        7 1  I N T R O D U C T I O N Mobility has traditionally been considered an o v erhead for netw orks because protocol stacks had to pro vide additional 1-4244-1488-1/08 25  00 c  2008 IEEE IEEEA C P aper 1627 V ersion 6 
Updated 05 January 2008 functionality to allo w mobile users 1 2 3 4 More recently  ho we v er  mobility has been found to be useful for wireless ad hoc netw orks for increasing their throughput capacity 5 6 7 8 These adv antages are accrued by utilizing the mobility of the nodes for transferring data Mobility pro vides additional capacity to the netw ork o v er and abo v e the wireless channel amongst static nodes alone Mobility can be classied as follo ws 1 Random Mobility  The nodes are assumed to mo v e in an arbitrarily random pattern typically modelled as uniform Bro wnian motion for analytical con v enience Throughput has been studied for 
the cases when all nodes mo v e 5 8 7 and when only a subset of the nodes mo v e 6 9 2 Pr edictable Mobility  This model assumes that the pattern of mobility of the mobile nodes is kno wn and this kno wledge can be e xploited to route data 10 11 12 The mobile agents are not mo ving for the purpose of data transfer and hence their paths may not coincide with the routing requirements 3 Contr olled Mobility  Here the mobility pattern of the mobiles is completely under the control of the netw ork Prototypes of such netw orks ha v e been considered 13 14 15 W e consider the third cate gory  
the netw ork with controlled mobile agents and characterize its delay and goodput proper ties Further  attainable throughput for such a netw ork is also discussed Our analysis sho ws that there are fundamental differences in these properties when the mobility is controlled as opposed to when the mobility is random or predictable Also note that using controlled mobility  we are able to ensure per formance for an y arbitrary topology  The results deri v ed for random models only pro vide the e xpected throughput and delay considered o v er multiple topologies and not what w ould be achie v ed in a particular deplo yment nor what could be guaranteed in the w orst case 1 


The Need for Contr olled Mobility Random mobility is not a v alid model in all classes of wireless ad hoc netw orks In particular  sensor netw orks are autonomous embedded systems and do not in v olv e user carried nodes Most of their nodes are either static or mounted on robots which can be controlled as per application requirements Further  the use of controlled mobility has se v eral adv antages in wireless ad hoc and sensor netw orks Example of such a scenarios is Netw ork ed Infomechanical System NIMS as sho wn in Figure 1 In NIMS the mobile sensor nodes are loaded on a trolle y and hence pro viding infrastructure for the mobility  These mobile sensor nodes are used to collect the data such as en vironmental habitat etc from the static nodes deplo yed on the ground Figur e 1  Example of Controlled Mobility Netw ork ed Infomechanical System NIMS First the mobile nodes can help sa v e ener gy in static embedded nodes This is because if the mobile nodes are used for carrying data then the static nodes need not relay data from other nodes o v er multi-hop wireless routes The e xtra ener gy o v erhead of mobility is not a major concern as these nodes are mobile and can thus periodically rechar ge themselv es Self rechar ging robots ha v e been prototyped such as the robot tor toise described in 16 and the commercially a v ailable Son y Aibo 17 Second mobile agents can be used to connect sparse and disjoint netw orks P articular netw ork components can get disconnected due to deterioration in channel conditions and these can be connected using mobile components Third the number of wireless hops tra v elled by a data pack et is reduced and this reduces the possibility of pack et error  helping enhance goodput performance and delays due to retransmission There are other adv antages of using mobile components for impro ving netw ork sustainability  It w as sho wn in 18 that time synchronization error increases with increasing number of hops between tw o nodes Using the mobiles for time synchronization reduces the hop distance between nodes and hence much ner time synchronization is possible than in a multi-hop case Controlled mobility also helps impro v e the performance of localization systems 19 Mobile components can support other system acti vities such as deli v ering required resources 20 21 Thus the used of control mobility is helpful in se v eral situations and it is w orthwhile to study the performance consider ations for such a scenario The paper is or g anized as follo ws Section 2 states the problem setup and analyzes the achie v able goodput and delay  Along with the discussion on throughput some special cases and comparisons with other mobility models are also presented Practical methods for routing the mobile agents are discussed in section 3 The paper is concluded in section 4 Related W ork The capacity of wireless netw orks w as rst e v aluated in 22 The y assumed a netw ork of n randomly deplo yed nodes in a unit area disc and found the a v erage throughput if sources and destinations are chosen randomly across the netw ork The throughput per node w as found to be   1  p n log n  1  F or the model considered in 22 if the traf c pattern is such that the a v erage distance between source and destination nodes remains small as the netw ork gro ws then the throughput per node w as deri v ed to be O 1 in 23 The use of mobility w as considered in 5 The y assumed all nodes to be randomly mobile within a unit disc area Data traf c pattern w as assumed to be random as in 22 Data tra v eled o v er only tw o wireless hops from the source node to a mobile node which acted as relay and then from the relay to the destination W ith this model the throughput w as found to be 1  Later  8 sho wed that if the mobility w as restricted to one dimension only  the constant order throughout can still be achie v ed The delay for the abo v e scenarios w as found in 7 The y also discussed algorithms for impro ving throughput at the cost of delay and vice v ersa The y found the delay D  n  to be related to the throughput T  n  as D  n    nT  n  for the wireless netw ork scenario of 22 F or the model in 5 when the nodes are randomly mobile with a v erage v elocity v  n   the y found the delay to scale as  p n v  n   Ho we v er  it should be noted that this is for one particular scheme Another scenario for a netw ork with mobile nodes w as considered in 6 The netw ork consisted of n static nodes which acted as sources and destinations for data Ho we v er  the netw ork also had m randomly mobile nodes which were used as relays F or this model using the routing scheme proposed in 6 the throughout is O  m=n log 3 n  with an a v erage delay of 2 d=v where d is the diameter of the netw ork and v is the v elocity of the mobile nodes W e consider a similar model 1 W e use the usual notation f  n   O  g  n  means that there e xists a constant c and an inte ger N such that f  n   cg  n  for n  N  f  n    g  n  means that f  n   O  g  n  and g  n   O  f  n   2 


with n static and m mobile nodes b ut the mobility is controlled instead of random The problem is dened in greater detail in the ne xt section 2  C A P A C I T Y O F T H E M O B I L E C H A N N E L W I T H C O N T R O L L E D M O B I L E A G E N T S Let us rst consider the netw ork scenario as considered in 5 where all nodes are mobile e xcept that instead of considering the nodes to be randomly mobile we assume their motion is controlled F or this case an ob vious communication strate gy is for each source to mo v e to its destination and communicate at almost zero range Hence interference among simultaneous transmissions is zero and each sender recei v er pair could utilize the full a v ailable bandwidth W  The per node throughput is W with constant delay  The delay here depends on the tra veling time of mobile nodes to reach their destinations which is constant as netw ork area is constant This is signicantly better than the w orst case delay in 5 which is innite Clearly  controlled mobility has the potential to yield fundamentally dif ferent goodput throughput and delay limits compared to those achie v ed with random mobility in 5 6 W e no w consider a more practical scenario wherein all nodes are not mobile b ut a small number of controllably mobile agents are a v ailable for routing data Pr oblem Statement Assume n nodes deplo yed randomly in a unit area disc An y node in the netw ork may ha v e data to be sent to an y other node Further  m mobile agents are a v ailable whose paths can be controlled as per the data requirements Here m could potentially be much smaller than n  The mobile tra v els close to the source location collects its data o v er a wireless link and then tra v els to the destination location and deli v ers the data to the destination node ag ain using a wireless link The path from the source to destination may not be direct b ut may inv olv e servicing other data transfer requests in between This is because using one mobile to serv e only one source destination pair at one time does not necessarily yield optimal path planning for the mobiles and we allo w the mobiles to collect data from multiple sources for multiple destinations depending on the node locations Figure 2 sho ws the problem scenario The bandwidth of communication on the wireless channel is W  Note that W could potentially be v ery high as the mobile node can tra v el v ery close to the static node Ho we v er  we perform the analysis for an y a v ailable W  The v elocity of the mobile nodes is denoted by v meters/sec  F or ease of e xposition we assume that each source has k bits for its destination Some nodes may ha v e less than k bits ho we v er using k for all nodes suf ces for e v aluating w orst case limits W e consider the problem of determining the achie v able goodput and delay e xperienced by an y data pack et in the abo v e netw ork scenario in the w orst case W e later also discuss the problem of allotting the optimal paths to the mobile nodes for routing data and throughput that could be obtained from such Source Destination Figur e 2  Netw ork with mobile and static nodes The diamond shaped nodes in red represent the mobile nodes and the circular nodes in blue are the static nodes netw orks The netw ork model described abo v e could be implemented for defense applications F or instance sensors or an y nodes with the controlled mobility could be used to collect the surv eillance data from the deplo yed static nodes This approach as sho wn ne xt is the most ef cient for delay sensiti v e data and pro viding high goodput and throughput Solution Let us calculate the delay suf fered by a k bit pack et in tra v elling from its source to destination after it is ready to be transmitted at the source F or calculating the w orst case achie vable delay  we assume that each mobile serv es n=m sender recei v er pairs Depending on what metric is used for optimizing the paths of the mobile nodes the actual allocation may de viate from this equitable allotment we consider practical methods for such allotment in Section 3 The delay and goodput deri v ed belo w are denitely achie v able using the potentially sub-optimal equitable allotment The sender recei v er pairs need not be addressed one after the other  rather multiple such pairs will be simultaneously serv ed Instead of calculating the w orst case delay indi vidually  we e v aluate the delay and goodput for a group of n=m nodes serv ed by a single mobile Since not all pack ets suf fer the w orst case delay  this method allo ws us to calculate the achie v ed goodput for all the data rather than just for the node which happens to get the w orst case delay  This total delay in serving n=m requests is also the w orst case delay suf fered by a pack et since the w orst case pack et w ould be the one which is serv ed last in the group The delay can be calculated as follo ws 1 Mobile collects data from source:This time is the summation of follo wing terms a Contention near source When the mobile arri v es at a source there may be other mobiles too at this node deli v ering 3 


data destined for this node Assume that the traf c pattern is such that at most  nodes could send data to a particular node Then the maximum number of mobiles which can be present at a node   to deli v er can be   min    m  1 Hence the time spent w aiting for these transmissions becomes d 1   k W  where W is the bandwidth used for communication among static and mobile nodes This communication occurs at v ery small range and does not interfere with other communication in the netw ork b W ireless data communication delay The time tak en to send k bits from the source to the mobile agent will be d 2  k W  c Motion delay The distance to a source from the previous node serv ed can be at most 1   the diameter of the netw ork with unit area Hence this delay is d 3  1    v  where v is the speed of the mobile 2 T ime to tra v el from a serv ed node to a destination This can be at most d 4  1    v  as e xplained for the tra v el time tak en to reach a source The delay  d 4  needs to be added in addition to d 3 since d 3 only calculates the time tak en to arri v e at sources and not at destinations Adding these will gi v e the per request tra v el time 3 Contention at destination This is d 5   k W as w as the contention at source 4 T ime to deli v er at destination The transmission time at destination is d 6  k W  Thus the total delay  D  for the w orst case pack et among the n=m sender recei v er pairs serv ed by one mobile agent is the summation of the delays e v aluated abo v e D  n m  d 1  d 2  d 3  d 4  d 5  d 6  2 Substituting the v alues of f d i g 6 i 1 and simplifying we obtain D  2 n m  k W   1  1  v  3 The goodput per node can be dened as the bits transmitted by a node di vided by the time tak en for those bits Thus the goodput G  for the node with the w orst case delay is G  k D  mk W  v 2 n  k  v   1  W  4 The total goodput for the group of n=m nodes is nG=m as the total data transferred within the delay  D  w as nk m  Thus the netw ork goodput is m   nT m  since there are m groups Thus the per node goodput and delay are G  O  m=n  and D  O  n=m  respecti v ely  Thr oughput Discussion In a broad sense netw ork throughput consists of sum of the data rates that are a v ailable to nodes for simultaneous transmission in a netw ork Here we can ha v e m nodes in the netw ork simultaneously transmitting at the data rate of almost W bps considering mobile nodes tra v el v ery close to static nodes That is a v ailable netw ork throughput is f  mW   where f    indicates some real function Hence the throughput per node is T  f  mW n  bps It can be observ ed that as opposed to the pre vious results the netw ork could be made scalable Scalability Concerns Let us study the ef fect of the wireless bandwidth a v ailable among static and mobile nodes This bandwidth can be v ery lar ge as the communication range is small and f ast technologies such as UWB or a contact based transfer may be used W e let W  1 in equations 3 and 4 D W 1  2 n m v 5 T W 1  mk  v 2 n 6 As e xpected the delay and goodput are limited by the mobile v elocity  v m/s in this case While the delay is reduced compared to the case of nite W  the scalability of the netw ork delay is not af fected and hence the in v estment in lar ger bandwidth may not be recommendable if scalability is the k e y concern Ho we v er  the goodput and throughput can be v ery high here as the v alue of k used can be v ery lar ge when W  1  Consider ne xt the case when the number of mobiles used is a linear function of the number of static nodes in the netw ork i.e m  an where a is a positi v e constant potentially much less than 1 In this case   min    m    since we e xpect n and hence an to be much greater than   Here the delay and goodput can be seen to be D m  2 a  k W    1  1  v  7 G m  ak W  v 2 k  v    1  W  8 These are both independent of n and m  Hence we achie v e G  O 1 and D  O 1 for this case In this case e v en per node throughput w ould be O 1  Observ e that compared to the case of random mobility 5 where O 1 throughput is achie v ed when all n nodes are mobile using controlled mobility such throughput can be achie v ed with less than n mobile nodes Also while the w orst case delay in 5 can be innite here the w orst case delay is also O 1  Mobile and W ir eless Channels W e calculated the capacity when data is transferred using only the mobile relays and multihop wireless transmission is 4 


not e xploited Let us no w consider the capacity when the multihop relaying is used in addition to mobile agents Since the mobile router is controllably mobile it can come v ery close to the static node it is communicating with and thus cause ne gligible interference to an y other communication which may be simultaneously taking place Hence the wireless multihop relaying channel can be used simultaneously along with the mobile channel The capacity of wireless channel has already been sho wn to be   p n log n  in 22 The delay for the wireless multihop relaying channel w as calculated in 7 while the delay for the mobile channel w as sho wn in section 2 Thus data tra v eling on the tw o channels e xperiences the respecti v e delays T r ade-of fs in the Thr oughput-Delay Space The trade-of fs for throughput and delay for the models in 22 5 are considered in 7 The curv e P R S in Figure 3 2 depicts that trade-of f The se gment P R is v alid for the model in 5 where all the nodes are mobile The se gment R S holds for the model in 22 using only static nodes The per node throughput can be v aried from O 1 n  to O 1 by paying a penalty in delay  The use of controlled mobility introduces ne w possibilities sho wn along the curv e AB  Different points on the curv e AB correspond to dif ferent v alues of m  As m increases delay is reduced The point A is achie v ed with m  1 and point B is achie v ed with only a small increase to m  0  05 n  No w consider the point P in Figure 3 This point corresponds to the constant per node throughput achie v ed in 5 using the routing scheme gi v en in 7 Ho we v er the delay is O  n   The point B on the other hand sho ws constant per node throughput at constant delay using the controlled mobility model 3  M O B I L E R O U T I N G P R O T O C O L S W e no w consider practical methods to control the paths of the mobile agents This problem can be reduced to a kno wn optimization problem namely  the general pickup and deli v ery problem GPDP stated in 24 25 W e state the problem in the conte xt of routing data for our netw ork scenario Dene the follo wing v ariables N  the set of all sender recei v er pairs where the cardinality of N is n  M  the set with cardinality m  of all the mobiles N  i  the i th data source i 2 f 1  2      n g  N  i  the i th data destination corresponding to N  i  s   the start location of mobile s  where s 2 M  s   the end location of mobile s  where s 2 M  M   set of start locations of all the mobiles M   set of end locations of all the mobiles Z  M   M   2 The relati v e magnitudes of the curv es sho wn are v alid for lar ge n  since the results from 7 5 22 are v alid only at lar ge n e v en though our results are v alid for nite m and n also Figur e 3  Comparison of throughput-delay trade-of fs in controlled mobility and other models No w  8 i j 2 f N  i  N  i  Z g  let d ij and t ij denote the distance and the time tak en in tra v el respecti v ely  from location i to j  Denition 3.1 Mobile P ath A path R s for mobile s is an or dered subset Z s 2 Z such that the follo wing constraints are satised 1 Docking Constraint R s starts at s  and ends at s   2 P airing Constraint  N  i  N  i   Z s   or  N  i  N  i   Z s  N  i  N  i  This implies that if mobile s visits a data source then it must also visit the corresponding destination 3 Pr ecedence Constraint If N  i  N  i  Z s  then N  i is visited before N  i  Denition 3.2 Routing Plan for Mobile Relays A routing plan is a set of routes R  fR s js 2 Mg such that 1 R s is a v alid path for mobile s  for each s 2 M  2 f Z s j s 2 M g is a partition of Z  5 


3 f  R  denotes the cost of routing plan R  The problem of nding the routing plan for mobile relays is then min R is a routing plan f  R  9 The cost function f    depends on the required objecti v e F or instance in our problem f could quantify the w orst case delay suf fered by an y pack et when the mobiles mo v e as per plan R  Our problem is a GPDP  which is kno wn to be NP-complete 26 27 Ho we v er  se v eral applicable heuristics e xist for nding a good routing plan R  F or e xample the approximations for the static multiple v ehicle pickup and deli v ery problem in 24 28 emplo y the decomposition of the problem in clusters and chains This algorithm is based on set partitioning and column generation So f ar we did not e xplicitly consider the b uf fer limit in the mobile relays and that the sender recei v er requests may not all be kno wn at the start of the mobile relays journe y  Ho we v er  these constraints could be incorporated into the GPDP formulation and practical algorithms are also kno wn 24 29 30 Thus practical methods are a v ailable to control the trajectories of the mobile relays and can be emplo yed with the appropriate objecti v e function 4  C O N C L U S I O N S W e considered the fundamental limits on goodput throughput and delay for a netw ork with mobile nodes using a ne w model for mobility  While pre vious w ork considered random mobility patterns we discussed the scenario with controllably mobile data relays W e sa w that this scenario is applicable for an emer ging class of wireless netw ork applications such as sensor netw orks Our analysis sho wed that controlled mobility can signicantly change the throughput and delay tradeof fs In particular  netw orks scalability can be ensured using only a small fraction of mobile nodes and still achie v e constant per node throughput at constant delay  W e reduced the problem of routing mobile nodes to a special case of GPDP  This formulation allo ws optimizing for se v eral practical concerns that netw ork designers may ha v e for their particular application such as optimal number of mobile agents total tra v elling time or the w orst case data transfer delay  Fur ther w ork is required to determine the optimal combination of wireless multihop routing and the use of mobile relays to obtain a required performance for a gi v en netw ork size R E F E R E N C E S 1 C Lin and M Gerla  Adapti v e clustering for mobile wireless netw orks  IEEE J ournal of Selected Ar eas in Communications  v ol 15 no 7 pp 1265–1275 1997 Online A v ailable citeseer ist.psu.edu/lin97adapti v e.html 2 J K empf and P  Y e g ani Openran A ne w architecture for mobile wireless internet radio access netw orks  IEEE Communications Ma gazine  v ol 40 pp 118–123 May 2002 3 S Baatz M Frank R Gopf f arth D Kassatkine P  Mar tini M Scetelig and A V ila v aara Handof f support for mobility with ip o v er bluetooth  in Pr oceedings of the 25th Annual Confer ence on Local Computer Networks LCN00  T ampa FL No v ember 2000 4 C Perkins Ip mobility support  http://www ietf.or g/rfc/rfc2002.txt October 1996 internet RFC 2002 5 M Grossglauser and D Tse Mobility increases the capacity of ad-hoc wireless netw orks  in IEEE INFOCOM  2001 pp 1360–1369 6 N Bansal and Z Liu Capacity  Delay and Mobility in W ireless Ad-Hoc Netw orks  in IEEE INFOCOM 2003  San Francisco CA April 1–3 2003 7 A Gamal J Mammen B Prabhakar  and D Shah Throughput-Delay T rade-of f in W ireless Netw orks  in IEEE INFOCOM 2004  Hong K ong March 7–11 2004 8 S Digg a vi M Grossglauser  and D Tse Ev en onedimensional mobility increases ad hoc wireless capacity   Lausanne Switzerland June 2002 9 S Jain R Shah G Borriello W  Brunette and S Ro y  Exploiting mobility for ener gy ef cient data collection in sensor netw orks  in Modeling and Optimization in Mobile  Ad Hoc and W ir eless Networks W iOpt  2004 10 A Chakrabarty  A Sabharw al and B Aazhang Using predictable observ er mobility for po wer ef cient design of a sensor netw ork  in Second International W orkshop on Information Pr ocessing in Sensor Networks\(IPSN  P alo Alto CA USA April 2003 pp 129–145 11 S Jain K F all and R P atra Routing in a delay toler ant netw ork  in SIGCOMM  2004 12 A Pentland R Fletcher  and A Hasson Daknet rethinking connecti vity in de v eloping nations  IEEE Computer  v ol 37 no 1 pp 78–83 January 2004 13 A Kansal A Somasundara D Jea M Sri v asta v a and D Estrin Intelligent uid infrastructure for embedded netw orks  in The Second International Confer ence on Mobile Systems Applications and Services MobiSys  June 2004 14 W  Zhao M Ammar  and E Ze gura  A message ferrying approach for data deli v ery in sparse mobile ad hoc netw orks  in The fth A CM International Symposium on Mobile Ad Hoc Networking and Computing MobiHoc  2004 15 W  Kaiser  G Pottie M Sri v asta v a G Sukhatme J V illasenor  and D Estrin Netw ork ed infomechanical systems NIMS for ambient intelligience  Centre F or 6 


Embedded Netw ork ed Sensing UCLA T ech Rep 31 2003 http://www cens.ucla.edu 16 W  W alter  The Living Br ain  Duckw orth London England 1953 17 Son y aibo ERS–7  http://www son y net/Products/aibo 18 J Elson L Girod and D Estrin Fine-grained netw ork time synchronization using reference broadcasts  February 2002 19 J Scott and M Hazas User friendly surv e ying techniques for location-a w are systems  in Ubicomp  October 2003 20 A LaMarca W  Brunette D K oizumi M Lease S Sigurdsson K Sik orski D F ox and G Borriello Plantcare An in v estig ation in practical ubiquitous systems  in Ubicomp  September 2002 21 M Rahimi H Shah G Sukhatme J Heidemann and D Estrin Studying the feasibility of ener gy harv esting in a mobile sensor netw ork  May 2003 22 P  Gupta and P  K umar  The capacity of wireless netw orks  IEEE T r ansactions on Information Theory  v ol 46 23 J Li C Blak e D Couto H Lee and R Morris Capacity of ad hoc wireless netw orks  in Mobile Computing and Networking  2001 pp 61–69 24 M Sa v elsber gh and M Sol The general pickup and deli v ery problem  T r ansportation Science  v ol 29 25 Y  Dumas J Desrosiers and F  Soumis The pickup and deli v ery problem with time windo ws  Eur opean J ournal of Oper ational Resear c h  v ol 54 26 P  K eskinocak and S T ayur  Scheduling of time-shared jet aircraft  T r ansportation Science  v ol 3 27 K Castelino R DSouza and P  Wright T ool-path optimization for minimizing airtime during machining  Accepted for publication in J ournal of Manufacturing Systems  28 F  Cullen J Jarvis and H Ratlif f Set partitioning based heuristics for interacti v e routing netw orks  Networks  no 11 pp 125–143 1981 29 J Desrosiers G Laporte M Sauv e F  Soumis and S T aillefer  V ehicle routing with full loads  Computer Oper ations Resear c h  v ol 15 no 3 pp 219–226 1988 30 H Psaraftis V ehicle Routing methods and Studies  1988 ch Dynamic v ehicle routing problems pp 223 248 B I O G R A P H Y Dr  Ameesh P andya recei v ed his MS 2001 and PhD 2004 in Electrical Engineering from Uni v ersity of California Los Angeles UCLA His research interests include Information Theory  Communication Systems Operations Research Sensor and W ireless Netw orks Satellite Systems and Cogniti v e Radios He has numerous publications in conferences and journals He has also authored chapters for v arious books and re vie wed papers for journals and conferences Dr  P andya is also recipient of man y a w ards in both academics and athletics Currently  he is w orking as a Lead Engineer at Booz Allen Hamilton for TSA T SE&I Program Dr  Aman Kansal is a Researcher in the Netw ork ed Embedded Computing group at Microsoft Research Kansal recei v ed his PhD in Electrical Engineering from Uni v ersity of California Los Angeles He recei v ed his Master in Communications and Signal Processing and BS in Electrical Engineering from Indian Institute of T echnology Bombay  His research interests include sensor actuator netw orks perv asi v e computing wireless and mobile computing and embedded systems Most recently  his w ork has encompassed shared sensor netw orks of mobile phones webcams and other sensors controlled mobility in sensor netw orks and ener gy harv esting theory and systems Dr  Gr eg P ottie w as born in W ilmington DE and raised in Otta w a Canada He recei v ed his B.Sc in Engineer ing Ph ysics from Queen s Uni v ersity  Kingston Ontario in 1984 and his M.Eng and Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from McMaster Uni v ersity  Hamilton Ontario in 1985 and 1988 respecti v ely  From 1989 to 1991 he w ork ed in the transmission research department of Motorola/Code x in Canton MA with projects related to v oice band modems and digital subscriber lines Since 1991 he has been a f aculty member of the UCLA Electrical Engineering Department serving in vicechair roles from 1999-2003 Since 2003 he has also serv ed as Associate Dean for Research and Ph ysical Resources of the Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science His research interests include reliable communications wireless communication systems and wireless sensor netw orks His current focus is on the information theory of sensor netw orks From 1997 to 1999 he w as secretary to the board of go v ernors for the IEEE Information Theory Society  In 1998 he recei v ed the Allied Signal A w ard for outstanding f aculty research for UCLA engineering In 2005 he became a Fello w of the IEEE for contrib utions to the modeling and applications of sensor netw orks Dr  Pottie is the deputy director of 7 


the NSF-sponsored science and technology Center for Embedded Netw ork ed Sensing a member of the Bruin Master s Swim Club b uttery and the St Alban s Choir 2nd bass 8 


   9 Diagnosis\227Their Effectiveness and Flexibilities Journal of vibration and acoustics, Vol. 123 \(3\ pp. 303 - 310 7 Y a ng  Y  Yu  D J C h en g JS \(2 007  A fault diagnosis approach for roller bearing based on IMF envelope spectrum and SVM Measurement Vol. 40\(9-10\pp. 943 950 8  X F 2 00 7  A joint wavelet lifting and independent component analysis approach to fault detection of rolling element bearings Smart Materials & Structures Vol.16 \(5 pp. 1973-1987 9 n t o n i J R a n d a ll RB 2006  The spectral kurtosis application to the vibratory surveillance and diagnostics of rotating machines Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, Vol. 20\(6\, pp. 308 \226 331 10 Stack JR H a r l ey RG H a b e tler TG   2004  An amplitude modulation detector for fault diagnosis in rolling element bearings IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 51 \(5\, pp. 1097-1102 1 Le ona rd  N E. a n d Kri s hna p r asad P S  1 9 9 2   Adaptive Friction Compensation for Bi- Directional LowVelocity Position Tracking Proceeding of the 31st Conference on Decision and Control, Tucson, Arizona, pp 267-273 12 Ar m s tr o n g H e louv r y B   199 1  Control of Machines with Friction Kluwer Academic Publishers 1 K h ons ari  M M and B o os er, ER  2 0 0 8   Applied Tribology- Bearing Design and Lubrication John Wiley and Sons, 2 nd Edition, Sussex, UK 1 M i y a ke S  and Ta kahas h i  S 1 9 8 7   Small \226Angle Oscillatory Performance of Solid-Lubricant Film Bearings For Vacuum Applications ASLE Transactions, V. 30, pp 248-253  H a n d Mack, RA \(1975 Experimental Investigation of Torque Noise in Satellite Bearings Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets V. 12, pp. 146-150  MN and Ha rris  T A 2001 Fatigue Failure Progression in Ball Bearings Journal of Tribology, V. 123 pp. 238-242 1  Oca k H  L opa r o KA 2 0 0 1   A new bearing fault detection and diagnosis scheme based on hidden Markov modeling of vibration signals Proceedings of  2001 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, Volume 5, 7-11 May 2001 Page\(s\:3141 - 3144 vol.5 1 Z h an g X  Xu R Kwa n C Lian g SY  Xie Q Hay n es L  2005 An integrated approach to bearing fault diagnostics and prognostics Proceedings of American Control Conference, 8-10 June 2005 Page\(s\:2750 - 2755 vol. 4 19 Ling B, Kh on sar i MM \(20 07  Online Tribology Ball Bearing Fault Detection and Identification Proceedings of SPIE Defense and Security Symposium, 9 - 13 April 2007 Orlando, Florida 2 Hic k ey RJ  1 9 8 3  Majorization, randomness and some discrete distributions J. Appl. Prob. 20, 897-902 2  W i gne r E P  19 5 1  On a class of analytic functions from the quantum theory of collisions Ann. Math. 53, 36 22 D yso n F 1 962  Statistical theory of the energy levels of complex systems J. math. Phys. 3, 140 23 Rojk ov  V, Kh alil Y Elmag h rab y A Kan t arzic M 2007 Use of simulation and random matrix theory to identify the state of network traffic 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Signal Processing and Information Technology 24 Plerou  V   G o p i kr ishn an  P, Rosenow B, A m ar al L Guhr T, Stanley H \(2002 Random matrix approach to cross correlations in financial data Physical Review E. Vol. 65 2 R o bert s  E W 19 8 7  The tribology of sputtered molybdenum disulfide film Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Tribology-Friction Lubrication, Fifty Years on, V. 1, pp. 503-510 26 Jayn es ET \(1 957   Information theory and statistical mechanics Phys Rev 106:620-630   Dr. Ling received his M.S. in Applied Mathematics \(1990\ Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering \(1993\, both from Michigan State University. He has served as a Principle Investigator for numerous government funded research projects. He is a co-founder and President & CEO of Migma Systems, Inc. Dr. Ling is a Senior IEEE Member \(1998\nd a part-time faculty member at Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Northeastern Un iversity, teaching graduate courses of engineering mathematics, digital control systems and statistical signal pr ocessing since 2002  Michael Khonsari  received his Ph.D from The University of Texas at Austin. He holds the Dow Chemical Endowed Chaired Professorship in Mechanical Engineering at Louisiana State University \(LSU where he directs the Center for Rotating Machinery \(CeRoM\r to joining LSU, he served as a faculty at The Ohio State University University of Pittsburgh, and Southern Illinois University He also served as a Faculty Fellow at NASA Glenn Research Center, Wright-Patterson Air Force, and DOE Pittsburgh Energy Technology Ce nter. His research interest is in the area of tribology. He has published over 150 archival journal articles in this field  Ataollah Mesgarne jad received his B.Sc. degree from Islamic Azad University in 2005 and his M.Sc from Amirkabir University of Technology in 2007 at Tehran Iran, in Mechani cal Engineering Since 2008 he is pursuing his Ph.D. degree in department of mechanical engineering and is a research assistantship in Cent er of Rotating Machinery in Louisiana State University. Hi s research interests include 


   10 stress analysis of soft thin coatings and prognosis analysis of coated mechanical components  Ross Hathaway is the Propulsion Group Lead in the Aerodynamic and Propulsion Research Branch at NASA Dryden Flight Research Center.  He has over 30 years in the aerospace field with flight test experience on a variety of aircraft such as F-15, F/A-18, AV-8B, C-17 MD-90, X-43 and X-45A. Mr Hathaway received a BS in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Missouri Columbia in 1974 and a MS in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Missouri, Rolla in 1984. Mr. Hathaway has a broad range of knowledge and experience on anything related to propulsion and flight testing.  He was the Dryden Chief Engineer on the Unpiloted Combat Air Vehicle program and is currently the Dryden Chief Engineer on any NASA related C-17 flight testi ng.  He is also the COTR on several SBIR/STTR contracts such as the Online Real-Time Tribology Failure Detection System Phase II STTR  


Information content is improved by identifying key target characteristics such as turning ratio threat level and mul titarget separation Increasing information content while d ecreasing bandwidth is the goal of the Boeing Intelligent Gat eway BIG being developed BIG is an intelligent gateway that uses a highly parallel state machine to implement a set o f distributed services such as intelligent data association for improving the quality of information with reduced bandwidth R EFERENCES 1 S  S  B l a c k m a n   M u l t i p l e t a r g e t t r a c k i n g w i t h r a d a r a p plications in Artech House  1986 pp 357–395 2 P  K  B  S  Y  C h u m m u n M  R   K i r u b a r a j a n T    F a s t data association using multidimensional assignment with clustering in IEEE trans On Aerospace and Electronic Systems  Vol 37 No 3 2001 pp 898–912 3 S  T  K  P  T c h a m o v a A   D e z e r t J    T a r g e t t r a c k i n g w i t h generalized data assocoation based on the general dsm rule of combinaton in Proceedings of Fusion 2004  Stockholm Sweden 4 M  L o o k s  A  L e v i n e  G  A  C o v i n g t o n  R  P  L o u i  J W Lockwood and Y H Cho Streaming hierarchical clustering for concept mining in Aerospace Conference AERO  Mar 2007 pp 1–12 5 R  D u d a a n d P  H a r t  Pattern Classication and Scene Analysis  John Wiley and Sons Mar 1973 6 M  E s t l i c k  M  L e e s e r  J  T h e i l e r  a n d J  J  S z y m a n s k i  Algorithmic transformations in the implementation of kmeans clustering on recongurable hardware in FPGA  2001 pp 103–110 Online  A v a i l a b l e  citeseer.ist.psu.edu/estlick01algorithmic.html 7 M  L e e s e r  J  T h e i l e r  M  E s t l i c k  N  K i t a r y e v a  and J Szymanski Effect of data truncation in an implementation of pixel clustering on a custom computing machine 2000 Online  A v a i l a b l e  citeseer.ist.psu.edu/leeser00effect.html 8 G  A  C o v i n g t o n  C  L  C o m s t o c k  A  A  L e v i n e  J  W  Lockwood and Y H Cho High speed document clustering in reconigurable hardware in 16th Annual Conference on Field Programmable Logic and Applications FPL  Madrid Spain Aug 2006 pp 411–417 9 A  N g  M  J o r d a n  a n d Y  W e i s s   O n s p e c t r a l clustering Analysis and an algorithm 2001 Online  Available citeseer.ist.psu.edu/ng01spectral.html 10 C  E  S H A N N O N   C o m m u n i c a t i o n i n t h e p r e s e n c e o f noise in PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE VOL 86 NO 2  1998 pp 447–457 11 J  W  L o c k w o o d  N  M c K e o w n  G  W a t s o n  G  G i b b  P Hartke J Naous R Raghuraman and J Luo Netfpga an open platform for gigabit-rate network switching and routing in International Conference on Microelectronic Systems Education  2007 12 J  L u o  J  P e t t i t  M  C a s a d o  J  L o c k w o o d  a n d N  M c K eown Prototyping fast simple secure switches for ethane in Hot Interconnects  Stanford CA Aug 2007 13 N  D u k k i p a t i  G  G i b b  N  M c K e o w n  a n d J  Z h u  Building a rcp rate control protocol test network in Hot Interconnects  Stanford CA Aug 2007 pp 91–98 B IOGRAPHY John Meier is a Boeing Technical Fellow in the Network Centric Thrust at Phantom Works NCO Thrust He has over 27 years of professional experience in avionic technology development specically working in the area of intelligent networking recongurable computing architectures and wireless network management At Boeing he is currently involved with several key technical activities including a major project on edge computing and intelligent distributed system management Mr Meier earned his BS from Southern Illinois University Carbondale SIU-C MS University of Missouri Rolla UMR and currently working on his PhD degrees from the Department Computer Science Engineering CSE at the Washington University in St Louis He is a member of IEEE and Tau Beta Pi Todd Sproull is a Doctoral Candidate pursuing his DSc in Computer Engineering at Washington University in Saint Louis He is a Research Assistant and member of the Recongurable Network Group RNG at Washington University His interests include peer-to-peer overlay networks recongurable computing and network security He has worked in the industry at Xilinx Research Labs Network Physics and IBM He earned a BS degree in Electrical Engineering at Southern Illinois Univ ersity in Edwardsville and an MS in Computer Engineering at Washington University He is a member of IEEE Tau Beta Pi and Eta Kappa Nu G Adam Covington is a Research Associate of the Recongurable Network Group RNG at Washington University in St Louis Adam's research interests include recongurable systems articial intelligence clustering and classication and applications of articial intelligence algorithms Upon completing a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Engineering in 2003 Adam earned his Masters of Science degree in Computer Science and Engineering from Washington University in December of 2006 He is currently visiting Stanford to implement data clustering on the NetFPGA platform and help assemble NetFPGA test systems 11 


John W Lockwood designs and implements networking systems in recongurable hardware During 2007 he served as a Visiting Associate Professor at Stanford University to manage the Alpha and Beta releases of the NetFPGA Prior to working at Stanford he led the the Recongurable Network Group RNG at Washington University The RNG research group developed the Field programmable Port Extender FPX to enable rapid prototype of extensible network modules in Fie ld Programmable Gate Array FPGA technology As an Associate professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Washington University in Saint Louis He has published over 75 full-length papers in journals and major technical conferences that describe technologies for prov iding extensible network services in wireless LANs and in high speed networks Professor Lockwood has served as the principal investigator on grants from the National Science Foun dation Xilinx Altera Nortel Networks Rockwell Collins  and Boeing He has worked in industry for AT&T Bell Laboratories IBM Science Applications International Corpo ration SAIC and the National Center for Supercomputing Applications NCSA He served as a co-founder of Global Velocity a networking startup company focused on high-speed data security Dr Lockwood earned his MS BS and PhD degrees from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Illinois He is a member of IEEE ACM Tau Beta Pi and Eta Kappa Nu 12 


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


