Architecture-based Integrated Management of Cloud Resources 
Xing Chen 1,2 Ying Zhang 3,4 Xiaodong Zhang 3,4 Xianghan Zheng 1,2 Wenzhong Guo 1,2 Guolong Chen 1,2 1 College of Mathematics and Computer Science Fuzhou University Fuzhou 350108, China 2 Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Networking Computing and Intelligent Information Processing 3 Key Laboratory of High Confidence Softwa re Technologies \(Ministry of Education 4 School of Electronics Engineering and Computer Science, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China chenxing08 zhangying06, zhangxd10 sei.pku.edu.cn xianghan.zheng, guowenzhong, cgl}@fzu.edu.cn 
Abstract 
 
Cloud management faces with great challenges, due to the diversity of Cloud resources and ever-changing management requirements. For constructing a management system to satisfy a specific management requirement, a redevelopment solution based on existing management system is usually more practicable than developing the system from scratch. However, the difficulty and workload of redevelopment are also very high. As the architecture-based runtime model is causally connected with the corresponding running system automatically, constructing an integrated Cloud management system based on the architecture-based runtime models of Cloud resources can benefit from the 
model-specific natures, and thus reduce the development workload. Therefore, in this pap er, we present an architecturebased approach to managing diverse Cloud resources. First of all, the manageability \(such as APIs, configuration files and scripts\of Cloud resources are abstracted as runtime models which can automatically and immediately propagate any observable runtime changes of the target resources to the corresponding architecture models, and vice versa. Then a customized model is constructed according to the specific Cloud management requirement Finally the operations on the customized model are mapped to the ones on Cloud resource runtime models through model transformation. Thus, all the 
management tasks can be carried out through executing operations on the customized model. The experiment on a realworld cloud demonstrates the feasibility, effectiveness and benefits of the new approach to integrated management of Cloud resources 
Keywords - Cloud Management Software Architecture Models at Runtime 
I I NTRODUCTION Cloud computing is a model for enabling ubiquitous convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interactio A n d t h e y al w a y s a llocate virtual machine \(VM\-based computing resources on demand through the virtualization technology, and deploy 
different kinds of fundamental software onto virtual machines, which are finally provided in a service-oriented style. Nowadays, more and more software applications are built or migrated to run in a cloud, with the goal of reducing IT costs and complexities. This trend brings unprecedented challenges to system management of Cloud, which mainly comes from the following two aspects On one hand, the virtualization not only makes the physical resources easier to share and control but also increases the complexity of management. For instance there are different kinds of Cloud re sources, which include CPU memory, storage, network, virtual machines and different types of software, such as web servers and application 
servers On the other hand, there are various management requirements which require using different Cloud resources with different management styles. For instance, a 3-tier JEE Java Enterprise Edition\ applicatio n typically has to use the web server, EJB server and DB server. These servers have different management mechanisms. An EJB server should comply with JMX management specification and rely on the JMX API, while a DB server is usually managed through the SQL-like scripts. In addition, the EJB server can usually sustain the running of severa l applications simultaneously What 
s more, all of the platforms are in a resource sharing and competing environment. Administrators have to 
 
carefully coordinate each part to make the whole system work correctly and effectively Actually, Cloud management is the execution of a group of management tasks, from the view of system implementation. A management task is a group of management operations on one or more kinds of Cloud resources. A management operation is an invocation of a management interface provided by Cloud resources themselves or a third-party management service. Due to the specificity and large scale of Cloud, the management tasks of different Clouds are not the same. For instance, Amazon EC2 mainly manages infrastructure level Cloud resources such as virtual machines, while Google App Engine manages platform level Cloud resources such as operating 
systems execution environment. There are many Cloud management systems, which implement a group of management tasks for a given set of Cloud resources based on their management interfaces. Then Cloud administrators can conduct redevelopment based on existing management systems to satisfy specific requirements. However, the redevelopment is usually impl emented in general purpose programming languages like Java and C/C++, which can bring enough power and flexibility but also cause high programming effort and cost. For instance, the existing VM and middleware platforms have already provided adequate proprietary APIs \(e.g., JMX\sed by monitoring and 
2013 International Conference on Cloud Computing and Big Data 978-1-4799-2829-3/13 $26.00 © 2013 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CLOUDCOM-ASIA.2013.45 474 
2013 International Conference on Cloud Computing and Big Data 978-1-4799-2830-9/14 $31.00 © 2014 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CLOUDCOM-ASIA.2013.45 474 


  
executing related codes. Administrators first have to be familiar with these APIs and th en build programs upon them Such a work is not easy due to the heterogeneity of platforms and the huge numbers of APIs provided. In a management program, proper APIs have to be chosen for use and different types of APIs e.g., JMX and scripts\ have to be made interoperable with each other. Such boring work is not the core of the management logics comprised with the analyzing and planning related codes, but it has to be done to make the whole program run effectively. During this procedure, the irrelevant APIs as well as the collected low-level data can sometimes make administrators exhausted and frustrated. Furthermore, as the programs are built on the codes that directly connect with the runtime systems, they are not easy for reuse. Administrators have to write many different programs to manage different cloud applications and their platforms even the management mechanisms are the same The fundamental challenge faced by the development of management tasks is the conceptual gap between the problem and the implementation domains. To bridge the gap using approaches that require extensive handcraft implementations such as hard-coding in general purpose programming languages like Java will give rise to the programming complexity. Software architecture acts as a bridge between requirements and implementations [2 It  describes the gross structure of a software system with a collection of managed elements and it has been used to reduce the complexity and cost mainly resulted from the difficulties faced by unde rstanding the large-scale and complex software system [3 a t u ral idea to understand management ta sks through modeling the architecture of the system. And current research in the area of model driven engineering \(MDE\also supports systematic transformation of problem-level abstractions to software implementations [4 T h e co m p le x i t y of bridg i ng the gap could be tackled through developing control systems based on the models that describe the architecture of the cloud and through the automated support for transforming the changes on the architectural models to the ones on the running systems and vice versa This paper presents an arch itecture-based approach for integrated management of diverse Cloud resources. We construct the runtime model of each kind of Cloud resource Cloud resource runtime mod el\matically based on its architecture meta-model and management interfaces, and define the customized model which satisfies the specific Cloud management requirement. Then we map operations on the customized model to ones on Cloud resource runtime models through a rule-based resolution engine Finally, all the management tasks can be carried out through executing operations on the customized model. The whole approach only needs to define a group of meta-models and mapping rules, thus greatly reduces the workload of hand coding. As an additional contribution, we develop an architecture-based tool for the unified management of the hardware and software resources of virtual machines in our approach based on OpenStack and Hyperic The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section II gives an overview of the architecture-based approach to managing diverse Cloud resour ces. Section III presents the construction of Cloud resource runtime models and the customized model. Section IV describes Model Operation Transformation from the customized model to Cloud resource runtime models Sectio n V illustrates a real case study and reports the evaluation. Section VI discusses the related works. Section VII concludes this paper and indicates our future work II A B RIEF O VERVIEW OF THE A PPROACH Fig. 1 is an overview of the architecture-based approach to managing diverse Cloud resources. The approach introduces the runtime model that describes the architecture of the cloud, for the management of Cloud resources, and mainly includes two parts: 1\construction of Cloud resource runtime models and the customized model; 2\ Model Operation Transformation from the customized model to Cloud resource runtime models First, we present an approach to constructing the runtime model of Cloud resources and the customized model. There are many different kinds of resources in Cloud. For example there are virtual machine platforms such as Xen, VMware and KVM, operating systems such as Windows and Linux application servers such as JOnAS, JBoss and WebLogic web servers such as Apache, IIS and Nginx, database servers such as MySQL, SQL server and Oracle. The Cloud resource runtime model in our approach is abstracted from the organization architecture of this kind of resources. Thus we can manage the resources through operations on the runtime models, and these operations will finally propagate to the underlying cloud resources. Based on the underlying Cloud resources, there may be various management requirements which consist of specific Cloud resources and management styles. We also construct the customized model according to the specific management requirement The customized model is not directly connected with the corresponding Fig. 1  Overview of the architecture-based approach to managing diverse Cloud resources 
475 
475 


A Basic Mapping Rules between Model Elements Flavor MachineType id name ram disk vcpus Flavor id name memoryMb imageSpaceGb guestCpus 
          
One-to-one mapping rule 
Cloud resources, but it is causally connected with Cloud resource runtime models th rough model transformation Second, the customized model and Cloud resource runtime models are used to manage the same underlying resources. But they are different in organization architectures and management styles. Thus, when we manage the resources through operations on the customized model, they need to be mapped to ones on Cloud resources runtime models. We present a model transformation mechanism which transforms the customized model to Cloud resource runtime models Administrators just need to write some mapping rules according to the specific management requirements the model transformation is automatically completed and the operations on Cloud resource runtime models are automatically generated. Then the operations will be transferred to Cloud resource runtime models and be executed After the two steps above, Cloud management tasks can be carried out through executing different kinds of model operating programs, while without considering the management interfaces of underlying Cloud resources III C ONSTRUCTION OF A RCHITECTURE BASED M ODELS As we introduced in section 2, the Cloud resource runtime model in our approach is abstracted from the software architecture of the running system The input of the runtime model construction includes a meta-model for resource management specifying what kinds of elements can be managed and an access model of the configurations specifying how to use the management APIs to monitor and modify those manageable elements, i.e. the underlying cloud resources. Then the runtime model is automatically constructed by the code generation tool named SM@RT which is proposed in [5  an d th e  cor r ec t sy n chron iz ati on  between the runtime model and the running system is also ensured by SM@RT. \(The source code of SM@RT can be downloaded from  T hus w e c a n m a na ge t h e re s o ur ces through operations on the runtime model, and these operations will finally propagate to the underlying cloud resources. For instance, in Fig. 2, the synchronization engine builds a model element in the runtime model for the running JOnAS platform. When the model element of JOnAS is deleted, the synchronization engine is able to detect this change, identify which platfor m this removed element stands for and finally invoke the script to shut down the JOnAS platform. Due to page limitation, the details of the runtime model construction with SM@RT can be found in In Cloud environment, there are different management requirements which consist of objective managed resources and appropriate management styles In Fig. 1, the customized model reflects the objective managed resources and the appropriate management style. The input of the customized model is a meta-model for resource management specifying what kinds of elements need to be managed. The basic types of model operations include Get  Set  List  Add and Remove Then the customized model is restricted by the meta-model and any operation is aimed to monitor some parameter of the underlying systems or execute some management operation IV M ODEL O PERATION T RANSFORMATION In our approach, we ensure the synchronization between the customized model and Cloud resource runtime models through model operation transformation which is based on a set of mapping rules between the two models. The mapping rules describe the mapping relationship between the elements of two models. Each attribute of the element in the customized model is related with one of the element in the composite model. Then all changes on the customized model will be transformed to operations on the composite mode We have proposed an approach to model transformation which can generate transformation codes automatically based on the customized model, Cloud resource runtime models and the mapping rules There are three types of basic mapping rules between model elements, as shown in Fig. 3 One element in the objective model is related to a certain element in the source model Particularly, the attributes of the elements in the objective model are also corresponding to the ones of related elements in the source model. For instance, the elements in the objective model and the elements in the source model both reflect the configurations of virtual machines And the    and attributes of the elements in the objective model are corresponding to the    and 
Fig. 2. Synchronization between the runtime model and the running system 
476 
476 


Many-to-one mapping rule One-to-many mapping rule 
MachineType Image Image Image kernelDescription Image Kernel id preferredKernel Image Server Apache JOnAS MySQL Apache JOnAS MySQL imageId key value type value key type key value value key 
                                
attributes of the elements in the source model One type of element in the objective model is related to two or more types of elements in the source model. Particularly, the attributes of a certain type of the element in the objective model are corresponding to the attributes of two or more types of elements in the source model. For instance, the element in the source model and the element in the objective model both reflect the types of virtual machines. But there is no attribute of the element in the source model which is corresponding to the attribute of the element in the objective model. And the related one is in the element in the source model, whose attribute equals to the attribute of the element in the objective model One type of elements in the source model is related to two or more types of elements in the objective model. For instance, the elements in the source model represent virtual machines, and the  and elements represent virtual machines with software deployed. During model transformation, any Server element is mapped to one of the  and elements, according to its attribute Any mapping rule can be demonstrated as the combination of the three basic types of mapping rules. We have presented the method to describe the mapping rules The mapping rules are described in XML files and the keywords are defined as follows 1 Helper: It is used to d escribe the mapping relationship between elements. There are usually three attributes in the helper tag, the attribute, the attribute and the attribute. The attribute describes the element in the source model and the attribute describes the element in the objective model. The attribute describes the type of the mapping rule. When its value is basic it is the one-to-one mapping rule or the many-to-one mapping rule. When its value is multi it is the one-to-many mapping rule. The helper tag is used to describe the mapping relationship between elements and elements often have attributes or other elements. So the helper tag usually nests helper tags ma  pper tags and query tags Additionally, the mapper and query tags are used to describe the mapping relatio nship between attributes 2 Mapper: It is used to describe the mapping relationship between attributes. There are usually two attributes in the mapper tag, the attribute and the attribute. The attribute describes the attribute in the source model and the attribute describes the attribute in the objective model. Specially, the elements which the attributes belong to, are defined in the helper tag by which the mapper tag is nested 3 Query: It is used to describe the mapping relationship between attributes. There are usually four attributes in the query tag. The definitions of the key and value attributes in the query tag are similar with the ones in mapper tag. However, the element in the source model, which the attribute b elongs to, are defined by the node and condition attr ibutes, which describe the type of the element and the constraints which the element should follow. Particularly, it is usually used to describe the many-to-one mapping rule between model elements Based on the key words above, we can define the mapping rules between elements, according to their mapping relationships Fig.3 Three types of basic mapping relationships between model elements 
477 
477 


           
When we manage the resources through operations on the customized model, they need to be transformed to ones on Cloud resources runtime models. The basic types of Operations include Get  Set  List  Add and Remove Fig. 4 shows different types of model operations and their execution effects on the models As shown in Fig. 3, there are three types of basic mapping rules between model elements. According to the mapping rules the operations on the element in the source model can be mapped to the operations on the related element in the objective model. We have defined the mapping rules of operation transformation, as shown in Fig 5 The element in the source model is mapped to the element in the objective model and it is a one-to-one mapping rule. Thus, the operation to add, remove or list the elements is mapped to the same operation on the related element. And the operation to get or set the value of s attribute is mapped to the same operation on the related attribute The element in the source model is mapped to the element in the objective model, and the attribute of the element is also corresponding to the attribute of the element. It is a manyto-one mapping rule. Thus, the operation to get or set the value of the attribute of the or element is mapped to the same operation on the related attribute of the element. And the operation to add, remove or list the elements is mapped to the same operation on the related element. In addition when the element is created, the initial values of properties come from both of the and elements The element in the source model is mapped to one of the and elements in the objective model, according to some attribute of the element. It is a one-to-many mapping rule. The operations are mapped to the same ones on the related elements or attributes. Particularly, the operation to list the elements is mapped to the operation to list all of the related elements including the and elements V C ASE S TUDY In a Cloud environment, the hardware and software resources of virtual machines need to be managed together in order to optimize the allocation of resources. However, to the best of our knowledge, there is currently no open source product to satisfy the management requirement above. There are many Cloud management systems provide solutions to managing specific kinds of Cloud resources. For instance OpenStack [8 an o p en s o u r ce product which is aimed to manage Cloud infrastructure. Hyperic [9 is an oth e r  pr o d u c t  which manages different kinds of software including web servers, application servers, database servers, and so on In order to validate the feasibility and efficiency of our approach, we implement a prototype for the unified management of the hardware and software resources of virtual machines based on OpenStack and Hyperic. Then we Figure 5 Mapping Rules of Model Operation Transformation Fig. 4. All Kinds of Operations 
One-to-one mapping rule Many-to-one mapping rule One-to-many mapping rule 
B Model Operation Transformation A B A B A A B C A A C B A B B A C A B C A A B C 
478 
478 


A Construction of the Models Project Server Flavor Image Server Images Image Flavors Flavor Agent Apache JOnAS MySQL Project Appliances Appliances Apache JOnAS MySQL Apache ApacheSwConfig HwConfig B Model Operation Transformation Apache JOnAS MySQL Server Agent OpenStack Hyperic Apache Apache Server id applicanceId Apache imageId Server name ip flavor HwConfig flavorId Server status 
conduct some experiments on the prototype to make an evaluation OpenStack is aimed to manage the entire life cycle of virtual machines. The management elements in OpenStack include    and so on, as shown in Fig. 6 The virtual machine \(the element is the basic unit of resource allocation, each of which is included in a project. The resources of the infrastructure are divided into several projects. The configuration of the virtual machine contains the image, which describes the file system of the virtual machine, and the flavor, which describes the hardware resource of the virtual machine. The element contains a list of images which can be used in the project. The element is regarded as one type of image For instance, web server imag e and DB server image\The element contains a list of flavors which can be used in the project. The element describes one type of hardware resource configuration \(such as tiny-flavor: CPU 1G 002 Memory 512M; large-flavor: CPU 4G, memory 8G Hyperic provide management interfaces of middleware software products, which is based on the agents \(the element\deployed on each managed node. Due to the large number of management interfaces, the model of Hyperic in this case just contains the main management interfaces of Apache, JOnAS and MySQL, as shown in Fig. 9. The attributes of the  and elements reflect the metrics and configurations of the running systems The correct synchronization between the runtime models and the management systems are guaranteed by the SM@RT tool. Thus, administrators can manage the hardware and software resource at an architecture level separately In the management requirement above, the virtual machine and the software deployed can be regarded as an appliance [10  w h ich is th e b asic m a naged u n i t  S e ve ra l appliances compose a project that provides the infrastructure and software resources to a distributed application system According to this management style, we construct the customized model. Fig. 6 show s the main elements in the customized model. The element contains an element, which is regarded as a list of appliances The element contains a list of elements, a list of elements and a list of elements, which are all regarded as appliances. The elements of each appliance contain configurations of the hardware and software resources. For instance, the element contains an element and an element. So management tasks can be described by sequences of operations on the customized model The customized model reflects the specific management style and the composite model stands for the specific managed resources. In order to ensure the correct synchronization between the two models, we define the mapping rules between their elements. The key challenge is to describe the mapping from the  and elements in the customized model to the and elements in runtime models of and  We take the element for an example, as shown in Fig 7 1 The element is mapped to the element in the OpenStack model and the mapping condition is if th eir attributes has the same value It is a one-to-one mapping rule. The attribute of the element describes the type of image, which is mapped to the attribute of the element, as the same as the and attributes. The attribute of the element describes the type of flavor which is mapped to the attribute of the element, as the same as the attribute Fig 6 The Architecture-based Models of OpenStack up-left\, Hyperic \(upright\ and the Objective Management System Fig.7 Snippets of Mapping Rules 
479 
479 


  
Apache Agent ip ApacheSwConfig Apache Apache Server Servers tenant_id Server C Evaluation Appliance 
2 The element is mapped to the element in the Hyperic model and the mapping condition is if their attributes has the same value It is a one-to-one mapping rule. The attributes of the element describe the config urations of the software resource, which are mapped to the attributes of the element in the Hyperic model According to the mapping rules, the operations on the element in the customized model can be mapped to the operations on the related element in the runtime models Then the operation will be transferred and executed on the runtime models. Fig. 8 shows an example of this progress The operation to create an element is mapped to the one to create a element in the OpenStack runtime model. The file transferred to the runtime model describes the action in detail 1 Query: Find the element whose attribute has the value of f9764071  2 Add: Create a element 3 Set: Do configuring for the server according to the action description When the operation is executed, the changes on the runtime model are reacting on the running system at the same time In the approach above, we have developed an architecture-based tool for the unified management of the hardware and software resources of virtual machines, as shown in Fig. 9. Every element stands for a virtual machine with software deployed and these elements compose the runtime model of the running system Administrators can manage the resources at an architecture level and the operations are transformed to the invocations of management interfaces of underlying Cloud resources Particularly, we just reuse and reorganize the management interfaces provided by OpenStack and Hyperic, instead of modifying the two management systems We manage a Cloud infrastructure, which consists of 15 physical servers and supports about 100 appliances, through our runtime model based tool. To evaluate its performance we develop Java and QVT [11  pr og r am s to ex ecu te  tw o  groups of management tasks, respectively based on the management interfaces or the runtime model The first group of management tasks is to query properties of the appliances and the second group of management tasks is to create a set of appliances, as shown in Fig 10 The execution time of Java programs is less than the QVT ones. The main reason is that the two sets of programs are based on the same management APIs and there are some extra operations in runtime model based approach, which are aimed to ensure the synchronization between the architecture-based models and the underlying systems. Howe ver, the difference is small and completely acceptable for Cloud management Fig.8 The action to create a virtual machine executed on the runtime model of OpenStack Fig. 9 The architecture-based tool for the unified management of the hardware and software resources of virtual machines Fig. 10 The performance test result of the unified management tool 
480 
480 


Progress of research on software architecture Journal of Software, 2006, 17\(6\: 1257-1275 \(in Chinese with English abstract\ http://www.jos.org.cn/1000-9825/17/1257.htm 4 R o b e r t F r ance Be r n har d R u m p e   Mo de l dr iv e n D e v e l o pm e n t o f  Complex Software: A Research Roadmap. In: Proc. of the 29th International Conference on Software Engineering, Future of Software Engineering Track. Washington: IEEE Computer Society Press, 2007. 37-54 5 G ang H uang  H u i S o ng  H o ng Me i  S M R T  A pply i ng A r chite ct ur e based Runtime Management of Internetware Systems. International Journal of Software and Informatics, 2009, 3\(4\: 439-464 6 S M RT  S u p p o r ti ng  M o de l s at R u n T im e  http://code.google.com/p/smatrt 7 H ui S o ng G a ng H ua ng  F r anc k C ha uv e l  Y i ng f e i X i o ng  Z he njia ng  Hu, Yanchun Sun, Hong Mei. Supporting Runtime Software Architecture: A Bidirectional-Transformation-Based Approach Journal of Systems and Software, 2011, 84\(5\-723 8 O pe nS ta ck ht tp  w w w  o p e n s t ac k.o r g   9 H y p er ic. ht tp   w w w hy p e r ic.co m  Vi rt ua l ap p l ia nc e ht tp   e n  w i k i p e di a  org w i k i  V i r tu a l _a pp li anc e 11 Q V T htt p  e n  w iki pe di a.o r g w iki Q V T  12 H e iko  L udw ig Jim L ar e do  K amal Bh at tac h ar y a. Re st b ase d  management of loosely coupled services. In: Proc. of the 18th International Conference on World Wide Web. New York: ACM Press. 2009. 931-940 13 F  l i x Cuadr a do J u a n C  D u e  as Ro dr ig o G a r c a Car mo na. A n  Autonomous Engine for Services Configuration and Deployment IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, 2012, 38\(3\ 520-536 14 G a ng H u ang  X i ng C h e n Y ing Z h a n g  X iao do ng Z h a n g  T o w a r d s  architecture-based management of platforms in the cloud. Frontiers of Computer Science 6\(4\: 388-397 \(2012 15 X i ao do ng Z h a n g  X i ng C h e n Y i ng Z h a n g e tc R u n time Mo de l Base d  Management of Diverse Cloud Resources In: Proc. of the 16th International Conference on Model Driven Engineering Languages and Systems. 2013. Accepted 
VI R ELATED W ORK There are many management systems which are aimed to manage different types of resources and provide different kinds of services. For instance, Eucalyptus, OpenStack Tivoli and Hyperic separately help administrators manage certain types of Cloud resources. However, none of them can adjust and extend its management interfaces efficiently and flexibly to satisfy differen t management requirements There are some research works which try to integrate management systems based on service-oriented architecture For instance, Heiko Ludwig et al. [12 p r op os e a s o lu t i on t o  the system management in a distributed environment, which encapsulates management functions into RESTful services and makes them subscribed by administrators. In general, it is feasible to integrate management function based on service-oriented architecture. However, management services are not as good as system parameters for reflecting the states of running systems, and service subscription and composition are also more complicated, which may lead to extra difficulties in system management Architecture-based approach is usually used in system management. For instance, the work [13 is p r op os ed t o  support the configuration and deployment of services with an automated closed control loop. The automation is enabled by the definition of a generic information model, which captures all the information relevant to the management of the services, describing the runtime elements, service dependencies and business objectives. In those works, the architecture-based models are used to analyze management problems, but they cannot be used to monitor the systems or to execute some management operations, because the correct synchronization between the architecture-based models and the running systems cannot be guaranteed We have made some researches in the area of model driven engineering. For a given meta-model and a given set of management interfaces, SM@RT [5  6   7  c a n  automatically generate the code for mapping models to interfaces with good enough runtime performance. In the work [14 w e h a ve t r ie d to c o n s tru c t th e ru n tim e m odel of a  real-world Cloud and develop management programs in a modeling language. But it is difficult to construct the runtime model to satisfy every management requirement from scratch In the work [15  b ase d on r u n tim e m odels, s p ec if ic Cl ou d  management requirements can be satisfied with executing a set of model operating programs through model construction merge and transformation. However, the composite model causes the data delay of management programs, which increases linearly with the scale of the underlying systems VII C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE W ORK Due to the diversity of Cloud resources and specific management requirements, Clo ud management is faced with huge challenges. To satisfy a new specific management requirement, the most common way is conducting redevelopment based on existing management systems However, the difficulty and workload of redevelopment are very high. To avoid the difficulty and heavy workload of redevelopment, this paper prop osed an architecture-based approach to integrated manageme nt of Cloud resources.  We construct runtime models of Cloud resources and the customized model to satisfy the specific management requirement.  The operations on the customized model are mapped to the ones on Cloud resource runtime models through model transformation. Thus, all the management tasks can be carried out through executing operations on the customized model For the future work, we plan to add some more advanced management functions with the help of model analysis and reasoning techniques to ease the tasks of Cloud management A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was supported by the Technology Innovation Platform Project of Fujian Province under Grant No 2009J1007 and the Research Progr am of Fuzhou University under Grant No. 022543 R EFERENCES 1 P Me l l and T  G r ance NI ST de f init i o n o f cl o ud co m p u ti n g  N a t io n a l  Institute of Standards and Technology. October 7, 2009 2 G a r la n  D Soft w a re A r c h i t ect u r e: A  R o a d m a p I n Proc  of t h e 22nd International Conference on Software Engineering, Future of Software Engineering Track. New York: ACM Press, 2000. 91-101 3 M ei H S h en J R  
481 
481 


VII F UTURE WORK Our future work is to efìciently implement more complex local search algorithms such as 2.5-opt 3-opt and LinKernighan However these require much more effort in order to be parallelized Also simple ideas such as neighborhood pruning can be applied at the cost of the quality of the solution A CKNOWLEDGMENT This work was supported by Core Research of Evolutional Science and Technology CREST project of Japan Science and Technology Agency JST and Grant-in-Aid for Scientiìc Research of MEXT Japan R EFERENCES  Apple gate D.L Bixby  R.E Chv atal V  Cook W J The Traveling Salesman Problem A Computational Study Princeton University Press Princeton 2007  La wler  E.L Lenstra J.K Rinnoo y Kan A.H.G Shmo ys D.B The Traveling Salesman Problem A Guided Tour of Combinatorial Optimization Wiley Chichester 1985  Johnson D and McGeoch L The T ra v eling Salesman Problem A Case Study in Local Optimization Local Search in Combinatorial Optimization by E Aarts and J Lenstra Eds pp 215-310 London John Wiley and Sons 1997  Gare y  M.R and Johnson D.S Computers and Intractability A Guide to the Theory of NP-Completeness San Francisco W.H Freeman 1979  Croes G A.;A Method for Solving T ra v eling-Salesman Problems Operations Research November/December 1958  M A OêNeil D T amir  and M Burtscher  A P arallel GPU Version of the Traveling Salesman Problem 2011 International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Processing Techniques and Applications pp 348-353 July 2011  Dorigo M and Gambardella L.M Ant Colon y System A Cooperative Learning Approach to the Traveling Salesman Problem IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation Vol 1 No 1 pp 53-66 April 1997  Fujimoto N and Tsutsui S A Highly-P arallel TSP Solv er for a GPU Computing Platform Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol 6046 pp 264-271 2011  Reinelt G TSPLIB A T ra v eling Salesman Problem Library  ORSA Journal on Computing Vol 3 No 4 pp 376-384 Fall 1991  Re go C and Glo v er  F  Local Search and Metaheuristics The Traveling Salesman Problem and its Variations by G Gutin and A.P Punnen Eds pp 309-368 Dordrecht Kluwer Academic Publishers 2002  Lourenco H R Martin O C Stutzle T  Iterated Local Search International series in operations research and management science 2003  Karp R Reducibility among combinatorial problems In Complexity of Computer Computations Plenum Press pp 85103 New York 1972  Tsai H Y ang J Kao C Solving tra v eling salesman problems by combining global and local search mechanisms Proceedings of the 2002 Congress on Evolutionary Computation CECê02 2002  Pepper J Golden B W asil E Solving the tra v elling salesman problem with annealing-based heuristics a computational study IEEE Transactions on Man and Cybernetics Systems Part A Vol 32 No.1 pp 72-77 2002  NVIDIA CUD A Programming Guide http://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/index.html  Helsgaun K An Ef fecti v e Implementation of the LinKernighan Traveling Salesman Heuristic European Journal of Operational Research 2000  Nilsson Ch Heuristics for the T ra v eling Salesman Problem Linkoping University  Bentle y  J Experiments on tra v eling salesman heuristics Proceedings of the rst annual ACM-SIAM symposium on Discrete algorithms SODA 1990  http://www tsp.gatech.edu/concorde.html  Luong T V  Melab N T albi E.-G GPU Computing for P ar allel Local Search Metaheuristic Algorithms IEEE Transactions on Computers Vol 62 No 1 Jan 2013 
1796 


  D Sigel and D Wettergreen 223Star tracker celestial localization system for a lunar rover,\224 in Proc of the IEEE/RSJ Int Conf on Intelligent Robots and Systems 050IROS\051  29 Oct 2 Nov 2007 pp 2851\2262856   N Xiaolin and F Jiancheng 223A new autonomous celestial navigation method for the lunar rover,\224 Robotics and Autonomous Systems  vol 57 no 1 pp 48 226 54 2009   J Enright T Barfoot and M Soto 223Star tracking for planetary rovers,\224 in Proc of the IEEE Aerospace Conf  Mar 2012 pp 1\22613   M Cummins and P Newman 223FAB-MAP Probabilistic localization and mapping in the space of appearance,\224 The Int Journal of Robotics Research  vol 27 no 6 pp 647\226665 2008   M Shuster and S Oh 223Three-axis attitude determination from vector observations,\224 Journal of Guidance and Control  vol 4 no 1 pp 70\22677 1981   M Kaess H Johannsson R Roberts V Ila J J Leonard and F Dellaert 223iSAM2 Incremental smoothing and mapping using the bayes tree,\224 The Int Journal of Robotics Research 050IJRR\051  vol 31 no 2 pp 216\226 235 2012   C Tong and T D Barfoot 223Gaussian Process GaussNewton for 3D laser-based visual odometry,\224 in Proc of the IEEE Conf on Robotics and Automation 050ICRA\051 to appear  Karlsruhe Germany 6\22610 May 2013 B IOGRAPHY  Jonathan D Gammell is a Ph.D student at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 and a member of the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 He holds a B.A.Sc degree 0502006\051 from the University of Waterloo 050UW\051 in Mechanical Engineering 050Physics Option With Distinction Dean's Honours List\051 and a M.A.Sc 0502010\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Aerospace Science and Engineering in the Space Robotics Group His current research focus is developing planning techniques for rovers in unstructured terrain in order to minimize their 002nal positional uncertainty Chi Hay Tong is a Ph.D candidate at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 and a member of the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 He holds a B.A.Sc degree 0502008\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Engineering Science 050Computer Option\051 and his recent research focus is on laser-based mapping and navigation Peter Berczi is a M.A.Sc student at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 with the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 He has a B.A.Sc 050Honours 2012\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Engineering Science 050Aerospace Option\051 His research is focused on developing a terrain assessment framework for mobile robots particularly for robots operating on the Moon or Mars Sean Anderson received a B.A.Sc degree in Mechatronics Engineering 050With Distinction Dean's Honours List\051 from the University of Waterloo 050UW\051 in 2011 Currently he is a Ph.D student in the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 at the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 His main research interest is in improving Simultaneous Localization and Mapping 050SLAM\051 algorithms for mobile robots in threedimensional unstructured terrain Timothy D Barfoot holds a B.A.Sc 050Honours 1997\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 in Engineering Science 050Aerospace Option\051 and a Ph.D 0502002\051 from the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies 050UTIAS\051 in Aerospace Engineering He is currently an Associate Professor at UTIAS where he leads the Autonomous Space Robotics Lab 050ASRL\051 Before joining UTIAS he worked at MDA Space Missions in the Controls  Analysis Group on applications of mobile robotics to space exploration and underground mining Dr Barfoot is a Canada Research Chair 050Tier II\051 in Autonomous Space Robotics a Professional Engineer of Ontario and an IEEE Member John Enright holds a B.A.Sc 0501997\051 from the University of Toronto 050UofT\051 050Engineering Science Aerospace\051 and a M.S 0501999\051 and a Ph.D 0502002\051 from Massachusetts Institute of Technology 050MIT\051 in Aerospace Systems He is currently an Associate Professor in Aerospace Engineering at Ryerson University in Toronto Having joined the faculty at Ryerson University in 2003 he is now the Principal Investigator of the Space Avionics and Instrumentation Laboratory 050SAIL\051 While at MIT 0501999-2003\051 he led the software development for the SPHERES 003ight project and the GFLOPS real-time spacecraft simulation testbed His research interests include spacecraft avionics and sensor processing systems engineering and 003ight software Dr Enright is a member of the AIAA CASI and the IEEE 10 


Table 9  CMG Ops Mode Uplink Command  Description Bits Hex Chars Value Description  Operating mode ID 8 2 01 Detumble Mode  01  Beacon interval 8 2 XX 05000 to FF\051 00 corresponds to 30 s XX corresponds to increments of 10 s The frequency can be varied from 10 s to 2550 s 05042 mins\051  Battery voltage 8 2 XX 05000 to FF\051 Signed two's complement integer 0 corresponds to 7.0v each increment is 0.01 V  Uplink time 48 12 XXX year X month XX hour XX day XX minute XX second  Orbital position 192 48 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX orbital position in 0.5 meter resolution ranging from 0 to 8388.608 km XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  Orbital velocity 192 48 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX orbital velocity in 0.25 meter/s resolution ranging from 0 to 16.384 km/s XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  QUEST weights 8 2 XX 0500 to 15\051 0500 to 1\051 each increment represents 0.05  Maneuver type 4 1 X 0500 or 1\051 0  R2 1  sun pointing  Maneuver time 48 12 XXX year X month XX hour XX day XX minute XX second  Total 516 129  discussed in this paper is capable of distributed operation and is intelligently designed to perform mission operations through duty cycling of the two processing units The on orbit average power is utilized effectively to produce net positive power store it on board the Li-Po batteries and discharge them by executing high power primary mission objectives Each computing unit is designed with its own storage device to store mission speci\002c data which is downlinked during an overhead pass of the CubeSat The CDH 003ight software is designed in the form of operating modes which are capable of being commanded from ground multiple times The CubeSat is capable of teleoperation autonomous and semiautonomous operation Every operating mode is designed with a downlink telemetry budget which is designed to capture data for validating primary and secondary objectives The 003ight software and thus the CubeSat is designed for on orbit tuning through an uplink command speci\002c for each operating mode The ADS mode and CMG Ops mode are implemented as distributed operations which get initiated by the 003ight computer through ground control and are executed on the auxiliary processor Effectively the distributed computing architecture and its operational design enable a CubeSat to demonstrate precision 3-axes attitude control and showcase the potential of such a computing platform for enabling similar complex capabilities A PPENDIX For completeness and facilitation of design of tasks encountered in the various operating modes the design of the following functions is presented in the form of 003owcharts 1  Deploy antenna 050Fig 9\051 2  Safe-hold mode functions 050Fig 10\051 3  Detumble mode functions 050Fig 11\051 4  Comms mode functions 050Fig 12\051 Figure 9  Deploy Antenna 11 


Figure 10  Safe-hold Functions Figure 11  Safe-hold Functions 12 


Figure 12  Safe-hold Functions R EFERENCES   H Heidt J Puig-Suari A Moore S Nakasuka and R Twiggs 223Cubesat A new generation of picosatellite for education and industry low-cost space experimentation,\224 in Proceedings of the Utah State University Small Satellite Conference Logan UT  Citeseer 2001 pp 1\2262   J Schaffner and J Puig-Suari 223The Electronic System Design Analysis Integration and Construction of the Cal Poly State University CP1 CubeSat,\224 in 16th AIAA/USU on Small Satellites Conference Logan UT  Citeseer 2002 pp 1\2262   R Munkata 223Cubesat design speci\002cation rev 12,\224 August 2009   G Minelli A Ricco D Squires C Beasley and J Hines 223O/oreos A multi-payload technology demonstration,\224 in Proceedings of the 24th Annual AIAA/USU Conference on Small Satellites Logan UT  2010   C Kitts J Hines E Agasid A Ricco B Yost K Ronzano and J Puig-Suar 223The GeneSat-1 Microsatellite Mission A Challenge in Small Satellite Design,\224 in Proc 20th Annual AIAA/USU Conf on Small Satellites Logan UT  2006   D Schor J Scowcroft C Nichols and W Kinsner 223A command and data handling unit for pico-satellite missions,\224 in Electrical and Computer Engineering 2009 CCECE'09 Canadian Conference on  IEEE 2009 pp 874\226879   M Swartwout C Kitts R Twiggs B Smith T Kenny R Lu K Statten\002eld R Batra and F Pranajaya 223Flight results for the sapphire satellite a low-cost university-class mission.\224   C McBryde and E Lightsey 223A star tracker design for cubesats,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2012 IEEE  IEEE 2012 pp 1\22614   W Kinsner D Schor R Fazel-Darbandi B Cade K Anderson C Friesen D Kotelko and P Ferguson 223The t-sat1 nanosatellite team of teams,\224 in Cognitive Informatics  Cognitive Computing 050ICCI CC\051 2012 IEEE 11th International Conference on  IEEE 2012 pp 380\226390   M Swartwout and S Jayaram 223The argus mission Detecting thruster plumes for space situational awareness,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2011 IEEE  IEEE 2011 pp 1\22610   M Swartwout C Kitts P Stang and E Lightsey 223A standardized distributed computing architecture Results from three universities,\224 in Proceedings of the 19th Annual AIAA/USU Conference on Small Satellites  2005   I Garcia 223Texas instruments application report tms320c6711d c6712d c6713b power consumption summary,\224 http://focus.ti.com/lit/an/spra889a/spra889a.pdf 2005   223MSP430 16-bit Ultra-Low Power Micorcontroller,\224 www.ti.com/msp430   223C6000 High Performance DSP,\224 http://focus.ti.com/paramsearch/docs 13 


parametricsearch.tsp?family dspsectionId=2tabId=57familyId=132   S Asundi 223Cubesat system design based on methodologies adopted for developing wireless robotic platform,\224 Ph.D dissertation University of Florida 2011   S Asundi and N Fitz-Coy 223Cubesat mission design based on a systems engineering approach,\224 in IEEE Aerospace Conference  IEEE 2013   W Lan 223Poly Picosatellite Orbital Deployer Mk III ICD,\224 http://cubesat.calpoly.edu/images LaunchProviders/mk  iii  icd5.pdf 2007   R Nugent R Munakata A Chin R Coelho and J Puig-Suari 223The cubesat The picosatellite standard for research and education,\224 Aerospace Engineering  vol 805 pp 756\2265087 2008   J Puig-Suari C Turner and W Ahlgren 223Development of the standard CubeSat deployer and a CubeSat class PicoSatellite,\224 in Aerospace Conference 2001 IEEE Proceedings  vol 1 2001   V Galysh 223Katysat radio board rev 2.4,\224 January 2008   S Asundi M Mahin V Nagabhushan T Lin and N Fitz-Coy 223Composite and PCB Based Implementations of a Solar Panel Design for SwampSat,\224 in SmallSat Conference  2010   V Galysh 223Varta poli\003explf 503759 d.\224   M Shuster and S Oh 223Three-axis attitude determination from vector observations,\224 Journal of Guidance and Control  vol 4 no 1 pp 70\22677 1981   J Murrell 223Precision attitude determination for multimission spacecraft,\224 in Guidance and Control Conference Palo Alto Calif August 7-9 1978 Technical Papers.\050A78-50159 22-01\051 New York American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Inc 1978 p 7087  1978   R Kalman 223A new approach to linear 002ltering and prediction problems,\224 Journal of Basic Engineering  vol 82 no 1 pp 35\22645 1960   R Kalman and R Bucy 223New results in linear 002ltering and prediction theory,\224 Random Processes  1973 B IOGRAPHY  Sharan Asundi is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Aerospace Science Engineering at Tuskegee University He graduated with a MS and PhD in Aerospace Engineering from University of Florida in 2011 under the guidance of Dr Norman Fitz-Coy His research interests include design of autonomous ground and space systems spacecraft attitude determination and estimation vehicle health monitoring and design of small satellite mission operations Norman G Fitz-Coy is an Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida in Gainesville He is the Director of the Advanced Space Technologies Research and Engineering Center 050ASTREC\051 a National Science Foundation 050NSF\051 Industry/University Cooperative Research Center Dr FitzCoy's research efforts address the dynamics and controls of multi-degree-of-freedom 050M-DOF\051 systems with emphasis on space appications One of the current research interests is attitude control of small satellites 050less than 10 kg in mass\051 His research team has developed the world's smallest control moment gyroscopes and these will be 003ight veri\002ed the upcoming UF CubeSat mission SwampSat 14 


Integrating Context-Awareness and Trustworthiness in IoT Descriptions 1168 Kaiyu Wan and Vangalur Alagar Building Smart M2M Applications Using the WuKong Profile Framework 1175 Kwei-Jay Lin, Neils Reijers, Yu-Chung Wang, Chi-Sheng Shih, and Jane Y. Hsu A Human Trajectory Estimate Based on Individual Mobility Pattern Library 1181 Yang Yang, Bowen Du, and Xiao Jiang The Research on Monitoring of Discrete Manufacturing Process Based on Internet of Things 1186 Liuyin Yuan, Yu Guo, Jiajun Jiang, and Liyun Nian Research on the Framework of Internet of Things in Manufacturing for Aircraft Large Components Assembly Site 1192 Jihong Liu and Jie Yu Technical State Monitoring and Evaluation of Aerospace Product Manufacturing Workshop Based on Internet of Things 1197 Jihong Liu and Wenting Xu Temperature Map Recovery Based on Compressive Sensing for Large-Scale Wireless Sensor Networks 1202 Xuanxuan Wu, Cheng-Long Chuang, and Joe-Air Jiang Interoperability Repository System for the Internet-of-Things 1207 Pedro MalÛ, Tiago Teixeira, Bruno Almeida, and M·rcio Mateus Discussion on Key Technologies in Forestry Fundamental Scientific Information Cloud Service Platform 1216 Mubo Zhang, Zhongming Li, and Fan Li Symposium on Frontiers of Cyber-Physical-Social Computing SymCPS Leveraging Social Network APIs for Enhancing Smartphone Apps: An Example of VoIP App 1219 Shuchih Ernest Chang and Pin-Fan Lee Extending and Recompiling AADL for CPS Modeling 1225 Zhonghao Sun and Xingshe Zhou A Novel Frequency Hopping Scheme Based on Cognitive Radio for Aircraft 1231 Lei Zhidong and Zhang Xiaolin Modeling Effects of Physical Factors on Controller Area  Network in Cyber-physical Systems 1237 Bo Shen, Xingshe Zhou, and Ru Wang Detecting Flu Transmission by Social Sensor in China 1242 Jiangmiao Huang, Hui Zhao, and Jie Zhang A Smart Cyber-physical Systems-Based Solution for Pest Control \(Work in Progress 1248 Farhad Mehdipour, Krishna Chaitanya Nunna, and Kazuaki J. Murakami 
xix 


A Hybrid Content-Based Filtering Approach: Recommending Microbloggers for Web-Based Communities 1254 Kejun Dong and Yi Shen Just-in-Time Social Cloud: Computational Social Platform to Guide People's Just-in-Time Decisions 1259 Kwan Hong Lee, Andrew Lippman, Alex S. Pentland, and Pattie Maes Towards a Hybrid Approach of Primitive Cognitive Network Process and K-Means Clustering for Social Network Analysis 1267 Chun Guan and Kevin Kam Fung Yuen A Compressive Sensing Based Secure Data Transmission Scheme 1272 Guorui Li and Ying Wang An IO Optimized Data Access Method in Distributed Key-Value Storage System 1276 Li Chao, Wu Guangjun, Wang Shupeng, and Li Yixi W e  K n o w  W h a t  Y o u  A r e A  U s e r  C l a s s i f i c a t i o n  B a s e d  o n  M o b i l e  D a t a                                                             1 2 8 2 Duan Hu, Fei Sun, Lai Tu, and Benxiong Huang E f f i c i e n t  S e c u r i t y  S o l u t i o n  f o r  I n f o r m a t i o n c e n t r i c  N e t w o r k i n g                                                                          1 2 9 0 Hasen Nicanfar, Peyman TalebiFard, Chunsheng Zhu, and Victor C.M. Leung Towards Dynamic Resource Provisioning for Traffic Mining Service Cloud 1296 Jianjun Yu and Tongyu Zhu Leading Users Detecting Model in Professional Community Question Answering Services 1302 Siqi Song, Ye Tian, Wenwen Han, Xirong Que, and Wendong Wang A Moving Foreground Expansion Method Based on the Gaussian Distribution 1308 Yanhua Li, Wei Li, and Qi Xiang A Hybrid Emotion Recognition on Android Smart Phones 1313 Weishan Zhang, Xin Meng, Qinghua Lu, Yuan Rao, and Jiehan Zhou Multi-view Approach for Modeling Aerospace Cyber-physical Systems 1319 Lichen Zhang EigenCrime: An Algorithm for Criminal Network Mining Based on Trusted Computing 1325 Shujun Cai, Jiangnan Xia, Keyi Sun, and Zhen Wang A Task-Attribute-Based Workflow Access Control Model 1330 Yi Liu, Ke Xu, and Junde Song GreenBicycling: A Smartphone-Based Public Bicycle Sharing System for Healthy Life 1335 Yifan Zhao, Longbiao Chen, Chao Teng, Shijian Li, and Gang Pan Multi-step Sensor Scheduling for Energy-Efficient High-Accuracy Collaborative Target Tracking in Wireless Sensor Networks 1341 Biao Song, Wendong Xiao, and Zhaohui Zhang xx  


International Workshop on Vehicular Sensor and Ad-Hoc Networks \(VeSAN 2013 Toward Optimal Additive Noise Distribution for Privacy Protection in Mobile Statistics Aggregation 1346 Hao Zhang, Yonggang Wen, Honggang Hu, and Nenghai Yu Performance Analysis of a Hierarchical Structured VANET 1352 Wanting Zhu, Qing Zhang, and A.C.M. Fong Multilevel Cluster-Based Information Fusion in Vehicle Ad Hoc Networks 1357 Weicheng Zhao, Linjuan Zhang, Wanting Zhu, and Yanqi Zhao PSFCS: Robust Emergency Communications Supporting High-Mobility Based on WiMAX MMR Networks 1363 Wen-Kang Jia, Chia-Yao Chen, and Yaw-Chung Chen International Workshop on Next Topics for Green Communications and Computing \(GreenCom-Next 2013 On Energy Efficiency Data Access and Backup for Cloud Computing Networks 1369 Yeanf-Fu Wen A Model to Analyze the Energy Savings of Base Station Sleep Mode in LTE HetNets 1375 Paolo Dini, Marco Miozzo, Nicola Bui, and Nicola Baldo Soft Timing Synchronization Algorithm for CPM Signals 1381 Xiangchao Zhou, Rui Xue, Danfeng Zhao, and Fu Fang Secure Framework for the Return Routability Procedure in MIPv6 1386 Faisal Al Hawi, Chan Yeob Yeun, and Khaled Salah An Energy Efficient Cache Design for Multi-core Processors 1392 Cao Xiangrong and Zhang Xiaolin Analysis Method of Energy for C Source Program and Its Application 1397 Yang Yuechuan, Zeng Guosun, Ding Chunling, and Wang Wei Simulating Stochastic Activation Functions 1403 Hanno Hildmann, Sebastien Nicolas, and Fabrice Saffre Power-Efficient Virtual Machine Placement and Migration in Data Centers 1408 Shuo Fang, Renuga Kanagavelu, Bu-Sung Lee, Chuan Heng Foh, and Khin Mi Mi Aung Probabilistic Modeling during Power Estimation for Mixed Polarity Reed-Muller Logic Circuits 1414 Xiang Wang, Ying Lu, Yi Zhang, Zexi Zhao, Tongsheng Xia, Jishun Cui, and Limin Xiao Ant-Colony Based Heuristics to Minimize Power and Delay in the Internet 1419 Shankar Raman, Gaurav Raina, Hanno Hildmann, and Fabrice Saffre Materialization of a Comprehensive Digital City with CityMaker and ArcGIS 1424 Mingzhu Deng, Guangming Liu, and Yuran Hu 
xxi 


iThings/CPSCom 2013 Workshops International Workshop on Biometric Recognition and Its Applications \(BR&A 2013 A New Method of Designing High-Power Electroplating Power Supply 1429 Yihong He and Shuiyong Yu The Study of Fusion Image Block and Sparse Representation Classification in Disguised Face Recognition 1434 Gan Junying, Liu Dan, Zeng Junying, and Tian fengxia SMT Components Model Inspection Based on Characters Image Matching and Verification 1438 Bing Luo, Yuehua Gao, Zhongyu Sun, and Sufang Zhao The Manipulation of Chaotic Synchronization Quality Based on VCSEL with Optical Feedback 1442 Dongzhou Zhong Fast Wavelet Thresholding Algorithms for Face Image Inpainting 1445 Yibin Yu, Jinguo Cao, Yaofang Tang, and JunYing Gan Multispectral Palmprint Recognition Using Score-Level Fusion 1450 Yibin Yu, Yaofang Tang, Jinguo Cao, and JunYing Gan Encryption Node Design in Internet of Things Based on Fingerprint Features and CC2530 1454 Zeng Bohan, Wang Xu, Zhou Kaili, and Zhao Xueyuan Facial Expression Recognition Based on Local Binary Pattern and Gradient Directional Pattern 1458 Wenjin Chu Design of Intelligent Inducing Switch 1463 Yang Zhao and Fengxia Tian International Workshop on Cyber Physical Society Information Processing \(CPSIP 2013 Identify Online Fraudster with Extended Cellular Automata 1467 Ji Li and Yueliang Xiao Harmonization of Cyber-physical Society 1473 Alexander Abramovich and Rashid Khunagov Influence Analyzing and Modeling of High Frequency Forwarding Microblogs 1479 Shangbo Zhou, Wei Wang, Jie Luo, Li Wan, and Yao Zhang Requirement Specification for Transportation Cyber Physical Systems 1486 Lichen Zhang Integration-Oriented Modeling of Cyber-physical Interactive Process 1492 Tao Guan and Gang Yang 
xxii 


Web-of-Things Framework for WeChat 1496 Huang Yitong, Lai Xiaozheng, Dai Bingpei, and Chen Qinyi International Workshop on Cyberspace Security and Information Countermeasures \(CS&IC 2013 Simulation Experiment Research of Cyberspace Confront Effectiveness Evaluation 1501 Yu Zhang, Chen Shansong, and Xie Deping Technology of Situation Awareness Based on Radar Network in Cyberspace 1505 Xun Yang, Wei Shan, and Liu Jia Space Information Security and Cyberspace Defense Technology 1509 Su Kang, Dong Qiaozhong, and Zhu WeiQiang International Workshop on Connected Vehicles and Vehicular Networks \(CV2N 2013 Real-Time Vehicle Route Guidance Based on Connected Vehicles 1512 Daxin Tian, Yong Yuan, Jianshan Zhou, Yunpeng Wang, Guangquan Lu, and Haiying Xia A Novel Two-Timer-Based Broadcast Routing Algorithm for Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks 1518 Song Fang and Tao Luo Research of Vehicle Counting Based on DBSCAN in Video Analysis 1523 Dayang Sun, Binbin Li, and Zhihong Qian A Self-Adaptive V2V Communication System with DSRC 1528 Daxin Tian, Hao Luo, Jianshan Zhou, Yunpeng Wang, Guizhen Yu, and HaiyingXia International Workshop on Electromagnetic Characteristics of Target and Environment \(ECTE 2013 SAR Segmentation and Recognition Based SCM 1533 Liping Hu and Xiaoyu Xing EM Scattering Analysis of Complex Target Coated with Plasma by Conformal SO-FDTD Method 1538 Hao-Chuan Deng, Xiao Wei, and Hong-Cheng Yin SAR RAW Data Simulation by Electromagnetic Computation in Frequency Domain 1542 Xupu Geng, Chunzhu Dong, Hongcheng Yin, and Guoqing Zhu Precession and Structural Parameters Estimation of the Cone-Shaped Target Based on the Profile Length 1545 Jing Huang, Chao Ning, and Zhihe Xiao Terahertz Gaussian Beam Scattering by a Conducting Sphere 1550 Liangsheng Li and Hongcheng Yin Reshaped Window Iterative Super-Resolution Imaging Algorithm 1554 Sheng Li, Liangsheng Li, and Hongcheng Yin Study on the influential factors of radar target RCS in resonance region 1557 Liang Man, Xiao Wei, and Zhihe Xiao 
xxiii 


A New Method for Estimating Radar Profile Length of a Cone Target 1561 Chao Ning, Jing Huang, Chao Gao, and Yong Zhu The Feature Extraction of Time-Frequency Image Based on Frequency Diversity 1566 Jing Sheng, Zhihe Xiao, and Jing Huang Characteristic Study of Target Micro-motion Based on the Wavelet Analysis 1571 Yuguang Tian, Chao Ning, and Xiangyang Zhang The Decorrelation Time Accumulation Restrain Method for Sea Clutter Spike 1576 Xujin Yuan, Yong Chen, Chao Wang, and Hongcheng Yin The Radar Echo Simulation of Moving Targets Based on HRRP 1580 Tao Zhao, Chun-Zhu Dong, Hong-Mei Ren, and Hong-Cheng Yin A Novel Method for Generating Planar Wave Based on Dielectric Gratings 1584 Dai Fei, Cheng Qiping, and Yue Hui Application of Terahertz Technology on RCS Measurement 1587 Wang Xiaobing, Huang Xin, Wu Yajun, Dai Fei, and Li Li Typical Target RCS Reduction Using Structural Radar Absorbing Material 1591 Yongfeng Wang and Kainan Qi International Workshop on Electromagnetic Detection and Identification \(EDI 2013 Error Analysis in Calculating RCS Using GRECO Method 1594 Zhi Hua Cheng, Yong Jun Xie, Xue Mei Wang, Yu Ru Mao, and Xiao Dong Ma Placement Optimization of Vehicular Antenna Using Particle Swarm Optimization 1597 Yu-Ru Mao, Yong-Jun Xie, Zhi-Hua Cheng, Xue-Mei Wang, and Xiao-Dong Ma A Novel Loss Compensated Multipath Power Divider for Frequency Synthesizer 1600 Tongfei Yu, Jungang Miao, Yan Xie, Baohua Yang, and Xianxun Yao An Approach for Extrapolating Far Field Radar Cross-Section from Near Field Measurement 1604 Gao Chao, Yuan Xiaofeng, and Bai Yang Implementation of the Digital Correlation Unit for Synthetic Aperture Interferometric Radiometer 1608 Xianxun Yao, Cheng Zheng, Baohua Yang, Jin Zhang, and Jungang Miao Design Procedures and Considerations of FOD Detection Millimeter-Wave FMCW Radar 1612 Jin Zhang, Cheng Zheng, Baohua Yang, Xianxun Yao, and Jungang Miao Exact Design of a Ka Band H-Plane Inductance Diaphragm Waveguide Band-Pass Filter 1618 Yong Fu, Baohua Yang, and Jungang Miao The Compact Microstrip Bandstop Filter Using Equal Width Open Stub 1622 Bao-Hua Yang, Ghulam Mehdi, Jin Zhang, Tong-fei Yu, Xian-xun Yao, and Jungang Miao 
xxiv 


The Design and Simulation of Hardware Architecture of the Fast and On-Site Assessing System of Scattering Characteristics of Stealth Aircraft Based on Simulink 1626 Hong Tao and Song Dan Second International Workshop on Engineering Pervasive Service Systems \(EPS 2013 Food Image Recognition Using Pervasive Cloud Computing 1631 Pengcheng Duan, Wenshan Wang, Weishan Zhang, Faming Gong, Peiying Zhang and Yuan Rao An Approach of Semantic Similarity by Combining HowNet and Cilin 1638 Peiying Zhang, Zhanshan Zhang, and Weishan Zhang Reconstruction of 3D Maps for 2D Satellite Images 1644 Lianzhang Zhu, Xuexing Zheng, and Pengfei Li Component-Based Cloud Computing Service Architecture for Measurement System 1650 Chao Liu, Qingsong Yu, Tianao Zhang, and Zhongwen Guo Second International Workshop on Energy and Wireless Sensors  \(e-WiSe 2013 Design Optimization of Electromagnetic MEMS Energy Harvester with Serpentine Coil 1656 Yuji Tanaka, Takayuki Fujita, Tatsuya Kotoge, Kohei Yamaguchi, Koji Sonoda Kensuke Kanda, and Kazusuke Maenaka Experimental Study of a Passive Impedance Matching Interface Based on a Centimeter-Size High Inductance Coil for Practically Enhanced Piezoelectric Energy Harvester Performance at Low Frequency 1659 Alessandro Giuliano and Meiling Zhu SPICE Modeling of Piezoelectric Energy Harvesting Device Utilizing Stress Influence 1662 Koji Sonoda, Takayuki Fujita, Kensuke Kanda, Kazusuke Maenaka, Hidenori Katsumura Masaya Tamura, and Hiroshi Kagata Modeling, Validation and Design Analyses of a Piezoelectric Cymbal Transducer for Non-resonant Energy Harvesting 1665 Alice Daniels, Alessandro Giuliano, Meiling Zhu, and Ashutosh Tiwari Towards Energy Autonomy of Wireless Sensors in Aeronautics Applications SMARTER Collaborative Project 1668 Marise Bafleur and Jean-Marie Dilhac 
xxv 


International Workshop on Gas Sensors and Gas-Sensing Platforms \(GS&GSP 2013 A Novel Surface Acoustic Wave Sensor for Optical Lens Surface Dirt Detection 1673 Jiuling Liu, Minghua Liu, Wen Wang, and Shitang He Electrical Sensoring Characteristics of Pseudo-LFE Sensors with Different Single Crystals 1676 Zhitian Zhang, Chao Zhang, Wenyan Wang, Yan Liu, and Tingfeng Ma Investigation of Polymer-Coated Film Bulk Acoustic Wave Resonator for Acetone Vapor Detection 1680 Jingjing Wang and Da Chen Polyaniline-Coated Surface Acoustic Wave Sensor for Humidity Detection 1685 Xiao Xie, Wen Wang, Shitang He, Ning Mu, and Yong Pan Effect of Facets of  Fe2O3 Nanostructures on Gas-Sensing Performance 1688 Jing Wang, Xiaoman Zhang, Weihong Xu, Liang Chen, Xingjiu Huang, and Jinhuai Liu Application and Development Trend of Gas Sensing Technology Based on Absorption Spectroscopy 1692 Zhenzhen Zhao, Fengchun Tian, and Shouqiong Liu Identification of Toxic VOC Pollutants Using FAIMS 1698 Youjiang Liu, Lehua Zhang, Hongwei Wang, Xiaotian Zhang, Chilai Chen Huanqin Wang, Deyi Kong, Mario A. Chavarria, and Juergen Brugger Detection of benzene series by two-dimensional  FAIMS technique 1702 Lehua Zhang, Youjiang Liu, Hongwei Wang, Chilai Chen, Huanqin Wang, Deyi Kong Xiaotian Zhang, Mario Chavarria, and Juergen Brugger Fabrication of Prototypal Nanomechanical Resonator Based on a Single Copper Nanowire 1706 Weihong Xu and Li-Feng Ge The SAW Gas Chromatograph and Its Applications in the Public Security 1710 Shitang He, Jiuling Liu, and Minghua Liu Theory of Lamb Wave Transducers and Their Applications for Gas and Liquid Sensing 1714 Li-Feng Ge Study of the Space Station On-Orbit Leak Detection Based on the Differential Pressure Gas Sensor 1718 Wei Sun, Rongxin Yan, Lichen Sun, Donghui Meng, Zheng Li, Haitao Guo, and Wenbin Li 
xxvi 


International Workshop on Human Body Communications and Biomedical Signal Processing \(HBC&BSP 2013 Pulse-Output Monitor Genetic Circuit of Breast Cancer Testing 1722 Xiang Wang, Guangqian Yuan, Xun Wang, and Zexi Zhao Elderly Gait Analysis and Assessment Based on Body Area Network 1729 Y.D.Xuan, Z. Zhao, Z. Fang, Z.H.Xu, F.M.Sun, D.L.Chen, L.D.Du, Y.M.Qian, H.Y.Hu and L.L.Tian Combined Motion and Region-Based 3D Tracking in Active Depth Image Sequence 1734 Xingyu Wu, Xia Mao, Lijiang Chen, and Angelo Compare Characteristic Optimization of Multilayer Dielectric for the Bloch-Surface-Wave Based Sensor 1740 Shuna Li, Jiansheng Liu, Zheng Zheng, Yuhang Wan, Weijing Kong, Sun Yu, and Shuna Li Facial Expression Recognition Based on t-SNE and AdaboostM2 1744 Jizheng Yi, Xia Mao, Yuli Xue, and Angelo Compare A Design of Security Module to Protect Program Execution in Embedded System 1750 Wang Xiang, Zhao Zexi, Lu Ying, and Zhang Yi Improved P-T Algorithm Applied to a Wearable Integrated Physiological Parameters System 1756 Z.H.Xu, Z. Fang, Z. Zhao, X.X.Chen, D.L.Chen, F.M.Sun, L.D.Du, Y.M.Qian, H.Y.Hui and L.L.Tian Iterative Threshold Selection for TOA Estimation of IR-UWB System 1763 Xiang Wang, Bo Yin, Ying Lu, Bin Xu, Pei Du, and Limin Xiao A Novel Alternative Exponent-Weighted Fuzzy C-Means Algorithm 1767 Renhao Fan, Xiang Wang, and Jordi Madrenas A Wireless ZigBee Router with P-H-T Sensing for Health Monitoring 1773 Z. Fang, F. M. Sun, J. Tan, and Z. Zhao A Whole Integrated System for Detection of Neural Signal and Wireless Transmission 1779 Dang Hua, Qu Ruoyuan, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, and Wang Xinghua Research on the Monitoring and Controlling Model of SIP Network 1784 Liang Zhang, Zhaoxin Zhang, Xu Cui, and Dan Liu Saliency-Based Feature Learning for No-Reference Image Quality Assessment 1790 Zhang Hong, Feng Ren, and Yuan Ding A Compensated Technique for 2.5-GHz Ring-Oscillator-Based PLL used in Wireless Transmission 1795 Dang Hua, Liu Zicheng, Gui Xiaoyan, and Zhong Shunan Speech Synthesis Research Based on EGG 1799 Lijiang Chen, Xia Mao, Pengfei Wei, and Angelo Compare A Temperature Insensitive Ring Oscillator for Low Power RF Communications 1804 Pilong Yang, Tongsheng Xia, Hongge Li, and Xiang Wang 
xxvii 


Low-Noise Biopotential Recording Circuit with Correlated Timeshare Sampling 1810 Hongge Li and Weidong Cao A No-Reference Quality Metric for Blur Image 1813 Zhang Taojia, Zhang Hong, and Yuan Ding Circuit Design of Analog Front-End for Neural Signal Detection 1817 Dang Hua, Zhang Lei, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, and Wang Xinghua A New Pedestrian Detect Method in Crowded Scenes 1820 Hou Xin, Zhang Hong, and Yuan Ding Design and Implementation of a Circuit System for Neural Signal Detection 1825 Dang Hua, Li Xiao, Chen Zhiming, Gui Xiaoyan, Wang Xinghua, and Zhong Shunan Design and Implementation of a CMOS 1Gsps 5bit Flash ADC with Offset Calibration 1829 Li Shiwen, Dang Hua, Gao Peng, Gui Xiaoyan, Chen Zhiming, Wang Xinghua and Zhong Shunan Spike Detection Based on Fractal Dimension 1834 Zhou Jiyang, Xu Shengwei, Lin Nansen, Wang Mixia, and Cai Xinxia A GPU-Accelerated Large-Scale Music Similarity Retrieval Method 1839 Limin Xiao, Yao Zheng, Wenqi Tang, Guangchao Yao, Li Ruan, and Xiang Wang Power Spectral Analysis of Acupoint Bioelectricity 1844 Quan Zhou, Nansen Lin, Shuping Gai, Jingjing Zhang, Lu Zhang, Wentao Shi Renhuan Yu, and Xinxia Caii Compressive Sensing of Neural Action Potentials by Designing Overcomplete Dictionaries 1848 Shuai Zhou, Bowei Dai, Yin Xiang, Shengwei Xu, Bingchen Zhang, Yilin Song Mixia Wang, and Xinxia Cai CloudDVMM: Distributed Virtual Machine Monitor for Cloud Computing 1853 Li Ruan, Jinbin Peng, Limin Xiao, and Xiang Wang Metadata-Intensive I/O Performance Optimization by Merging Read/Write Requests 1859 Li Ruan, Qimeng Wu, Limin Xiao, Ke Xie, and Xiang Wang International Workshop on Machine-to-Machine Communication \(IWMMC 2013 Angle of Arrival Estimation for Passive UHF RFID Tag Backscatter Signal 1865 Meng-Chang Hua, Guo-Chen Peng, Yan-Jun Lai, and Hsin-Chin Liu Mobile IMS Integration of the Internet of Things in Ecosystem 1870 Han-Chuan Hsieh, Jiann-Liang Chen, Ing-Yi Chen, and Sy-Yen Kuo Design of Gateway for Monitoring System in IoT Networks 1876 Ji-De Huang and Han-Chuan Hsieh Dependable Architecture of RFID Middleware on Networked RFID Systems 1881 Yung-Li Hu, Wei-Bing Su, Yennun Huang, Ing-Yi Chen, and Sy-Yen Kuo 
xxviii 


The Design and Implementation of the Front-End Software for the Telemetry and Telecontrol System of Satellite 1885 Zhao Qi and Ma Li Internet of Things for Special Materials Transportation Vehicles 1891 Li Shengguang, Tan Lin, Zhu Yuanshuo, and Zhang Rucai Performance Analysis of COMPASS for the Asia-Pacific Region 1895 Hangyu Huo, Xiaolin Zhang, and Canhui Chen International Workshop on Localization Technology and Location-Based Services \(LTLS 2013 A KNN Indoor Positioning Algorithm That Is Weighted by the Membership of Fuzzy Set 1899 Jiankun Yu and Jianye Liu Building Location-Based Service Based on Social Network API: An Example of Check-In App 1904 Pin-Fan Lee and Shuchih Ernest Chang Prioritizing the Data in the Target-Tracking Wireless Sensor Networks 1910 Dan Xu, Xiaojiang Chen, Xiaoyan Yin, Lvju Wang, Hao Chen, Yuan Zhang, and Dingyi Fang DLF: Target Detection and Localization in Wireless Network 1916 Tianzhang Xing, Dingyi Fang, Xiaojiang Chen, Liqiong Chang, and Yuhui Ren Bandwidth Reservation for Target Tracking in Region-Base Wireless Sensor Networks 1922 Xiaoyan Yin, Dingyi Fang, Xiaojiang Chen, Hao Chen, and Wei Wei Fusion Estimation Based on UKF for Indoor RFID Tracking 1928 Xue-bo Jin International Workshop on New Media and Computer Vision for Smart City \(NMCV4SC 2013 Facile Analysis of Smartphone Comics 1932 Beili Qiu Research on Production of Regional Animation Style Based on Computer Graphic Rendering 1935 Jingjing Chen, Yi Lin, Kexuan Ma, and Yue Liu A Blind Demodulation Algorithm for MFSK Signals Using STFT-Radon-Wavelet Transform 1940 Zhang Guoyi, Qi Xinglong, Zhang Xuzhou, and Lin Caiyong A Novel Method to Remove Eye-Blink Artifacts Based on Correlation Using ICA 1946 Hengsong Sheng and Hongjun Tian Virtual Assembly, Maintenance and Training System Based on the Virtual - Real Fusion Technology 1949 Ning Wang and Yue Qi 
xxix 


International Workshop on Optical Characteristics and Applications \(OC&A 2013 A New Infrared Sensor Model Based on Imaging System Test Parameter 1953 Zheng Liu, Hong-xia Mao, Ying-hong Dai, and Jing-li Wu Mixed Norm-Based Image Restoration Using Neural Network 1957 Yuan-nan Xu, Jing Wang, and Yan-bing Dong Simulation and Analysis of Turbulent Optical Wavefront Based on Zernike Polynomials 1962 Yan Chen, Shu-hua Wang, Yuan-nan Xu, and Yan-bing Dong Study on the Interaction of Optical Field and Transverse Acoustic Mode in Silicon Optical Fibers 1967 Jing Wang, Yuan-nan Xu, and Yan-bing Dong Testing Technology of Infrared Point Source Target Optical Axis 1972 Yue Peng and Hao Lu Human Segmentation in Infrared Videos Using Markov Random Field 1976 Wenjia Yang, Xiaodan Xie, Zhi Chai, and Yapeng Li Third IEEE International Workshop on Sensing, Networking and Computing with Smartphones \(PhoneCom 2013 SmartProbe: A Bottleneck Capacity Estimation Tool for Smartphones 1980 Francesco Disperati, Dario Grassini, Enrico Gregori, Alessandro Improta Luciano Lenzini, Davide Pellegrino, and Nilo Redini CANDIS: Heterogenous Mobile Cloud Framework and Energy Cost-Aware Scheduling 1986 Sebastian Schildt, Felix B¸sching, Enrico Jˆrns, and Lars Wolf An Experimental Study on Wireless Magnetic Communication with Smart Phone Using a MEMS Magnetometer 1992 Jiabo Wang and Xi Chen PhoneJoule: An Energy Management System for Android-Based Smartphones 1996 Xiaojing Liu, Fangwei Ding, Jie Li, Haifeng Liu, Zhuo Yang, Juan Chen, and Feng Xia KeyGraph-Based Social Network Generation for Mobile Context Sharing 2002 Myeong-Chun Lee, Young-Seol Lee, and Sung-Bae Cho Cyber-physical Directory: A Dynamic Visualization of Social Media Data 2007 Jean-Loup Lamothe, James She, and Ming Cheung 
xxx 


International Workshop on Sensor Data Processing and Integration \(SDPI 2013 Capturing, Calculating, and Disseminating Real-Time CO2 Emissions and CO2 Flux Measurements via Twitter in a Smart City 2013 Laurie Butgereit and Alecia Nickless Freshness-Aware Sensor Mashups Based on Data Services 2018 Guiling Wang and Feng Zhang A Method of Sensor Data Services Query in Emergency Management 2024 Xin Chen, Yanbo Han, Yongshan Wei, Feng Zhang, and Yan Wen A Sensory-Data-Hosting Oriented Scheduling Strategy on Virtual Machine 2029 Xiang Li and Yong Jiang International Workshop on Software Engineering for Internet of Things-Based Applications \(SeIoTA 2013 From the Internet of Things to Trusted Apps for Things 2037 Christian Prehofer A Profile for Step Data Transmission Based on Bluetooth Low Energy 2043 Youcong Ni, Sun Cong, Zhao Ting, Peng Ye, Chunyan Wang, and Luo Zeng Exception Handling in Service-Oriented Software: A Survey 2048 Xue Tong, Ying Shi, and Wu Qing On the Application of the Internet of Things in the Field of Medical and Health Care 2053 Fang Hu, Dan Xie, and Shaowu Shen Hierarchical RBAC Model with Alpha Factor in the Water Supply Pipeline Network Information System 2059 Wu Ting, Yuan Tianliang, and Yu Long Modeling Concern of Online Auction System with SA-CDL 2063 Linlin Zhang, Kai Zhao, Zhenhong Jia, and Youcong Ni The Research on Interactive Exhibition Technology of Digital Museum Resources 2067 Ning Wang and Xukun Shen International Workshop on Sensor Networks and Data Communications Security \(SNDCS 2013 Integrity Protection and Attestation of Security Critical Executions on Virtualized Platform in Cloud Computing Environment 2071 Bingyu Zou and Huanguo Zhang A Fuzzing Framework Based on Symbolic Execution and Combinatorial Testing 2076 Jian Yang, Huanguo Zhang, and Jianming Fu Dynamic Knowledge Repository-Based Security Auxiliary System of User Behavior 2081 Fan Yang, Jinxia Wu, Shanyu Tang, and Huanguo Zhang 
xxxi 


Research on a New Mathematic Description for Fingerprint Identification 2085 Zhao Ma, Shanyu Tang, Liping Zhang, Linchen Yu, and Sifa Zhang Robust and Efficient Authentication Protocol Based on Elliptic Curve Cryptography for Smart Grids 2089 Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, Yijing Jiang, and Zhao Ma De Bruijn Graph-Based Whole-Genomic Sequence Assembly Algorithms and Applications 2094 Xiaojun Kang, Shanyu Tang, Yongge Ma, Ruixiang Liu, and Yaping Wang Review of Digital Watermarking for 2D-Vector Map 2098 Jinxia Wu, Fan Yang, and Chonglong Wu Real-Time Covert VoIP Communications over Smart Grids by Using AES-Based Audio Steganography 2102 Yijing Jiang, Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, and Zhangbing Zhou Improving Performance of E-Government System from the User Perspective 2108 Hang Zhang, Sifa Zhang, Muzhou Xiong, and Shanyu Tang ECC-Based Authenticated Key Agreement Protocol with Privacy Protection for VoIP Communications 2114 Shaohui Zhu, Fan Yang, Liping Zhang, Shanyu Tang, and J. Li Establishment of Security Levels in Trusted Cloud Computing Platforms 2119 Fan Yang, Li Pan, Muzhou Xiong, and Shanyu Tang Efficient Divisible E-Cash in the Standard Model 2123 Jiangxiao Zhang, Zhoujun Li, Hua Guo, and Chang Xu International Workshop on Secure Smart Objects \(SSO 2013 Towards a Modular and Lightweight Model for Android Development Platforms 2129 Mussab Zneika, Hasan Loulou, Fatiha Houacine, and Samia Bouzefrane Towards a Secure Identity Management in Smartphone Environments 2133 Maryline Laurent, Samia Bouzefrane, and Christophe Kiennert Third International Workshop on Trends and Future of Web Science \(TFWS 2013 Extracting Protein Terminologies in Literatures 2136 Jangwon Gim, Donald J. Kim, Myunggwon Hwang, Sa-kwang Song, Do-Heon Jeong and Hanmin Jung Author Name Disambiguation in Technology Trend Analysis Using SVM and Random Forests and Novel Topic Based Features 2141 Sebastian Kastner, Sung-Pil Choi, and Hanmin Jung Research on Quantum-Bit Error Correction Coding for Smart Grid Substation 2145 Xin Miao and Xi Chen 
xxxii 


Fourth International Workshop on Universal User Modeling and Applications \(UUMA 2013 The Research of MEICSP Model through a REST Web Service 2148 Zhilei Huang, Lingyu Xu, and Yang Liu A Text Association Rules Mining Method Based on Concept Algebra 2153 Feiyue Ye, Jiannan Xiong, and Lingyu Xu Research and Application of the Intelligent Flow 2159 Yang Liu, Lingyu Xu, Liang Chen, and Fei Zhong Application of Hybrid MPI+TBB Parallel Programming Model for Traveling Salesman Problem 2164 Jinke Zhu and Qing Li Data Deduplication Cluster Based on Similarity-Locality Approach 2168 Xingyu Zhang and Jian Zhang The Application of the Knowledge Representation Based on Concept Algebra in the Knowledge Management System of Petroleum Enterprise 2173 Hongjie Duan, Shanpeng Wu, and Feiyue Ye A New Reliable Hybrid Algorithm for Shortening the Expanding Range of Interval 2178 Cheng Chen and Yongmei Lei A Novel Data Encryption in HDFS 2183 Thanh Cuong Nguyen, Wenfeng Shen, Jiwei Jiang, and Weimin Xu The Dynamically Efficient Mechanism of HDFS Data Prefetching 2188 Shaochun Wu, Guobing Zou, Honghao Zhu, Xiang Shuai, Liang Chen, and Bofeng Zhang Multi-granularity Recommendation Based on Ontology User Model 2194 Jianxing Zheng, Bofeng Zhang, and Guobing Zou Friend Recommendation Based on the Similarity of Micro-blog User Model 2200 Fan Tang, Bofeng Zhang, Jianxing Zheng, and Yajun Gu The Research of Image Detail Enhancement Algorithm with Laplacian Pyramid 2205 Yanwen Teng, Fuyan Liu, and Ruoyu Wu Information Gain with Weight Based Decision Tree for the Employment Forecasting of Undergraduates 2210 Yue Liu, Lingjie Hu, Fei Yan, and Bofeng Zhang A User Model-Based Resource Scheduling Framework 2214 Guannan Hu, Wenhao Zhu, Kangkang Niu, and Wu Zhang A Novel Method of Adopting Graph Reduction for Resource Management in Parallel Computing Model 2218 Shen Chao and Tong Weiqin Sentiment Classification for Topical Chinese Microblog Based on Sentences' Relations 2221 Kang Wu, Bofeng Zhang, Jianxing Zheng, and Haidong Yao An Anomaly Intrusion Detection Method Based on PageRank Algorithm 2226 Quan Qian, Jianyu Li, Jing Cai, Rui Zhang, and Mingjun Xin 
xxxiii 


Distributed File System and Classification for Small Images 2231 Shaojian Zhuo, Xing Wu, Wu Zhang, Xing Wu, and Wanchun Dou The Possibility of Normal Gait Analysis Based on a Smart Phone for Healthcare 2235 Susu Jiang, Bofeng Zhang, Guobing Zou, and Daming Wei IoT/CPS Demo and Exhibition Mo-Fi: Discovering Human Presence Activity with Smartphones using Non-intrusive Wi-Fi Monitors 2241 Weijun Qin, Hongsong Zhu, Jiadi Zhang, and Bo Li Towards a Pervasive Cloud Computing Based Food Image Recognition 2243 Wenshan Wang, Pengcheng Duan, Weishan Zhang, Faming Gong, Peiying Zhang and Yuan Rao Wireless IoT Platform Based on SDR Technology 2245 Yong Hua Lin, Qing Wang, Jun Song Wang, Ling Shao, and Jianbin Tang Join the Workshop Better with Telepresence Capturer 2247 Pin Tao, Lixin Feng, and Minxi Yu InSciTe Adaptive: R&D Decision Support System for Strategic Foresight 2249 Jangwon Gim, Do-Heon Jeong, Myunggwon Hwang, Sung-Pil Choi, Donald J. Kim Seungwoo Lee, Sa-kwang Song, and Hanmin Jung Author Index 2251 
xxxiv 


FrA6 \226 Privacy and Big Data Visitor Center   Chair Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois  Organizer\(s Duchi, John University of California, Berkeley  Oh, Sewoong University of Illinois Viswanath, Pramod University of Illinois  Local Privacy and Statistical Minimax Rates 1592  Duchi, John C University of California, Berkeley  Jordan, Michael I University of California, Berkeley  Wainwright, Martin J University of California, Berkeley  Differential Privacy, Equilibrium, and Efficient Allocation of Resources 1593  Roth, Aaron University of Pennsylvania  A Bayesian Method for Matching Tw o Similar Graphs without Seeds 1598  Pedarsani, Pedram 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Figueiredo, Daniel R Federal University of Rio de Janeiro  Grossglauser, Matthias 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Privacy as a Coordination Game 1608  Ghosh, Arpita Cornell University  Ligett, Katrina California Institute of Technology  De-Anonymizing Private Data by Matching Statistics 1616  Unnikrishnan, Jayakrishnan 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Movahedi Naini, Farid 311cole Polytechnique F\351d\351rale de Lausanne  Robust Subspace Iteration and Privacy-Preserving Spectral Analysis 1624  Hardt, Moritz IBM Research Almaden  Privacy-Utility Tradeoff und er Statistical Uncertainty 1627  Makhdoumi, Ali Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Fawaz, Nadia Technicolor   


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved Advanced Arrival Procedures with Active Abatement Potentials   9/23/10  32 Backup Slides 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Initial Approach Initial Investigations  Apache Solr/Lucene  Data Warehouse Evaluate Hadoop in the future 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Using SOLR Uncompress Track Information Messages To use with Solr  Transforming track messages from their  original schema to Solr required building a ìkey, valueî list using an XSTL  Queries made against this list of ìkey, valueî pairs Transformation Process  One day of data ~ 4.5 hours Once transformation complete search/query performance very good Geo spatial queries using  unique query language 


Copyright © 2009 Boeing. All rights reserved  Representation Aviation data is frequently represented in more than one form 


